Document of'
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3186-IPt
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
SECOND IDA CREDIT
TO
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
BANGLADESH
February 23, 1981
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
On October 16, 1980, GOB adjusted the Taka, downwards by 6%.
The Bangladesh Taka is now officially valued at 38.5 to the
Pound Sterling. As the Pound floats relative to the US Dollar
the Taka/US Dollar rate will be subject to change. The rate
below has been used throughout the report.
US$1           =   Tk 16.0
Tk 1           =   US$0.6250
Tk 1 million  =   US$62,500
ACRONYMS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BB       -   Bangladesh Bank
BJMC     -   Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BMR      -   Balancing, modernizing and rehabilitation
BSB      -   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSCIC    -   Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
BSRS     -   Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
DRC      -   Domestic Resource Cost
ECNEC    -   Executive Committee National Economic Council
EPB      -   Export Promotion Bureau
EPF      -   Equity Participation Fund
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
GOB      -   Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -   Investment Corporation of Bangladesh
IDB      -   Islamic Development Bank
IDBP     -   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IFIC     -   International Finance and Investment Co., Ltd.
IPC      -   Investment Promotion Corporation
ICP      -   Investment Corporation of Pakistan
KfW      -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NIT      -   National Investment Trust
NORAD    -   Norwegian Agency for Development
PICIC    -   Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
SCI      -   Small and Cottage Industries
SFYP     -   Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
XPL      -   Export Performance License
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) - July 1 - June 30
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB)   - July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.  INTRODUCTION .............................................  1
II.      SECTORAL  BACKGROUND  ...........                      ..........................                3
Economic  Envirorment  ..........                      ..........................               3
The Manufacturing Sector ..........................    4
Development  of  an  Industrial  Strategy  .....                            ..............      6
Industrial Finance . ......................................  11
III.       INSTITUTIONAL  ASPECTS  .........                      ..........................    14
Autonomy  ................................................    14
Management   ..............................................                                    15
Organization .............................................. 16
Operating  Strategy  and  Policies  .........................   17
Procedures  and  Standards  ........                       .........................   19
IV.   RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS .                         .................................  20
Overall  Operations  ............                    ...................... ....    20
Resource  Mobilization  .                   ...................................   20
Resource  Allocation  .                 .....................................   21
Development Activities .                    ...................................  22
V.  PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT . .....................................  24
Background  ...............................................    24
Developments  FY76-FY80  .........                       .........................   25
Arrears  Collection  and  Control  ..........................   26
General   ................................................    29
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS . .......................................  29
Profitability  .........................................                                      29
Liquidity .........................................                                           31
Financial  Position  .   .....................................    31
Accounting and Auditing-,. .................................  32
This report was prepared by Messrs. D. Groves and D. Papavassiliou and
Ms. L. Likar following their Appraisal Mission to Bangladesh in July/August
1980.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continuation)
Page No.
VII.   PROSPECTS .........         ..........................  32
General Outlook  ...... ''I . ......                          32
Projected Operations ......................  33
Resource Requirements ......................                  34
Financial Projections ......................                  35
VIII.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ......................  36
Objectives ......................  36
Lending Scheme ......................  36
Terms and Conditions ......................  36
Project Benefits and Risk ........        ..............  38
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ......... ..................  38
SUPPORTING ANNEXES
1 Industrial Production FY70-FY79
2 Production of Selected Industrial Items FY70-FY79
3 Private Sector Investment FY77-FY79
4 Board of Directors
5 Staff Levels FY76-FY80
6 Organization Structure - as of June 30, 1980
7 Proposed Organization Structure FY81
8 Strategy Statement FY81-FY83
9 Operating Policies FY81-FY83
10 Comparative Interest Rate Structure October 16, 1980
11 Resource Position FY80
12 Summary of Operations FY72-FY80
13 Client Distribution of Loan Approvals FY72-FY80
14 Sectoral Distribution of Loan Approvals FY72-FY80
15 Geographical Distribution of Loan Approvals FY72-FY80
16 Partial Indicators of Sample Projects Approved FY76-FY80
17 Partial Indicators of Sample IDA Projects FY76-FY80
18 Trend of Arrears FY76-FY80
19 Sectoral Analysis of Arrears - June 30, 1980
20 Collection Performance FY77-FY80
21 Private Sector Collections FY80
22 Arrears under Litigation June 30, 1980
23 Private Sector Collection Targets FY81
24 Collection Targets FY81-FY83
25 Income Statements FY76-FY80
26 Balance Sheets FY76-FY80
27 Debt/Equity Ratios FY78-FY80
28 Operational Ratios FY76-FY80
29 Project Pipeline as of June 30, 1980



- lii -
SUPPORTING ANNEXES (continuation)
30 Projection Assumptions FY81-FY85
31  Projected Loan Operations FY81-FY85
32  Projected Resource Position FY81-FY85
33  Projected Income Statements FY81-FY85
34  Projected Balance Sheets FY81-FY85
35  Projected Cash Flow Position FY81-FY85
36  Projected Debt Service Coverage FY81-FY85
37  Projected Disbursement Schedule






BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
BASIC DATA
1.   Year Established                    October 31, 1972
2.   Ownership                            GOB - Tk 150.0 million
3.   Bank Group Assistance                Credit 632-BD
Signed:                           June 3, 1976
Effective:                        November 8, 1976
Amount:                           US$25.0 million
Committed:                        US$25.0 million
Disbursed (as of
January 31, 1980):              US$18.5 million
4.   Operations (Tk million)
Actual                 Projected
FY76  FY77  FY78  FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82
Approvals                       65    204   398   508  1,002  1,075  1,275
Commitments                     20     97   263   373    477  1,025  1,285
Disbursements                   88     45   116   281    352    725  1,030
5.   Financial Performance
Profit as % of average
total assets                 2.2   2.0   2.0   2.1   2.0    2.6   2.3
Profit as % of Share-
holders' Funds               4.5   3.2   4.6   4.8   9.2   13.0  10.8
Provision % of Port-
folio                        9.2  10.5  11.5  12.1   9.9    8.9   8.0
6.   Financial Position
Total Assets (Tk billion)    1.5   1.8   2.0   2.3   2.8    3.2   4.2
Debt/Equity Ratio               1.2   3.1   5.1   5.4   4.7    5.8   4.7
7.   Interest Rates
Local Currency Loans                                     12.0   14.0
Foreign Currency Loans                                   11.5   14.0
Savings - Deposit Rates                                  11.25  15.0
Penalty Rates                                             2.0    4.0



I



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Under its Second Five Year Plan (SFYP; FY81-FY85) the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) is projecting an increased participation by the private
sector in the industrial development of the country. To assist the private
sector in this participation, GOB has requested an IDA credit to provide
part of the necessary foreign exchange. GOB proposes to channel these funds
to public and private sector units in the industrial sector through the
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB). This report recommends an IDA credit of
SDR 40.2 million (US$50.0 million) with SDR 40.0 million (US$49.75 million)
for subloans and SDR 0.2 million (US$0.25 million) for technical services
to carry out subsectoral reviews.
1.02      BSB was established in December 1971 to take over the assets and
liabilities of the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (ID]BP) in Bangladesh
(including those of the Equity Participation Fund managed by IDBP). Between
December 1971 and October 1972, BSB was known as the Industrial Development
Bank of Bangladesh. BSB was formally established by Presidential Order on
October 31, 1972. Under its Ordier, BSB's principal objective is to provide
financial assistance to industrial concerns in the public and private sectors
of Bangladesh.
1.03      When BSB was first appraised by IDA in March 1975, tlhe mission
reported that BSB has serious deficiencies in almost every area of its opera-
tions, particularly in the area of arrears with 97% of its portfolio affected
by arrears. However, in order to assist industrial development and to initiate
measures to restore BSB to creditworthiness over a period of, say, 5 years, it
was proposed to provide a credit: to BSB. The measures to upgrade BSB's
operations included: organizational and management restructuring; strength-
ening of staff capabilities; improvement of operation standards, particularly
in the areas of appraisal and end-use; strengthening of BSB's debt/equity
structure; and improving BSB's debt servicing capabilities.
1.04        Through close cooperation and coordination with the Asian Devel-
opment Bank (ADB) and other agencies, IDA's involvement with BSB since FY75
has seen a considerable improvement in BSB's institutional and operational
fabric, although in terms of the objectives set in 1975, progress has been
slower than anticipated. In the area of organisational changes, BSB is imple-
menting a phased restructuring of its departmental responsibilities to group
related functions together. In the area of management staffing, BSB recruited
senior officers to control the appraisal, end-use and accounting functions.
This action has been supplemented by closer Board supervision through an
increase in the number of experienced public and private sector directors.
The appointment of Economic and Accounting Systems Advisors under the credit
has resulted in considerable improvements in the standards of appraisal and
management information. Although the assignment of the expatriate economic



-2-
advisor finished in December 1978 with a large number of his recommendations
unimplemented, BSB has followed an implementation program (prepared by t: e
Economic Advisor) to complete the outstanding items. Further, wlhile the
quality of appraisals is still somewhat weak, BSB now addresses key issues,
such as sectoral capacity utilization and economic imspact, aspects previously
ignored. Under the guidance of the Accounting Advisor, revised systems and
procedures have been introduced into the area of loan accounting, which can
now provide the key control data necessary to monitor client repayment per-
formance and the overall quality of the loan portfolio.
1.05        In the area of portfolio management, actions taken by GOB/BSB and
IDA since June 1976 have resulted in a significant improvement in the quality
of the portfolio. As of June 30, 1976, 77% of the portfolio was affected by
arrears; by June 30, 1980 the level had been reduced to 40% and actions under
implementation should result in further improvements.
1.06       Through the efforts of GOB/BSB, ADB and IDA, BSB has developed into
an effective financial institution. BSB is now a major source of foreign
exchange financing for investment projects of small, medium. and large-scale
private sector industrial firms, and is also an important source of local
currency financing for these firms.
1.07      IDA's first credit of US$25.0 million to BSB became effective on
November 8, 1976, and was fully committed by December 31, 1979. The credit
provided assistance for twelve industrial subsectors including: printing
and packaging (27%); food and allied products (24%); water transport equip-
ment (19%); chemicals (14%); specialized textile units (9%); and service
industries (4%). Six other subsectors accounted for the balance of 3%.
Together with BSB's Taka currency financing, the credit resulted in total
project financing of Tk 976.0 million (US$61.0 million). Projects financed
under the credit had an average ex ante internal financial rate of return
of 25% and an average ex ante internal economic rate of return of about 33%.
Some 80% of the project financing was provided for new or diversification
projects, with the balance going for balancing and modernization. About
40% (43) by number and 5% by amount of the project financing was for small-
scale industry. Through 108 subprojects financed under the credit, 9,300
new jobs where created at a job/cost ratio of Tk 93,000 (US$5,812).
1.08       The objectives of the proposed credit would be to build on the
progress achieved to date and to address some of the outstanding issues affec-
ting industrial development in Bangladesh. Specifically, the credit would:
(i) contribute to GOB's objectives of expanding the role of the private
sector in industrial development, particularly through investment in non-
traditional export-oriented industries, efficient import substitution indus-
tries and in less-developed areas; (ii) continue the Bank's involvement with
the institutional development of BSB, with particular emphasis on BSB's
economic and sectoral activities and (iii) provide the vehicle to help develop
an integrated monitoring and control system of legal instruments and inter-
bank coordination to reduce the level of private sector arrears on term loans
from the banking system.



- 3 -
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Economic Environment
2.01       Bangladesh's economic progress up till FY79 is assessed in IDA's
economic report No.2870 entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Position and
Short Term Outlook" dated March 21, 1980. 1/ This report indicated that
there was a net deterioration of the welfare of the people during the 1970s
evidenced by a decline in per capita income from US$95 in FY75 to US$90 in
FY79-FY80, and by the failure of foodgrain production to keep pace with
increases in population. Economic improvements and a parallel improvement in
political stability have been made in the latter half of the 1970s, and GDP
increased by 30% in real terms between FY75-FY79. The rate of inflation,
which averaged 12.5% during FY78 and FY79, escalated to 18% in the first half
of FY80, but has slowed since to about 10%-12%. The main factor contributing
to the surge in inflation was the increase in foodgrain prices, clue to shor-
tages caused by drought. Escalating costs of imported goods, upward adjust-
ments in many administered prices, and rapid liquidity expansion in FY79 in
the context of slower economic growth exerted further pressures. If weather
conditions are reasonably good in FY81-FY82, inflation should remain at about
10%. Estimates for FY80 are that GDP growth slowed to about 3.5% (in real
terms)--substantially below the target rate of 7.3% set by GOB.
2.02      For the foreseeable future, Bangladesh's balance of payments will
continue to be characterized by a heavy dependence on foreign aid. FY80
merchandise exports increased by about 18% and imports by over 50%, with
foodgrain and petroleum purchases accounting for over three quarters of the
increase in imports. The situation on the current account is expected to
improve slightly due mainly to the continued rapid growth of worlcers' remit-
tances (US$163 million in FY80), which now represent the second most important
source of foreign exchange earnings after jute and jute goods exports. For
FY81, a severe deterioration in the terms of trade is expected due to the
fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import prices--
particularly petroleum. Moreover, the shortfall in commodity aid availability
anticipated for FY81 implies that a current account deficit much in excess of
the FY80 level of US$1.6 billion will not be sustainable. As a consequence,
the value of imports for all sectors is only expected to grow by 12.5% in
nominal terms in the next fiscal year.
2.03      In the short term, GDP growth rates of 7.0% or more per annum could
be achieved if agricultural production can be expanded and if essential inputs,
such as fertilizers, petroleum and spare parts, are available. GOB gives top
priority, together with the contaiinment of population growth and the achieve-
ment of mass literacy, to the expansion of foodgrain production, aiming at
self-sufficiency by the end of the Plan period. Industrial growth is targetted
1/   An Economic Mission visited Dacca in September 1980, and an economic
report is being prepared.



- 4 -
at 8.6% p.a. in real terms.  Labor intensive small-scale industries as well as
medium to large-scale industries based on local natural gas will receive
special attention. Achievement of the Plan's objectives will require a major
domestic savings effort, efficient use of scarce resources, and significantly
improved implementation capability. Continuous efforts will be required in
expanding the use of modern agricultural inputs, improving family planning,
increasing efficiency in public corporations, and encouraging private sector
investment. Unless employment opportunities outside agriculture increase,
incomes of landless and marginal farm families are likely to continue deter-
iorating in real terms. Measures to accelerate appropriate industrial devel-
opment therefore are crucial.
The Manufacturing Sector 1/
2.04      Background.  The manufacturing sector, although only accounting for
a small percentage of GDP is an important element in the Bangladesh economy;
it provides basic consumer goods, supplies agriculture with key inputs, pro-
duces a substantial part of the country's exports and is a major employer.
While its basic structure has changed little since independence, the perfor-
mance of the sector has a critical bearing on resource mobilization and the
sector is potentially an important area of rapid economic growth. Large and
medium scale enterprises are concentrated mainly in jute, cotton textile,
paper, steel, engineering and food. They constituted about 50% of the total
value added in the sector. Small scale and cottage based handloom weaving
and food processing operations constitute a major portion, in numbers, of the
sector and contribute the balance of manufacturing value added.
2.05      The bulk of large and medium scale manufacturing units are in the
public sector. This consists of about 300 units organized under the adminis-
trative control of seven sector corporations 2/: jute (the country's largest
export industry); cotton textiles (one of the major importing industries);
chemicals (including pulp and paper); steel and engineering; food (including
sugar refining); cement; and forestry. In addition, the public sector includes
many small units abandoned by West Pakistani entrepreneurs. A large number
of the large- medium scale manufacturing units in the sector were originally
established to supply the two wings of Pakistan. The separation of these
markets after independence substantially reduced capacity utilization. This
has been compounded by a shortage of foreign exchange to purchase raw mate-
rial and spare parts, inexperienced management and frequent labor unrest.
2.06      Performance.  Despite erratic fluctuation during the nine years since
independence, industrial production has slowly returned to pre-independence
levels. The manufacturing sector now contributes about 8.0% of GDP, 60% of
export earnings and employs about five million people. Large and medium scale
1/   Excludes mining, construction and public utilities.
2/   Sector Corporations administer GOB's shareholdings in enterprises in
the various subsectors, but do not have the legal/accounting status
of registered holding corporations. Their major role is to ensure
uniform application of GOB policies.



- 5 -
units account for about 5.5% of the contribution and employ about 350,000
people. The balance of GDP contribution and employment is generated by small
scale and cottage industries.
2.07      From FY75-FY80, output in manufacturing from large and medium scale
enterprises increased at an annual average rate of 7.5% (Annex 1), although
in FY79 and FY80, due to a surging petroleum and food import bill, GOB adopted
a restrictive import policy which caused the growth of these units to decline
to 3.5% in FY79 and 0.2% in FY80, largely as a result of constant outputs in
sectors such as textiles, etc. While the lack of raw materials, spare parts
and other intermediate goods affected production and the growth of the manu-
facturing sector, the continued poor performance of the public manufacturing
sector also contributed to the slowdown. Although the growth rate in FY79-
FY80 declined, industrial production for a number of items now exceeds pre-
independence levels although in key areas, such as yarn and pulp and paper
production is still below that in FY70 (Annex 2). During FY79-FY80, earnings
from exports of manufactured goods increased by about 50%, mainly due to favor-
able international prices for jute and jute goods. Non-traditional exports,
mainly of processed sea foods, leather, newsprint, and handicrafts increased
their share of total exports from 10% in FY77 to 14% in FY80.
2.08      Issues Affecting Performance.  Given the dominance of public
enterprises in the manufacturing sector, their performance has a considerable
impact on the sector and on the economy. However, achievement of satisfactory
levels of performance is often dependent on factors beyond the control of unit
management. Managers are faced with a number of conflicting objectives and
constraining operating requirements, some relating to their inherited opera-
tions, some relating to external non-governmental (although economy wide)
factors and some arising from the relationship between the Corporations and
the Government. In the inherited companies, antiquated equipment gives limited
scope for improving production efficiency, reducing the high costs of produc-
tion and utilizing installed capacity created for a market greater than current
demand within the country. The exiternal factors include: Bangladesh's limited
foreign exchange and lack of natural resources which often result in a shortage
of raw materials; power shortages (a continuing factor expected to improve
gradually in the next decade), which have a considerable impact upon production/
profitability, leaving unit managers with the choice of loss of production or
depletion of scarce internal funds to provide alternative sources of power;
and labor unrest (often politically-motivated) and absenteeism (despite a vast
pool of unemployed) further reduce management's ability to optimize production.
2.09      These economy-wide constraints affect all units, both public and
private, within the manufacturing sector, although to varying degrees. How-
ever, the Sector Corporations are faced with a number of special problems.
While they are expected to operate as profitable commercial organizations and
to generate a contribution (through profits, depreciation, taxes, etc.) towards
the replacement of assets and new investments, achievement of this objective
is constrained by GOB-established pricing structures, wage rates, staffing
levels and control over procurement. Further, management is unable to rational-
ize production, seal production facilities or close inefficient production
units. To a greater or lesser extent, these problems are faced by all public
manufacturing units. Where GOB/IDA have agreed upon action programs for speci-
fic industries (paragraph 2.10), the degree of autonomy given to Corporation



- 6 -
managers has been greatly increased. However the performance of the Sector
Corporations during FY80 indicates that more work must be done.
Development of an Industrial Strategy 1/
2.10      At the outset of IDA's dialogue with GOB in 1973 on the role of the
industrial sector in the economy, it was recognized that there was a need to:
(i) increase the efficiency of the public manufacturing enterprises; (ii) in-
crease exports, particularly through the identification ancd development of
non-traditional exports, and (iii) move towards a mixed economy with greater
involvement of the private sector in industrial development. IDA's first three
program credits addressed the needs of the public sector units i-or raw mate-
rials and spare parts in order to improve capacity utilization. In 1975, to
supplement this action, IDA's dialogue with GOB was expanded to include the
introduction of an ongoing program of subsectoral reviews to identify and
address policy and procedural issues constraining performance in the public
sector. These reviews covered the jute, cotton textile, fertilizer and pulp
and paper sectors. From these sectoral studies a series of action programs
were developed and implemented, and studies initiated to determine the long-
term development needs of each sector. To date, public sector units covered
by the action programs developed by IDA have been given more autonomy to
help improve their operational and financial performance. Additionally, GOB
is reorganizing and consolidating the structure of existing units. Although
progress has been slow, the jute and fertilizer industries have been returned
to profitability, and sector rehabilitation programs initiated. Work on
the textile sector is progressing; production efficiency has improved, and
an appraisal of a proposed sector rehabilitation project is scheduled for
February 1981. In the pulp and paper sector, the findings of the subsectoral
review underway should be available in March 1981.
2.11      Export Development.  Since FY77, Bangladesh's manufactured exports
have risen from US$219.7 million to US$375.3 million, or by 67%, with signi-
ficant growth rates for timber products (363%), handicrafts (198%) and leather
(197%). However, these growth rates have been offset to a great extent by the
stagnation, in real terms, of jute goods exports.  Other factors that have
influenced the rate of growth have been the dominant orientation of Bangladesh's
industrial development toward import substitution and the low profitability in
some areas of export industry. However, following the work of IDA's Industrial
Sector Mission in 1978, GOB has taken action to reverse this situation. As a
first step, GOB agreed to an Export Development Program as part of the focus of
the Seventh Imports Program Credit. The Program included the strengthening of
the institutional framework of the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), development
of a national export policy and export strategy, export product identification
and development, and improving trade information services, Under the Eighth
Imports Program Credit the focus was expanded and GOB agreed to prepare a
comprehensive Export Strategy for export development for FY81-FY85. In addi-
tion GOB agreed to (a) revise the Export Performance License (XPL) system; (b)
improve the duty drawback system; and (c) develop a more efficient system of
1/   For a detailed analysis of industrial policy and related issues, see
Report No. 2191-BD entitled, "Bangladesh - Issues and Prospects of
Industrial Development" dated December 5, 1978.



-7-
collating and presenting export statistics. The objective of changing the
XPL system is to shift the general basis of awarding the license from gross
fob values to a net foreign exchange criterion, thus encouraging the efficient
use of domestic resources and promoting diversification of exports. Under an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from the IMF, GOB is considering linking the XPL
system and the Wage Earners Scheme, and to expand this combined market. How-
ever, exporters would still receive only 40% to 60% of their export earnings
in free foreign exchange, which is in many cases an insufficient incentive to
increase export production. The objective of changing the duty drawback
procedures is to reduce the delays and complexities of claim procedures which
add considerably to the cost of financing the import of materials used for
export items. With the growth in exports, the need for comprehensive, accurate
statistics on which to base future development decisions has become pressing.
Thus the objective of the export statistics review is to design a rational
system of data collection and analysis to provide this information. A prelim-
inary report on necessary modifications to the XPL system and rates is under
preparation and should be available shortly. The review of the duty drawback
system is to be completed by July 31, 1981. Progress to date has been slow.
Currently the National Board of Revenue is reviewing the impact on revenue
generationof the proposals made to date. The primary review stage for the
revision of export statistics has been completed and implementation of revi-
sions is on schedule.
2.12      The EPB completed a draft of a detailed export strategy statement
in late 1979 and presented it to GOB. The main elements of the strategy were
acceptable to GOB and were also accepted by IDA. However, in comlpiling the
SFYP, GOB did not include a separate, clearly-defined section on export strat-
egy. Unless the strategy is presented as a GOB document and used as a guide
to export development, much of its value will be lost.  Consequently, under
the Eighth Imports Program Credit, GOB agreed to formulate an Exp,ort Develop-
ment Strategy statement which would be presented to IDA for comment and there-
after approved by the Cabinet by March 31, 1981. Progress in implementing the
strategy will be monitored carefully. Special attention would be given to
progress in product and supply development programs, particularly for non-
traditional export items.
2.13      The Role of the Private Sector.  At independence, Bangladesh inhe-
rited an industrial policy framework focussed on controls, licensing and
bureaucratic allocation of resources. The structure of industry ownership
changed dramatically when the jute, cotton textile, and sugar industries were
nationalized together with firms abandoned by West Pakistani entrepreneurs.
The role of the private sector was restricted both in terms of limits of
permissible investment and in the areas of operation.
2.14      Since 1973, GOB's general policy on industry has shifted gradually
towards the encouragement of greater private sector involvement in industrial
development and the reduction, through disinvestment, of the dominant role
of the public sector. Limits on the size of private sector project investment
have been lifted, although projects above Tk 100 million (US$6.25, million)
have still to be approved by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC). Private sector investment is now permitted in 50 sectors
(including textile) previously reserved to the public sector.



- 8 -
2.15      In support of its policy to establish a mixed economy, GOB has dis-
invested a number of public sector enterprises in the chemical, engineering,
food and leather processing industries. To date, about 350 units have been
sold to the private sector for US$36.5 million. Most of these units have
been small unprofitable units which were abandoned by their Pakistani owners
aL independence. However, GOB has also disinvested several large profitable
units, such as the National Tea Corporation, through public share issues.
2.16      GOB's changing emphasis on industrial development is evidenced by
the increasing importance given to private sector investment and by the pri-
vate sector's response. Under GOB's First Five Year Plan (FY73-FY78), private
sector investment was targeted at Tk 5.0 billion (US$312.5 million) or 11% of
total investment. Sanctions, although below the target, were Tk 4.6 billion
(US$287.5 million) or 17% of total investment. In the subsequent Two Year
Plan (FY79-FY80), the target for private sector sanctions was increased to
16% or Tk 8.2 billion (US$512.5 million) and was achieved. Throughout the
period FY73-FY80; the level of sanctions converted into actual investments
remained constant at about 50%. In the SFYP, GOB anticipates that Tk 11.1
billion (US$694.0 million) or 20% of the Plan's total private sector invest-
ment will be provided for manufacturing.
2.17      From a very low base, the private sector's involvement in the manu-
facturing sector has increased since 1973, although the rate of involvement
has been slow. Since 1978, GOB and IDA have sought to rectify this situation
tnrough identifying and addressing the factors contributing to the slow rate
of involvement. Currently, IDA is conducting intensive discussions with GOB
on a program of industrial and trade policy reform aimed at promoting the role
of the private sector. Based on an in depth analysis of existing policies and
of economic efficiency in industrial sub-sectors the program would cover (a)
tariff reforms based on effective protection, (b) reform of investment incen-
tives to make them more consistent and efficient, (c) export policy reform
to correct the present anti-export bias, and (d) project identification and
investment promotion. The objective of the program is to provide an effective
policy framework for implementing GOB's intention to develop the private
sector. In part, financing of necessary equity would be provided through
the recently created Investment Promotion Corporation (IPC) (paragraph 2.29),
while BSB would contribute to the objectives through long-term loans to
industry. 1/
2.18      Because of the limited foreign exchange resources of the country,
foreign exchange is generally allocated to industry groups on a production
requirement basis for one-shift operation for a period of 12 months. This
period of validity and the administrative delays in obtaining renewals inhibits
production planning, multiple shift operation and inventory control by esta-
blished firms and deters private sector investors who are apprehensive about
obtaining renewal of licences each year. Within the constraints of foreign
exchange availability, import licences should be valid for two to three years.
1/   In line with GOB's objectives, BSB would engage in more active project
promotion in specific investment areas identified by subsector analyses
(paragraph 4.13).



- 9 -
GOB has recently made some changes in import control procedures (e.g., the
use of Open General Licenses), which have improved the system and the avail-
ability of raw materials. This issue is being discussed as part of IDA's
ongoing review of GOB's Tariff and Import Policies (paragraph 2.17).
2.19      Related to imports control, the Investment Schedule is a control
on the use of foreign exchange in investment. GOB, through the Department
of Industries, estimates the demand-supply balance for various products, sets
this against existing capacities and computes the required capacity to meet
projected demands. As actual and sanctioned capacity are rarely reconciled,
the Schedule and the priority listings are based on estimated capacity in
the sector. In its present form, the Investment Schedule cannol perform the
function of relating national objectives to industrial investment decisions
because there is no attempt to determine the economic efficiency of produc-
tion in terms of comparative advantages. Recognizing the deficiencies in the
Schedule, the Government has introduced some flexibility in its application,
e.g., export-oriented projects are now automatically considered for approval
even if they were not originally identified in the Schedule, limits on invest-
ment by private industries have been removed, and subsector sanctioning author-
ity for banks involved in long-term development finance has been extended.
However, if the Investment Schedule is to be used as a guideline and promo-
tional instrument as GOB intends, it should focus not only on expansion of
output in existing industries but base industrial planning on economic
efficiency considerations.
2.20      Moreover, the draft of the Investment Schedule for FY80-FY82 inc-
luded separate allocations for small scale industries in all product lines,
with some product lines fully reserved for small scale industries. Since
reserving investments in the absence of in-depth analyses of economies of
scale can lead to serious misallocations of scarce resources, GOB has assured
IDA that it intends to use the investment allocations for small scale indus-
tries strictly as indicative guidelines rather than controls.
2.21      Under Credit 632-BD, GOB agreed to carry out a review of its invest-
ment approval procedures in order to reduce the complexity and time for: (i)
obtaining preliminary project clearance required from the Department of Indus-
tries; (ii) obtaining the final project approval required from the Investment
Board; (iii) processing applications by financial institutions; and (iv)
obtaining approval for infrastructural facilities and raw material imports.
In 1977 and 1979, after a review of the procedures by an inter-ministerial
committee, GOB submitted two brief reports to IDA which reported on various
procedural improvements but did not adequately address the issues involved.
Subsequently, in November 1980, GOB appointed a consultant to carry out the
required study which is now expected to be completed in April 1981. The study
is aimed at identifying weaknesses in the existing sanctioning system, propos-
ing changes in policies and procedures and providing a timetable to implement
the necessary actions. The recommendations should address overlapping control
by various agencies, excessive and inconsistent data requirements, and possi-
bilities of simultaneous processing or elimination of approval requirements
for a particular size or type of industrial projects (e.g., small industries
and export-oriented projects).  GOB has agreed that, by December 31, 1981, it
shall, in consultation with IDA, have taken appropriate measures to implement
agreed revisions to the investment approval procedures.



- 10 -
2.22      Alt-hough foreign investment is permitted in collaboration witik
both public and private sector organizations, incentives, dividend and capital
rights, etc. were not clearly defined. In 1979, GOB enacted a new Foreign
Private Investment Act which granted the same incentives to foreign and domes-
tic investors, specified general repatriation facilities5 and expressed a
generai assurance against nationalization, except in case of national emer-
gencv. The Act represented an improvement over the previous situation,
although some problems still have to be resolved. Wnile taxed cash dividends
can now be repatriated in full, present regulations stipulate that gains and
re-in-vestments from profits made during the first 10 years of operation must
be repatriated over a 10-year period. This requirement compares unfavorably
with the rules in most Asian countries, which generally have minlimal restric-
tions on such repatriation. As the Act does not detail repatriation rights,
it is not clear whether this regulation will continue to be in effect. There
is also a need for the Act to set out more clearly the parameters for loans
and agreements on technology transfers and the bodies/institutions empowered
to administer its provisions. These issues, which should not constrain foreign
investment, will be pursued with GOB under IDA's ongoing dialogue on industrial
sector development.
2.23      Under the strategy that GOB has evolved for industrial development
in the SFYP, agro-industries, export-oriented and import-substitution indus-
tries are seen as key elements in increasing the industrial sector's contri-
bution to national development.  This is especially important- through the
impact of these industries on productive efficiency and foreign exchange
earnings. On the basis of the actiorLs and incentives proposed under the Plan,
the overall contribution of the industrial sector is expected to grow slightly
faster than the rest of the economy, with an annual growth rate of 8.6%,
raising its contribution to GDP to about 11.0% by 1985.  In Line with these
objectives, GOB anticipates private sector investment as follows:
Sector           Private Sector Monetized Investme-at - SFYP
(Tk Billion)   (US$ Billion)              %
1.  Agriculture           9.35            0.6                  17
2.  Manufacturing        11.10            0.7                  20
3.  Transport            10.85            0.7                  20
4.  Infrastructure        10.00           0.6                   18
5. Trade & Other
Services            13.40           0.8                   25
54.70           3.4                 100
2.24      In view of their predominant role in industrial employment, contri-
bution to industrial value added and export earnings, considerable support
would be provided in each of the priority areas noted in paragraph 2.23 for
small scale and cottage enterprises. GOB recognizes that major potential
exists for more rapid growth in organized small scale enterprises producing
components and spares for industrial equipment, including the jute and textile
industry, and the manufacture and repair of agricultural and irrigation
equipment. IDA's Third Small Scale Iadustries Project and the Ninth Imports



- 11 -
Program Credit provide support for these industries and the resources under
these projects would be supplemented by the proposed credit to BSB.
Industrial Finance
2.25      Structure.  Bangladesh has a fairly extensive and well-established
structure of financial institutions serving the industrial sector. These
include industrial term lending an,d investment institutions, a variety of
special purpose institutions serving agriculture, construction and other
priority sectors, domestic and foreign commercial banks and a stock exchange.
The industrial financing institutions are the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB),
Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BS]RS) and the Investment Corporation of
Bangladesh (ICB), which provide financing for small, medium and large-scale
projects in the public and private sectors. Two investment promotion companies
provide venture capital and arrange foreign exchange financing for viable
projects (paragraph 2.29). Commercial banks are important sources of working
capital finance for industry and recently they have been authorized by the
Bangladesh Bank to provide up to 50% of the term financing requirement of
private sector projects, particularly in the designated priority areas of
small-scale industrial investment. Loans to small-scale industry are provided
primarily by the commercial banks with some financing provided by BSB, although
in the past the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC)
was also active in providing term financing. GOB, through budgetary alloca-
tions, also provides some long-term financing in the form of equity and loans
to the Public Sector Corporations.
2.26      Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB).  The major activity of BSB is the
provision of long-term local and foreign currency credit facilities mainly to
small and medium-sized manufacturing firms in the private sector. BSB also
operates as a scheduled commercial bank accepting deposits on fixed savings
and current accounts and extending short-term working capital loans. As of
June 30, 1980, BSB had approved loans totalling about Tk 2.2 billion (US$137.5
million) and had a loan portfolio of Tk 1.95 billion (US$122.0 million). The
main areas of BSB's investment include jute, 34%; textiles, 18%; food, 11%;
printing and packaging, 11%; and service industries, 7%, with 14 other sub-
sectors accounting for the balance. Additionally, it participates in consortium
arrangements and undertakes project promotion and technical assistance. BSB
is a major source of foreign exchange financing for private sector industry
accounting for about 37% of foreign exchange financing by all of the country's
financial institutions since 1972.
2.27       Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS).  Like BSB, BSRS came about
as a result of a merger of institutions which already existed at lndependence:
the East Pakistan wing of the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corpora-
tion (PICIC), the National Investment Trust (NIT), and the Investment Corpora-
tion of Pakistan (ICP). The direct financing operations of BSRS comprise term
lending, equity investments and underwriting of share and debenture issues for
public and private sector projects. As of June 30, 1980, BSRS had approved
loans totalling about Tk 2.5 billion (US$156.3 million) and had a loan port-
folio of about Tk 2.4 billion (US$150.0 million). Initially, BSRS tended to
concentrate its portfolio on large-scale industrial projects predominantly in
the public sector and as of June 30, 1980, about 79% of BSRS' portfolio was in
this sector. About 60% of the portfolio was in jute and 17% in textiles with



- 1.2 -
nine other subsectors acc:ounting for the balance. However, since 1977, the
bulk of BSRS' loan approvals have been for private sector projects which
accounted for about 83% of approvals during the period. Outside its financing
activities, BSRS assists prospective entrepreneurs in identifying projects and
formulating project proposals, particularly with respect to foreign business,
and provides professional counsel to entrepreneurs regarding ongoing projects.
2.28       Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB).  Following the reopening
of the Dacca Stock Exchange in 1976, GOB established the Investment Corporation
of Bangladesh (ICB) with the principal objectives of underwriting public issues
of shares and debentures and arranging bridge financing against its under-
writings. As of June 30, 1979, ICB had approved underwriting arrangements of
Tk 576 million (US$36.0 million) for 104 companies.  In addition to its under-
writing operations, ICB has initiated an investor's scheme for small savers
giving loans of Tk 3.6 million (US$225,000). !CB is currently considering the
creation of a Mutual Fund to deal in shares released by ICB from its portfolio
and by GOB from its majority shareholdings in abandoned companies.
2.29       Investment Promotion Institutions,  In addition to the major deve-
lopment financing institutions, two private sector companies have been esta-
blished to help promote projects in the private sector, mobilizing foreign and
local resources for the purpose. The first of the institutions to be created
was the International Finance and Investment Company Ltd. (IFIC), which was
established in October 1976 and began business in February 1977. Fifty-one
per cent of IFIC's shares were initially offered to foreign investors, the
sponsors, institutional and private investors in Bangladesh, and the general
public in Bangladesh; 49% was offered to the six nationalized commercial
banks, BSB and BSRS. Originally, the company was created to conduct banking
and other financial business abroad, with the main objective of developing
and strengthening financial relationships between Bangladesh and the outside
world, particularly the oil rich Middle East countries. Since the IFIC was
unable to make any progress in this regard, it obtained permission from the
Bang'ladesh Bank to offer a full range of merchant banking services in Bangla-
desh, including the opening of letters of credit covering imports under the
Wage Earners' Scheme, providing pre- and post-import finance and accepting
taka deposits emanating from Wage Earners' remittances for channelling into
productive investment. As yet, the company has not had any significant impact
on industrial development, concentrating more on its merchant banking opera-
tions.
2.30      The second institution to be established was the Investment Promotion
Company (IPC) which was created early in 1980 with an initial share capital
of US$6.0 million distributed among GOB (30%), Industrial Promotion Services
(Switzerland) (17.5%), the German Development Corporation (17.5%), the Common-
wealth Development Corporation (17.5%) and the International Finance Corpora-
tion (17.5%). IPC will function primarily as a venture capital company,
acquiring equity in projects through convertible loans and/or share options.
IPC will also offer consultancy services on a fee basis tc public companies.
Through identifying and promoting sound productive enterprises in the private
sector and through assistance in the application of managerial and technical
skills, both in the public and private sectors, it is expected that IPC will
help considerably the industrial development of Bangladesh.



- 13 -
2.31      The Dacca Stock Exchange.  The Dacca Stock Exchange started activity
in 1967 and, until independence, was strongly influenced by the Karachi market.
At its peak, in 1969, the Exchange had 190 listings and a daily turnover of
Tk 200,000 concentrated in two or three issues. After independence, the market
closed but was reactivated in 1976 as part of GOB's program to stimulate pri-
vate sector investment in industry., At present, 195 stock-brokers are members
of the exchange, of which 50 are considered to be active. As of June 30, 1980,
there were only 19 listed companies and about 1% of their shares were actively
traded. In 1977, to stimulate the expansion of the stock market, GOB directed
that new private sector projects applying for assistance from BSB, BSRS or ICB
should offer up to 50% of their capital for public subscription if the paid-up
capital exceeded Tk 5.0 million (US$ 322,000) or its fixed assets exceeded
Tk 10.0 million (US$ 645,000). This directive is being implemented only
gradually by the financing institutions.
2.32      Since FY76, the capital market in Bangladesh has not developed to
any extent and does not provide an effective source of investment funds for
industrial development. This situation is due in part to the strong inclin-
ation among private entrepreneurs to establish private limited companies with
family-held shareholdings and a high degree of term financing. The limited
availability of equity finance is a problem and, though the activities of the
ICB offer a partial solution, additional steps such as the activation of
the capital market need to be taken if the shortage of equity fundls is not
to become a serious obstacle to the growth of private investment. However,
GOB recognizes the capital market as a potential source of financing for its
overall industrial development program. At GOB's request, IFC is carrying out
a study of the market and its operations with the objective of establishing a
fully-fledged securities market in Bangladesh.
2.33      Industrial Financing.  From FY76 to FY79, domestic credit by the
banking system grew by some 50%, mainly due to increased lending for jute
trading, imports and agriculture. In the same period, savings grew sluggishly
and commercial banks continued to rely heavily on refinance from t'he Bangladesh
Bank. However, in July 1979, credit was tightened in an effort to contain
strong inflationary pressures. While total industrial credit availability was
tightened, lending to private industry increased from 23% in FY78 to 26% in
FY79 and expanded further during FY80. About 70% of term credit Ito industry
is provided by BSB and BSRS with some bridge financing from ICB.
2.34      Annex 3 shows private investment in the manufacturing sector during
the first Five Year Plan (1973-1978) and the Two Year Plan (1979-1980). Against
total sanctions of Tk 9.1 billion (US$569.0 million), actual investment was
Tk 4.3 billion (US$294.0 million) cr 47% of sanctions.  Demand for term financ-
ing since FY73 has been strong with the private sector converting about 50% of
investment sanctions into actual investments. Based on conservative assumptions
of continued private investment by the manufacturing sector during the SFYP
period, total investment requirements for FY81-FY85 have been set at Tk 11.1
billion (US$694.0 million). About 50% of this requirement is exp(ected to be
in local currency requirements which would be provided by the deveslopment
financing institutions and through internal cash generation. In the area of
foreign exchange financing, the IDA, credit would provide US$49.75 million to
cover part of the potential financing requirement, the remainder being met by
ADB, and from other bilateral agencies.



- 14 -
2.35      interest Rates.  From June 1976 to October 1980, there was no -ange
in the interest rate structure.  Commercial banks charged 11% p.a.-12% p.a.
for industrial loans, while BSB and BSRS charged an average of 11.5% for local
currency loans and 12% p.a. for foreign currency loans.  't.'e 'DA's first two
projects for small scale industry have provided financing at similar rates,
some small scale and cottage enterprises have borrowed from mroney lenders whose
rates were substantially higher.  Although interest rates 6id not change during
this period, the rate of inflation continued to rise, reaching '8% in the
first half of FY80, failing gradually to about 12% in the second half of FY80.
Thus, in FY78-FY80, real interest rates were negative. In October 1980, GOB
announced significant increases in both deposit and loan  nrterest rates.  The
Bank rate was increased from 8.0% p.a. to 10.5% p.a. and the rate for industrial
lending from 11.5% p.a. to 14% p.a., with interest on loans Lo commerce and
trade rising from 12.0% p.a. to 15% p.a. With the rate of inflation running
at about 10.0%-12.0% interest rates are now positive in real ternms.
2.36      Prospects.  The financial institutions in Bangladesh have been able
to meet the long-term loan financing needs of the private sector, both in
terms of local currency and foreign currency funds. Their ability to meet
past demand is partly the result of the low level of private sector investment
during a major part of the post-independence period.  As inkrestment begins to
accelerate in response to policy changes, there may be some constraints to
credit availability as the private sector competes with the public sector for
available funds. The capacity of BSB, BSRS and the ICB to mobilize sufficient
resources to meet demands will be challenged and their abil-;ty to process and
commit applications could become a critical element in the investment cycle.
The commercial banks are increasing their support of the private sector and
in the future will need to pay particular attention to the needs of smaller
and cottage industries.
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Autonomy
3.01      GOB's stated policy is that BSB should function as an autonomous
institution with GOB's involvement limited to general indusLrial investment
policy guidance, appointment of the Board of Directors and senior staff
(departmental managers and above), approval of BSB's budget, and appointment
of BSB's auditors. In addition, BSB must conform with the unifDrm terms
and conditions of operation, e.g., salaries, benefits and promotion structure,
set by GOB for all State Corporations. In general, these policies, with the
exception of conditions of operations, do not constr.ain BSB's activities, and
relations between GOB and BSB continue to be good. Through the GOB represen-
tatives on its Board (paragraph 3.04), BSB keeps in close touch with Govern-
ment on the interpretation of its policy requirements. This understanding
is strengthened by BSB's representation on GOB's Investment and Disinvestment
Boards and on the Boards of other public financial institutions.
3.02      WThile BSB's autonomy is usually respected by GOB, it has recently
been constrained in two areas: project operations and perscnnel recruitment/



- 15 -
retention. In the area of project operations, BSB has been required to divert
its scarce experienced manpower resources to administer GOB's diisinvested
companies program and its "crash" program to appraise and provide finance to
upgrade facilities and/or capacity in such subsectors as inland water trans-
port, etc. In the latter instance, GOB has required BSB to modify its appraisal
procedures in order to process applications to a predetermined time-schedule.
BSB has, however, autonomy in the final selection and approval of projects to
be financed. Since June 1978, BSB has rejected 12 applications for foreign
currency loans totalling Tk 28 million (US$1.8 million); becauseh in its view
the proposed projects were not economically or financially viable. 1/
3.03      In the area of personnel recruitment/retention, BSB, like all other
public sector corporations in Bangladesh, is required to comply with the salary
structures applicable to civil servants. This requirement causes recruitment
obstacles as BSB is unable to offer appropriate salaries and conditions to the
specialist staff, particularly experienced engineers, that it neteds to appraise
and supervise project implementation. To reduce these constraints, BSB has
reviewed its personnel policies and is currently introducing a rLumber of modi-
fications to its terms and conditions of service (paragraph 3.06).
Management
3.04      Board of Directors.  Overall control and direction of BSB rests with
a Board of Directors appointed by the Government. Mr. A.H.M. Kamaluddin, who
succeeded Mr. Nurul Matin in 1975, has continued as Chairman of the Board and
Managing Director of BSB. Of the nine member Board (Annex 4), four directors
have served since 1977 and three since 1978. The Board members represent GOB
(4), the professions and business (3) and other financial institutions (1).
The representatives from Government are senior policy making officers concerned
with development of the industrial sector. The Board meets at least monthly,
with good attendance, to direct BSB's general affairs and to approve all new
investment commitments exceeding the Chairman's level of authorization of
Tk 2.0 million.
3.05      Management.  BSB's full-time Chairman and Managing Director is
supported in the management of BS]3 by three General Managers responsible for
Project Promotion and Appraisal, End-Use Operations and Administration, res-
pectively. Following the resignation in March 1980 of the General Manager
(Appraisals), the responsibilities of this function have been reallocated
temporarily to the other General Managers. This reallocation of responsibi-
lities has further concentrated decision making at the top levels of BSB's
management, which burdens itself with too many routine matters. This situa-
tion should be resolved partly with the appointment of a new third General
Manager (paragraph 3.08). Under GOB's general conditions of service, the
Chairman and the General Manager (End-Use Operations) will be required to
retire within the next two years. In view of the shortage of senior executives
1/   BSB has also referred a significant number of project applications back
to the sponsors for restructuring of technical and financial aspects of
the proposals.



- 16 -
with experience in development banking and economic management, GOB should
initiate now the search for competent replacements. Apart from the promotion
of several senior officers to management positions with other banks, manage-
ment at the department level has remained stable over the past two/three
years. With this stability and conti-nuity, there has been a gradual improve-
ment in some areas of operations, although appraisal/end-use operations are
still weak. Over the next two years, a number of departmental managers are
due to retire and there will be a need for BSB to take positive action,
through recruitment/promotion, to maintain and upgrade management standards.
3.06      Staff.  As of June 30, 1980, BSB's staff numbered 856, including 385
professional officers (Annex 5). Since FY76, BSB's professional staff has
increased from 208, or by an annual average rate of about 20%, which is in line
with the expansion of BSB's operations. However, during the same period the
staff turnover rate averaged 15% p.a., with most resignations being from BSB's
experienced technical staff. Turnover has, however, declined over the past
three years, falling from 19% in FY78 to 10% in FY80. Under the provisions
of ADB's second credit to BSB, BSB has carried out a review of its profes-
sional staff salaries and benefits. This review has been completed, and in
January 1980 BSB submitted proposals to GOB to revise certain aspects of its
personnel policies. The changes include (a) provision of improved office/
working facilities; (b) overseas training for officers with management poten-
tial; (c) upgraded fringe benefits, including provision of subsidized loans
on confirmation of appointment; and (d) rationalization of the organization
structure to provide clearer patterns of promotion.  In addition BSB is taking
measures to recruit the increased number of professional officers required to
cope with the expansion of its operations and has also initiated action to
restructure its organization to make more efficient use of existing staff and
to provide more opportunities for promotion.
3.07      Training.  Since December 1978, BSB has not conducted any formal
training courses for its staff, although a number of officers have partici-
pated in external training programs, including those run by the Institute of
Business Administraton (Dacca), ADB and the Economic Development Institute of
the Bank. In view of BSB's staffing requirements and the loss of experienced
staff through resignations, etc., there is a need for continued and comprehen-
sive training programs within BSB. As a condition of ADB's second credit to
BSB, BSB was required also to carry out a detailed review of its training pro-
grams and to make recommendations to GOB to rectify the weaknesses identified.
Based on the findings of this study, which was completed in January 1980,
BSB has agreed on the outline of a training program for FY81-FY83, which
is included in its strategy statement.
Organization
3.08      BSB's present organization (Annex 6) consists of its Head Office
in Dacca, supported by a network of 10 branches. Since May 1975, BSB has
regrouped its departments several tines (the latest in May 1980) to overcome
shortages of experienced senior officers. Unfortunately, these regroupings
resulted in the illogical separation of related functions and over-extended
spans of control, fragmenting BSB's appraisal and end-use work, and separat-
ing accounting functions under different heads of control. In an attempt to



- 17 -
deal with this situation, BSB established six inter-departmental coordination
committees. In order to improve operational coordination, maintain control
over systems and procedures, enforce quality control of output, reduce spans
of control, and provide greater opportunities for upward mobility/promotion,
IDA has proposed the following operational groupings:
(a)  project promotion, appraisal (financial, technical and
economic) research, and statistics;
(b)  project supervision, project administration, legal depart-
ment, and disinvested companies;
(c)  general banking, loan accounting, central accounting and
external assistance; and
(d)  establishment, personnel, training and secretarial.
GOB/BSB have submitted a plan for the reorganization of BSB's structure.
This has a number of difference from the groupings proposed by IDA. These
differences have been discussed with GOB/BSB and it has been agreed that, as
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit, a structure in line with
the groupings shown in Annex 7 would be adopted by BSB. Additionally GOB/BSB
agreed to implement the adopted structure (including the appointment of a
third general manager) in accordance with a schedule agreed between GOB/BSB
and IDA.
Operating Strategy and Policies
3.09      Operating Strategy.  In a strategy paper approved by its Board in
January 1976, BSB formulated the objectives and priorities it proposed to
pursue during FY76-FY80. The paper gave priority to: (i) follow-up action
on projects already in operation; (ii) provision of working capital loans to
BSB's long-term borrowers to assist them to overcome temporary operating dif-
ficulties and also to facilitate repayment of amounts due; and (iii) portfolio
diversification through investment: in export-oriented industries, projects in
less-developed areas and BMR projects. Against these objectives, BSB's per-
formance has been mixed, with factors such as GOB's controls over public
sector corporation operations and debt servicing capabilities affecting ulti-
mate performance. Follow-up action on projects in operation has increased and
collections have been above target: (paragraph 5.05 ). However, these did not
keep pace with the increase in the level of BSB's operations, and the level of
arrears increased significantly until FY80, when in accordance with agreements
reached with IDA, GOB/BSB action resulted in a substantial decrease. Because
of uneven collections, BSB did not: expand its working capital operations,
although this still remains an operating objective. In the area of lending
operations, despite project promotion efforts, the objective of significant
portfolio diversification has not been achieved. Loan approvals have been
concentrated in six sectors: food industries, jute, textiles, printing and
packaging, transport, and service industries. In part, this concentration
reflected GOB priorities and in part entrepreneurial bias towards well-
developed industries.



- 18 -
3.10      To provide guidelines for the medium-term, BSB has for-mulated an
operating strategy for FY81-FY83.  The strategy (Anrlex 8), vklich was fc-ally
adopted by 3SB on January 28, 1981, highlights BSB's development objectives,
which include; inter alia: (i) an intensified promotional role designed to
encourage new entrepreneurs; (ii) adoption of an investment priority listing
for pro`ect investment; (iii) identification of priority sectors for under-
taking subsectoral reviews; and (iv) a program to contain ar4 reduce the level
of arrears.  In order to eliminate economically undesirable pro,ects, BSB has
indicated the types of projects it would not finance.  The s.-rategy has been
reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory. BSB's progress against the
priorities set out iJn the strategy statement will be monitored closely by
!DA during F182-FY83.
3.11      Operating Policies.  Although there have been no amendments to BSB's
policy statement since FY76, the statement, together with specific Board reso-
lutions over time and GOBWs periodic guidelines on industrial in.vestment, has
prov ded a satisfactory policy framework for BSB's operations.  Thus, the
pattern of BSB's industrial financing has generally followed thie investment
priorities set out in GOB's Industrial Investment Schedule. In line with
GOB's promotion of private sector involvement in industry. BSB has directed
its financial support mainly towards private industry and towards the deve-
lopment of nontraditional export-oriented industries. BSBes policy statement
limits any one loan to a project to not more than 15% of BS3`s net worth
(equity, reserves and unappropriated profits) and BSB's ex-posure by way of
loans and/or equity in any one company to not more than 20% of BSB's net
worth. Against these limits, BSB's exposure in any enterprise can be varied
by Board approval on a case-by-case basis. As of June 30, .980, there were
only three companies in which BSB had an exposure of more than 20% of its net
worth. In all cases, the companies concerned were performing satisfactorily
and are meeting their repayment obligations on schedule. On January 28, 1981,
BSB's Board adopted a revised operating policy statement (Annex 9) reflecting
changed condition since 1976 and GOB policy and investment guidelines for the
immediate future. The revised policy statement has been reviewed by IDA and
found to be satisfactory.
3.12      Terms of Assistance.  Up until mid-October 1980, BSB's standard
interest rates for domestic and foreign currency loans had been set at 11.5%
p.a. ana 12.0% p.a. respectively.  Thus with inflation averaging about 15%
since FY78, BSB's interest rates have been negative in real terms. For for-
eign currency loans to small scale enterprises under ADB's second line of
credit, the rate is 11.5% p.a. Additional to the interest rate, BSB charged
a penalty interest rate of 2.0% p.a. on principal and interest in arrears. On
October 16, 1980, GOB announced an upward revision of the interest rate struc-
ture for the Bansking System (Annex 10) with the ceilings on deposit interest
rates increased by an average of 66% and loan rates by an average of 18%.
Under the revised interest rate structure, the rate on taka currency working
capital and term loans for industrial purposes is increased from 11.5% p.a.-
12% p.a. to 14% p.a. GOB and IDA projections for FY81-FY82 anticipate a rate
of inflation of about 10%-12%, which would give BSB a marginally positive real
rate of interest on its loans and advances. BSB charges a commitment fee of
1% p.a. on foreign currency loans and a fee of between 0.25% p.a. and 1% p.a.
on local currency loans. BSB's standard lending terms provide for a loan



- 19 -
period of up to 15 years, with a grace period of up to three years. While
interest rates are now positive in real terms, there is a need for a periodic
reviews of the rates to ensure that they remain positive in real terms (para-
graph 6.04).
Procedures and Standards
3.13      Appraisals.  Following the review of BSB's appraisal procedures in
FY78-FY79 under Credit 632-BD by a UNDP consultant, there has been an improve-
ment in the quality of BSB's project preparation and appraisals. However, the
quality of appraisals still suffers from a fragmentation of appraisal work
(para 3.08), a lack of sectoral analysis, and an over-emphasis oln the micro
supply/demand position rather than on the marketing/market for the output of
projects under review. In additicin, there is a need for BSB to review more
critically the project implementation schedules and the impact oE delays on
construction costs.  BSB's management has recognized these weaknesses and
intends to: (i) improve its marketing assessments by recruiting specialized
marketing staff, and assessing in more depth sector capacity utilization and
performance; and (ii) apply sensitivity analyses to project costs to determine
the impact of delays and inflation.
3.14      At present, BSB calculates economic rates of return for large pro-
jects, but generally the economic analysis is not satisfactory, particularly
for projects where product lines have not been identified in sectoral studies
as economically efficient.  BSB has given assurances that it wilL calculate
economic rates of return (ERRs) ansd domestic resource costs (DRCs) for all
IDA-financed loans over US$300,000. Additionally, BSB has indicated that its
appraisal reports will bring out more explicitly the employment impact in
terms of job creation, gross earnings, and value added to fixed iLnvestment,
foreign earnings/savings, etc.
3.15      Project Supervision.  Since FY76, considerable efforts have been
made by BSB to improve the standard and impact of end-use supervision. Site
visits have increased from 112 in FY76 to 630 in FY80, although this is only
64% of the number of visits required to visit each of BSB's 492 active projects
at least twice a year. Supplementing site visits, BSB operates a system of
site visit reports which provide the basis for management's review of each
project's performance. These reports are of limited use, however, as they
focus on the financial performance of the project and do not give any indica-
tion of the technical and marketing difficulties faced by the project. In
1979, under the conditions of its second credit from ADB, BSB carried out a
review of its organizational arrangements and systems and procedures for end-
use operations. As a result of this review, BSB has created a problem project
cell, reorganized end-use operations based on a regional grouping; of projects
and is now introducing changes to its site visit reporting system to focus on
operating problems and issues. To improve its supervision of public sector
projects, BSB is now making considerable use of its GOB Board representatives
to obtain operational data and recovery of arrears.
3.16      Procurement and Disbursement.  BSB's procurement procedures and
arrangements are satisfactory. For foreign currency loans of: (i) up to



- 20 -
US$150,000, the project sponsor is required to submit at least three quota-
tions obtained through reasonable competition; (ii) between USS150,000 and
up to US$500,000, the project sponsor or BSB obtains quotations from known
manufacturers (in more than one country) through international shopping; and
(iii) over US$500,000, BSB invites international competitive bidding, in
accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines, through advertising the tender
specifications in local (English language) newspapers. Where the procurement
is to be financed under IDA or ADB credits, BSB also forwards copies of tender
specifications to Embassies of member countries located in Dacca.  BSB's
disbursement procedures are tightly controlled and remain satisfactory.
IV. RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS
Overall Operations
4.01      Reflecting the improving investment climate in the private sector
and the availability of foreign exchange through IDA's and ADB's credits
(Annex 11), BSB's gross approvals increased from Tk 65.0 million (US$4.1 mil-
lion) in FY76 to Tk 1,092.0 million (US$68.3 million) in FY80. The sharp
increase in approvals has not yet been fully reflected in the level of commit-
ments which rose from Tk 20.4 million (US$1.3 million) in FY76 to Tk 476.9
million (US$29.8 million) in FY80. Allowing for fluctuations in the annual
rate of commitments to approvals, BSB has achieved an overall commitment rate
of 61.5% during the period FY76-FY80. Disbursements during the same period
have increased from Tk 87.8 million (US$5.5 million) in FY76 to Tk 351.7
million (US$22.0 million) in FY80 giving a satisfactory commitment to dis-
bursement rate of 70.8% (Annex 12).
Resource Mobilization
4.02      General.  As of June 30, 1980, BSB's resources totalled Tk 3.2
billion (US$203 million).Foreign currency resources accounted for Tk 1.6
billion (50%) and local currency resources for Tk 1.6 billion (50%).
4.03      Foreign Currency.  The bulk of BSB's foreign currency resources
has come from two credits from ADB with the balance provided mainly by IDA,
Saudi Grants and KfW loans. Of the total foreign exchange resources raised
by BSB up to June 30, 1980, ADB loans accounted for Tk 602 million (38%),
IDA's credit for Tk 400 million (25%), Saudi Grants for Tk 186 million (12%),
KfW loans for Tk 118 million (7%) and grants and credit from Belgium, India
and Sweden for Tk 294 million (18%). BSB is currently negotiating with NORAD
to administer a grant of US$2.0 million for small-scale industry and has also
entered into discussions with the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) for the
provision of equity funds for potential projects. As of June 30, 1980, BSB had
utilized most of its untied lines of credit and also substantial portions of
its bilateral credits. Currently, BSB has available US$35.6 million for
commitment against US$39.7 million of approvals. Some cancellations of prior
commitments may eventuate which would supplement resource availability;
nevertheless BSB is in need of new untied foreign exchange resources to meet
the substantial investment demand reflected in its project pipeline (paragraph
7.02).



- 21 -
4.04      Local Currency.  Of BSB's total taka resources of Tk 1.6 billion
(US$100.0 million), equity and reserves account for Tk 363 million (23%),
unrecognized borrowings 1/ Tk 448 million (28%), term deposits Tk 440 million
(27%), other deposits Tk 152 million (10%), and other facilities Tk 200
million (12%). While BSB's local currency resources have increased through
internal generation of funds, the main area of growth has been in the area
of fixed deposits, which have increased at an annual rate of about 30% since
FY76. This increase has been achieved by payment of interest rates one to
two percent over those given by the commercial banks. 2/ With the growth in
term deposits, BSB has improved the ratio of long/short term deposits from 2:1
in FY76 to 3:1 in FY80. Term deposits maturing over three years account for
about 80% of deposits. These term deposits provide a major part of BSB's
taka resources utilized for medium long term lending. Given the blend of BSB's
taka resources and the new rates of interest applicable to deposits, there is
a need for careful monitoring of its resources to ensure a matching of maturi-
ties. In its new Strategy Statement, BSB has indicated that it would develop
and implement such a system by July 1, 1981.
Resource Allocation
4.05      Lending Operations.  Allowing for the withdrawal of inactive project
applications, etc., BSB's net approvals for the period FY72-FY80 totalled
Tk 2.2 billion (US$137.5 million) or 83.5% of gross approvals. Foreign cur-
rency loan approvals increased from Tk 47.1 million (US$2.9 million) in FY76
to Tk 721.6 million (US$45.1 million) in FY80, while local currency loan
approvals increased from Tk 17.9 million (US$1.1 million) in FY76 to Tk 370.5
million (US$23.2 million) in FY80. Since FY72, the trend of BSB's sectoral
financing has reversed from predominantly public sector financing to wholly
private sector financing. As of June 30, 1975, the mix of BSB's operations
for FY72-FY75 was 62%-38% public/private sector financing, respectively. For
the period FY76-FY80, the mix was 2.0% and 98%, respectively. Of BSB's loan
financing, new clients accounted for 87% of total lending and exi'sting clients
13% (Annex 13).
4.06      Sectoral Distribution.  BSB's concentration on the private sector
over the past five years has enabled it to move toward a needed diversi-
fication of its lending activities (Annex 14). As of June 30, 1975, 61% (by
amount) of BSB's cumulative loan approvals had been directed to two industrial
sectors: textiles (51%) and food and allied products (10%). By June 30, 1980,
BSB's loan approvals had been spread over 19 subsectors with major concentra-
tions in food industries (21.6%), jute and allied fibres (17.1%), transporta-
tion (11.4%), paper products (11.2%) and cotton textiles (9.6%). Although
the jute industry is the principal industrial subsector in Bangladesh, BSB
has limited its investment in the sector to its inherited liabilities and
some supplemental BMR investments. Project applications are influenced by
1/   Term loans and obligations incurred by IDBP prior to December 1971 for
which BSB has not acknowledged liability.
2/   Under GOB's revised interest rate structure (paragraph 2.35'1 the dif-
ferential will no longer apply.



- 22 -
GOB's policies and incentives to promote industry in other subsectors and by
entrepreneurial interest, with most potential private sector investors turning
from trading operations to investment in low-risk, developed subsectors sup-
ported by established infrastructural facilities in areas such as Dacca and
Chittagong. However, while GOB policies and incentives influence investment
direction, BSB could do much more, through sectoral studies, preparation of
project profiles, etc., to identify and support viable attractive projects in
neglected subsectors and regions. The establishment of IPC should help iden-
tify potential projects in less-developed sectors for joint BSB/IPC financing.
4.07      Geographical Distribution.  In the period FY72-FY80, investment
was concentrated in Dacca and Chittagong which accounted for 80% by amount
of total approvals (Annex 15). Attempts to move industry out of these areas
to the less-developed areas has met with limited success, although there has
been a gradual decrease in approvals for Dacca/Chittagong-based projects since
FY76 with approvals falling from 92% of total approvals in FY76, to 74% in
FY80. BSB has concentrated its promotional activities on diversifying its
operations on a regional basis, giving emphasis to projects located in the
less developed areas of Rajshahi, Khulna and the Chittagong Hill Tracts.
4.08      Size of Loans.  BSB's operations are concentrated in the area of
small and medium-scale industrial projects with large-scale industry (i.e.,
projects above US$10.0 million) usually being financed by BSRS. The average
size of BSB's loans is about Tk 2.5 million (US$156,250) with a range from
Tk 150,000 (US$9,375) to Tk 100 million (US$6.25 million). Some 75 projects
each over Tk 5.0 million (US$312,500) accounted for 53% of BSB's operations
from FY72-FY80. However, the main range of BSB's operations was in loans from
US$20,000 to US$160,000.
4.09      Investments.  BSB's direct subscriptions and underwriting of shares
accounted for 0.3% of its total approvals since FY76, with subscriptions for
Tk 5.8 million (US$362,000) in FY79 accounting for the major part. Although
BSB's conditions of lending provide for conversion of BSB's loans into equity,
BSB has not exercised this right due mainly to the low initial equity capital-
ization of many projects (e.g., projects in less-developed areas may have a
debt/equity ratio of 3:1 with part of the equity held by ICB in the form of
bridging finance).
Development Activities
4.10      In addition to its general lending and investment activities, BSB
is carrying out a limited range of complementary activities and services to
increase its developmental impact. These services include: (i) identification
and promotion of new projects; (ii) preparation of project profiles; (iii)
project identification in backward and less-developed areas; and (iv) training
and advisory support to other domestic financing institutions (e.g., commercial
banking staff involved in small-scale industry development). Most of these
activities have been initiated since FY76 through the involvement of IDA, ADB
and KfW.
4.11      Developmental Impact.  Since FY76, BSB has been a significant con-
tributor to the financing of investment in the private sector accounting for



- 23 -
37% of foreign exchange investment from FY73-FY80 under GOB's First Five-Year
Plan and the Two-Year Plan. BSB calculates the internal financial rate of
return (IFRR) for all new projects and the internal economic rate of return
(IERR) on most large projects. As shown in Annex 16. of 40 projects sanc-
tioned by BSB since July 1, 1975, the ex ante IFRR ranged from 18% to 50% and
the ex ante IERR from 16% to 50% (on 20 projects). 1/ Until recently, BSB has
not calculated ex post economic rates of return, but with the implementation
of the Bank's Sub-project Data System it will calculate these for future
projects. On the basis of BSB's appraisal reports, the average iinvestment
cost per job is Tk 93,000 (US$5,812). 1/ No figures are available on indirect
employment effects which would increase employment creation considerably as
many of BSB's projects manufacture inputs for other companies. Annex 17 shows
indicators for a sample of projects financed under Credit 632-BD.
4.12      Project Promotion.  In early 1980, BSB established a Project Promo-
tion Section within the Appraisal Department. The section currently has five
full-time professionals (three engineers, an economist and a financial analyst)
assigned to it. BSB proposes to double the strength of the section by December
1980. At present, the section staff are working closely with the Ministry of
Industries on the preparation of project profiles for use in project develop-
ment. As of June 30, 1980, about 20 profiles had been completed and circulated
to Chambers of Commerce, the Commercial Banks and the Ministry. While the
Project Promotion Section has performed well, progress has been slower than
anticipated due, in part, to the shortage of experienced staff and insufficient
subsectoral economic analysis (paragraph 4.13). In addition to preparation of
profiles, BSB has been extensively, involved in project promotion in backward
and less-developed areas. BSB's aLctivities have included participation in
Ministry of Industries teams visiting backward areas to advising potential
entrepreneurs on project preparation and implementation, and financing of
small scale industry projects (i.e., those industries with assets, including
land, of less than Tk 2.5 million (US$156,250)). As of June 30, 1980, about
45% by number and 6% by amount (Tk 140.7 million) of its total net approvals
have been to small-scale projects. In FY79 and FY80 net approva:Ls totalled
Tk 39.7 million (US$2.5 million) and Tk 36.6 million (US$2.3 milLion),
respectively.
4.13      Economic Analysis and Sectoral Reviews.  While BSB has complied with
the requirement of GOB's industrial policies through its use of the Industrial
Investment Schedule and through its subproject appraisal process, it has made
little direct contribution to the development of GOB's policies or its own
policy of portfolio diversification through analysis of policy impact or sub-
sectoral policy issues.  However, if BSB is to fulfil its role in the promotion
of private sector investment, it must take a more active role in policy dev-
elopment, focusing on the problems and prospects of specific subsectors and
identifying and promoting manufactured exports. To achieve these objectives,
BSB should carry out a series of subsectoral studies based on the number of
loan applications pending in a particular sector, the volume of arrears, new
industries identified in GOB's Industrial Investment Schedule, and on BSB's own
assessment of sectors with high potential. The studies should not only look
1/   These include projects financed by ADB, KfW, etc.



- 24 -
at the demand/supply situation but should cover such elements as economic and
social significance, technical aspects, financial structure/profitability and
employment effects. Based on the findings, the reports should include specific
recommendations on actions to be taken, and on policy and operational changes,
if any, to be made by GOB/BSB. In view of the shortage of industrial econo-
mists in BSB's Economic Department with experience in sub-sectoral analysis,
BSB has agreed to engage an industrial economic advisor for 24 months to iden-
tify sectors for review, to work with counterpart staff to prepare sectoral
studies on BSB's main areas of operational concentration, and to train and
upgrade staff in BSB's Economic Department. Terms of Reference for the advisor
have been prepared and are satisfactory to IDA. Funds for this technical assis-
tance (estimated at US$250,000) would be sought initially from UNDP. However,
should these not be available, provision has been made in the proposed credit
for the funds required.
V. PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
Background
5.01      As of December 31, 1970, about 55% of IDBP's (BSB's predecessor)
loan portfolio was in the jute sector, 20% in textiles, and 25% in other
sectors (mainly food processing, printing and packaging, and service indus-
tries). About 25% of the portfolio was in arrears of three months or more.
Of BSB's jute sector loans only 6% were in arrears. By June 1975, due partly
to economic difficulties and partly to inadequate collection and follow-up
by BSB, the level of the portfolio in arrears increased to 50%, with about
60% of the portfolio with arrears of two years or more. In the jute industry,
about half the industry was insolvent and about 90% of BSB's loans were in
arrears. Of BSB's loans to the textile industry, about 50% were affected by
arrears.
5.02      In March 1976, during negotiations for Credit 632-BD, GOB agreed
to a major restructuring of jute industry loans financed by BSB prior to
December 31, 1971. Effective from January 1, 1976, the key elements in the
restructuring involved: (i) BSB's conversion and rescheduling of its foreign
currency loans in arrears as of December 31, 1975, and of the principal
falling due for repayment between January 1, 1976, and June 30, 1978, into
local currency loans; and (ii) the Government's assumption of a repayment
obligation to BSB in the event of a default (of principal and/or interest) by
the jute mills benefitting from the conversion and rescheduling arrangements.
These arrangements have proved sound, and GOB has met its obligation to cover
defaults, where necessary, ensuring payment to BSB through funds made avail-
able to the concerned jute mills.



- 25 -
Developments FY76-FY80
5.03      As a result of the restructuring of the jute industry liabilities
in FY76 and the implementation by GOB of capital restructuring programs 1/ for
the jute and textile industries under IDA's Sixth and Eighth Imports Program
Credits, the level of arrears and the percentage of BSB's portfolio affected
by arrears have shown a significant decrease (Annex 18). As of Jlne 30, 1976,
total arrears amounted to Tk 633 million (US$39.6 million) or 51.4% of the
portfolio, with 77% of the portfolio affected by arrears. By June 30, 1980,
the level of arrears had fallen to Tk 319 million (US$20.0 million) or 16.3%
of the portfolio with only 40% of the portfolio affected by arrears.
5.04      Annex 19 shows the characteristics of BSB's arrears as of June 30,
1980. The industries accounting for the major portion of arrears were:
food and allied products (17%), textiles (14%), printing and packaging (13%),
service industries (13%), small scale industries (BSCIC-sponsored projects)
(13%) 2/ and non-metallic mineral products (11%). Private sector projects
in arrears account for 78% (Tk 262 million) of total arrears and public
sector projects for 22% (Tk 75 million). An analysis of the private sector
portfolio shows that Tk 197.0 million or 68.3% of the arrears relate to pre-
independence loans, including 295 BSCIC-sponsored projects with arrears of
Tk 37.4 million. Post independence loans for projects still under construc-
tion account for Tk 40.0 million or 15.3% of private sector arrears, while
operational companies account for Tk 43.0 million or 16.4%.
5.05      Analyses of the public sector portfolio arrears shows that Tk 61.0
million or 85.6% relate to preindependence non-jute/textile advances. While
several of the units concerned are operational (e.g., in the chemical and
sugar sectors) most of the advances relate to: (i) abandoned/non--operational
units under the administrative control of the Sector Corporations; (ii) units
disinvested by GOB through the Disinvestment Board; and (iii) units under
the direct control of a non-profit making GOB agency (e.g., Public Works
Departments, Ministry of Information, etc.). Arrears on post-independence
advance account for Tk 10.1 million or 14.2% of non-jute/textile public sector
arrears. The advances concerned relate to units under the direct control of
GOB (e.g., Public Works Department, Ministry of Information).
5.06      In addition to action by GOB/IDA under the Eighth Imports Program
Credit to reduce the level of BSB's arrears, BSB has set annual ccllection
targets to monitor and control the level of arrears (Annex 20). Actual
performance against the targets was as follows:
1/   These programs provided for infusions of sufficient cash to allow the
Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) and the Bangladesh Textile
Mills Corporation (BTMC) to settle all amounts in arrears up to and
including payments due for FY80.
2/   These arrears are covered by a part guarantee whereby BSCIC will bear
75% of any loss or writing-off of the loan.



- 26 -
Dues           Collection Targets            Actual
Cash    Rescheduling    Total   Collections        %
-------------------(Tk millions)-------------------
FY76    733       45         430           475        100         21.1
FY77    902       80          75           155        656       423.0
FY78    460      130          50           180        220       122.2
FY79    513      183          50           230        171         74.0
FY80    774      240          55           295        455        154.0
Collections and reschedulings (with part payment of amounts due) generally
exceeded targets in each year, but because the targets were low in comparison
to amounts falling due, arrears did not fall as rapidly as expected. While
BSB's cash collection performance is encouraging, improving from 10% of amounts
falling due in FY76 to 59% in FY80, there is still a need for continued effort
to maintain and improve the level of collections. Actions agreed by GOB/IDA
(paragraph 5.09) should help in this regard.
5.07    While BSB's total collections have improved (mainly as a result of
GOB action to enforce payment of public sector arrears), collections from
the private sector (Annex 21), particularly for FY80, were considerably below
target with the result that the level of the private sector arrears increased
marginally after a slight reduction in FY79, although the level of the port-
folio affected by arrears continued to decrease as follows:
Private Sector Arrears
FY78       FY79        FY80
Companies in Arrears        582        563         586
Total Companies             596         612        705
% in Arrears               97.7       92.0        83.1
Arrears (Tk million)        129         154        262
Outstanding Principal       327         507        721
Total Portfolio             426         719      1,144
% Arrears                  30.3       21.4        22.9
% Portfolio Infected       76.8       70.5        63.0
5.08      Litigation Action.  As of June 30, 1980, BSB had 93 cases under
litigation for a total of Tk 116.5 million (US$7.3 million) or 47.7% of total
private sector arrears (Annex 22). About 68% of these cases were filed before
1978, with 15 cases dating back to the 1960s.
Arrears Collection and Control I/
5.09      Public Sector Arrears.  In addition to the debt servicing agreements
for BJMC and BTMC loans provided for under IDA's Eighth Imports Program Credit,
GOB/BSB have agreed on the following program:
1/   Where relevant, the arrears collection and control programs outlined,
would apply also to BSRS.



- 27 -
(a)  Any unit in default to BSB, and or any unit associated with
or controlling the unit in default would be ineligible for
further advances from BSB until a specific program to reduce
the arrears has been agreed to by GOB/BSB and implemented by
GOB. 1/ Such programs, which would include specific measures
to reduce costs and improve profitability, would be reviewed
by IDA during semi-annual meetings with GOB/BSB to monitor
BSB's performance against its collection targets (paragraph
5.12);
(b)  Past due obligations owed by any unit having an after tax
profit and a liquidity position sufficient to service its
debts as of June 30, 1980 shall be repaid prior to the
effectiveness of the proposed credit;
(c)  Past due obligation owed by the Disinvestment Board as of
June 30, 1980, shall be repaid prior to the effectiveness
of the proposed credit;
(d)  For any non profitable public sector enterprise in arrears
to BSB, GOB would implement a specific program to reduce
arrears with repayment of arrears guaranteed by GOB by
July 1, 1982;
(e)  Pending disposal by GOB of abandoned/non-operational units
with pre-independence loans, GOB shall allow BSB to defer
for up to two years its related repayment obligations to
GOB by an amount equal to any shortfall of collections.
During this period BSB would utilize all means available
to secure repayment. If the arrears have not been repaid
within two years, the amount outstanding would be offset
against BSB's liability to GOB.
(f)  Adequate provision would be made in the FY82 Budget to
repay the amounts past due upto and including those of
FY81 on pre- and post-independence advances to units tnder
the direct control of GOB/Ministries. Additionally GOB
would take such actions as are appropriate to ensure t:hat
future repayments would be met on schedule.
5.10      BSCIC-Sponsored Projects.  While small-scale industry loans to BSCIC
form part of BSB's portfolio, only 25% is at the risk of BSB, the remaining
75% (Tk 28.0 million) being at the risk of BSCIC. A joint BSB/BSCIC team has
reviewed each project to determine likely recovery of arrears (about 90% are in
arrears) and has made recommendations for writeoffs. With the restructuring
of BSCIC's responsibilities under IDA's Second Small Scale Industry Project
(Cr. 825-BD), amounts not recoverable will be written-off and tlhe risk-sharing
obligations honored. Satisfactory assurances have been provided by GOB under
1/   GOB's current policy is that generally, all funding of major public sec-
tor projects would be made ithrough the Annual Development Programs with
limited BMR/small scale investment being funded through the banking system.



- 28 -
Cr. 825-BD that GOB shall ensure payment by BSCIC of its risk-sharing obliga-
tions to BSB on the jointly financed small-scale loans within six months fol-
lowing the completion of the joint review of these loans, i.e., by August 31,
1981.
5.11      Private Sector Arrears.  With BSB's public sector portfolio removed
from risk (paragraph 5.09), a four part action program has been developed by
GOB/BSB/IDA to monitor and control the level of private sector arrears. The
program requires the prior clearance by BSB of import certificate applications
by BSB clients. This clearance requirement is already operational and has
begun to prove effective. The second part of the program required the amend-
ment of BSB's Charter to allow BSB to seize and sell mortgaged assets. The
amendment has been approved and BSB has initiated action against 10 sub-borrowers
who have been operating profitably for two years or more but who have refused
to make scheduled repayments on their loans. The third part of the program
provided for the introduction of a formal system, under the supervision of the
Bangladesh Bank (BB), of interbank cooperation to coordinate and control credit
allocations to common clients or companies in which BSB's clients have man-
agerial control. The system is now operational and provides for a monthly
review with the commercial banks of a "stop list" of defaulting BSB/BSRS
clients. The detailed procedures, for coordination on foreclosure action,
rescheduling and additional financing conditions, adopted by GOB/BB are satis-
factory. The fourth and final part of the program provided for the application
of higher penal interest rates to all new loans sanctioned or rescheduled
since January 28, 1981. On that date BSB adopted a revised penal interest
rate of 4.0% p.a. with a 50% remission of penal interest if arrears are paid
within one year. To ensure that BSB's combined interest and penal interest
charges remains at least equal to the combined interest/penal interest rates
of the commercial banking system, the penal interest rate will be adjusted
in line with any subsequent changes in the rates charged by the commercial
banks (paragraph 3.12).
5.12      Collection Targets.  BSB has prepared detailed collection targets
for FY81 for its private sector portfolio (Annex 23) and overall collection
targets for FY81-FY83 (Annex 24). The targets provide for the collection of
private sector dues as follows:
Amount        % of Amounts
Tk Million      Falling Due
FY79 (actual)              70              20
FY80 (actual)             83               24
FY81                      204              35
FY82                      313              47
FY83                     446               54
The targets are based on the assumption that the legal and administrative
procedures initiated by GOB/BSB (paragraph 5.11) will result in a significant
improvement in the private sector's attitude to repayments. The collection
targets set by BSB'include an element of rescheduling as part of overall
settlements with clients, under which the client would be required to make a
cash payment of at least 20% of amounts due and agree to a revised amortiza-
tion schedule that is related to the cash flow of the project. Given support



- 29 -
by GOB, rigorous follow up and rehabilitation of problem projects by BSB,
the targets are realistic and attainable. GOB/BSB have agreed ithat, until
January 1, 1985, BSB's performance against the targets would be monitored
every six months by way of a formal review with GOB/BSB officia:Ls and that
GOB/BSB would take such action as is appropriate to achieve the targets in
the ensuing period.
General
5.13      Investments.  As of June 30, 1980, BSB's investment portfolio totalled
Tk 156 million (FY76-Tk 73 million), comprising GOB bonds Tk 103 million (66%),
Treasury Receipts Tk 35 million (22%) and equity holdings of ordinary shares
of Tk 18 million (12%). Some 25% of BSB's equity investments were in companies
operating profitably and paying dividends. The balance of the equity investment
was in projects under construction or in operating difficulties. BSB's overall
investment portfolio has been reviewed by its auditors who have certified that
the investments are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
5.14      Provisions.  As of June 30, 1980 BSB's portfolio tota:Lled Tk 2.2
billion. However, because repayment of loans to the jute and textile sectors
has been guaranteed by GOB, BSB itself is carrying the risk on only Tk 1.1
billion (US$68.8 billion) or 50% of the portfolio. As of June 30, 1980,
cumulative provisions against non-payment of principal and interest totalled
Tk 187.5 million or 9% of the total loan and investment portfolio. This
amount has been determined by a project-by-project analysis of l:he portfolio,
including a review of collateral securities, carried out by BSB's joint
auditors. In addition, BSB has not taken into account interest accrued on bad
and doubtful debts. On the basis of BSB's portfolio risk, the provision repre-
sents a coverage of 17%, which is satisfactory. In its Strategy Statement, BSB
has indicated that it would maintain its provision for bad and doubtful debts
at not less than 10% of its total loan and investment portfolio..
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Profitability
6.01      Annex 25 summarizes BSB's income statements for FY76-FY80.  The
growing level of BSB's loans has resulted in an increase in loan income from
Tk 143.0 million in FY76 to Tk 218.5 million in FY80. However, margins have
been squeezed by increased financing charges, and interest rates on deposits
one to two per cent higher than those of the commercial banks. Since FY76,
the cost of term debt as a percentage of average debt has risen from 5.0%
p.a. (FY76) to 7.4% p.a. (FY80). Operating expenses have been held steady.
Financial costs as a percentage of average total assets have been held to
5.2%, while administrative expenses have remained at about 1.0%. For FY76-
FY80, BSB's profits after provision for taxes and bad and doubtEul debts
increased in line with growth of total assets rising from Tk 15.8 million
(US$1.0 million) in FY76 to Tk 20.6 million (US$1.3 million) in FY80, maintain-
ing a 1.0% return on average totaLl assets. Net profits have been computed
after the provision of imputed interest on BSB's "unrecognized" pre-independence
liabilities which have financed about 50% of BSB's loan portfolio. Profits



- 30 -
after tax and provision for bad debts as a percentage of average equity have
remained at about 20.0%. The rate of dividend has remained constant at 5.0%
on equity.
6.02      While BSB has operated profitably since FY76, the weighted average
margin on the use of resources has been squeezed by increases in the average
cost of funds, particularly the cost of term deposits.In FY79, the average
cost of BSB's deposits was 8.5%, while the average return on taka loans and
investments was 8.14%, resulting in a marginal negative spread of 0.36%, on
local currency operations. This situation improved slightly in FY80 when
the average cost of deposits increased to 9.44% (due to the higher proportion
of term deposits on which BSB pays 1% above commercial bank rates), while the
weighted average on loans and investments increased to 10.45%, giving BSB a
positive interest spread on taka deposit resources of 1.1%.
6.03      GOB's recent adjustment of the interest rate structure (paragraph
3.12) should help BSB maintain a positive spread on its operations. However,
the changes are not sufficient to give BSB the spread necessary to maintain
its shareholders' funds in real terms, and build up its debenture redemption
funds, special reserves and provision for bad and doubtful debts. This being
so, BSB may need assistance from GOB in the future, to meet its obligations
as they fall due, and to cover any losses from the writing off of accounts
in arrears. Applying the new interest rates to BSB operations in FY80-FY81,
cost of funds (local and foreign currency) for FY81 are projected at 7.12%
against a projected return on operations of 10.93% giving a spread of 3.81%.
To maintain its general financial position and shareholders funds in real
terms, BSB requires an overall onlending rate of at least 14.0% with a mini-
mum spread of 6.0%-7.0% to cover:
(a) operating profit equal to interest spread times average
total assets;
(b)  from operating profit deduct:
- administrative expenses (1.0% of average total assets);
- income tax at 60% on net profits before charging provisions;
-  incremental charge to maintain provision for bad debts
at 10% of year end portfolio;
- debenture redemption sinking fund charge;
- dividend payment of 6% on issued share capital; and
- retained earnings equal to 12.5% of shareholders' funds.
6.04      GOB has recognized the need for BSB to maintain onlending rates
which are positive in real terms. Accordingly, GOB has agreed that the
onlending rate for taka currency loans would (i) initially be maintained at
not less than 14.0% p.a.; (ii) reviewed at least annually; and (iii) adjusted
as necessary to maintain the rate positive in real terms and consistent with



- 31 -
the overall rates applicable to the industrial sector.  Additionally, GOB
has agreed that the onlending rate for the proposed credit would be reviewed
annually and adjusted as necessary during the period of credit commitment.
Liquidity
6.05      As of June 30, 1980, 21% (Tk 554 million) of BSB's total assets
were invested in liquid assets, maintaining the level of investment existing
in FY76. The liquid assets are funded primarly from domestic deposits which
have increased from Tk 230 million (FY76) to Tk 592 million (FY80) or by an
annual average rate of 39%. The weighted average term of deposits is about
2.25 years. As with the commercial banks, BSB is required to maintain a 25%
liquidity reserve against its deposits. Since FY76, BSB's liquid assets have
been well in excess of this requirement, which is not sound financial mange-
ment. The mobilization of deposits and their investment in funds on call or
fixed deposit with the commercial banks has not been profitable to BSB, as
BSB's net rate of return has ranged from a negative 0.5% p.a. in FY76 to about
1.0% p.a. in FY80. The mobilization of deposits has, however, allowed BSB to
avoid liquidity difficulties arising from its poor collection performance
(paragraph 5.07) and has provided a reserve of cash resources should BSB have
been required to meet the repayment conditions on recognized and unrecognized
pre-independence borrowings (paragraph 6.05). The use of short-term deposit
funds to service long-term liabilities is potentially dangerous unless there
is a careful monitoring of deposits and long-term loans/debt payments.  Effec-
tive implementation of the program to reduce arrears (paragraph 5.11) should
improve BSB's liquidity position. However, the benefits of this program are
not likely to be immediate, and there is a need to monitor carefully BSB's
liquidity position (paragraph 7.10).
Financial Position
6.06      Pre-independence Liabilities.  After the independence of Bangladesh,
IDBP, BSB's predecessor, continued to make principal and interest payments on
about Tk 500 million (US$31.3 miLlion), of long-term loans represented by
projects in Bangladesh. Subsequently, GOB has accepted the liability to
service some of these loans and is negotiating repayment terms and conditions
on the balance. Pending recognition of the balance of the loans by GOB, BSB
has "without prejudice" recorded the loans due in its book of accounts and has
set aside principal and interest payments due on the loans in accordance with
the original repayment schedules. As of June 30, 1980, the balance on the
Inherited Liabilities Account was Tk 447.9 million (US$28 million) of which
Tk 233.0 million (US$14.1 million) had not been recognized by GOB. Based upon
the original terms of these unrecognized loans, Tk 233.0 million (US$14.1 mil-
lion) has now fallen due for repayment. However, GOB has confirmed to IDA
that when unrecognized loans are recognized, GOB shall allow BSB to repay
the amount so recognized over a period of at least five years or such longer
period as may be agreed by GOB.  The repayment period should reflect the terms
and conditions of settlement agreed between GOB and the Donor, and the need to
maintain BSB's debt servicing ratio at 1.2:1.
6.07      Annex 26 summarizes BSB's balance sheets for FY76-FY80.  Total assets
have grown from Tk 1.5 billion (US$93.8 million) in FY76 to Tk 2.8 billion



- 32 -
(US$175 million) in FY80 or by an annual average rate of 20%. During the
same period, BSB's long term portfolio grew at a slightly lower rate of
16.5% with current assets increasing by 28% annually. The structure of BSB's
assets and liabilities has remained stable over the past five years. Paid-up
capital has remained constant since FY76 at Tk 100 million. BSB's net worth
would have increased from Tk 237 million in FY76 to Tk 572 million in FY80;
however, a decision by the Ministry of Finance to disallow for tax purposes,
BSB's annual appropriations of profits to provide for losses on bad and
doubtful debts resulted in an adjustment of prior year profits by Tk 210
million, reducing net worth to Tk 362.0 million. As part of the tax decision,
GOB has provided BSB with Tk 50.0 million, in the form of additional equity,
to meet part of its revised tax liabilities. As of June 30, 1980, BSB's net
worth (after adjustment for back taxes), was Tk 550.0 million (US$34.4 million)
or 25% of its total loan and investment portfolio compared to 27% in FY76.
BSB's debt/equity ratio is currently 4.7:1 (Annex 27) which is within the
contractual limit of 5:1. BSB's operational ratios for FY76-FY80 are shown
in Annex 28.
Accounting and Auditing
6.08      As required under Credit 632-BD, a UNDP financed accounting advisor
assisted BSB to reorganize and strengthen its loan and general accounting
operations. After some initial difficulties in FY78-FY79, the procedures
now facilitate a prompt, detailed analysis of portfolio operations, arrear
levels and balance sheet preparation. BSB's financial statements are audited
annually by two local firms of chartered accountants. GOB, which is respons-
ible for appointing BSB's auditors, follows a policy of changing auditors
every three years. Apart from the statutory audit or "short-term" audit report
which is submitted to the Ministry of Finance, the auditors also prepare and
submit to IDA a "long-form" audit report, including an assessment of the
quality and collectibility of the loan and equity portfolios. The long-form
audit reports for FY76-FY79 have been presented without qualification. BSB's
external auditing arrangements are satisfactory, although extended delays
have occurred in the preparation and submission to IDA of the long-form audit
reports. For FY80, GOB/BSB attempted to rectify this situation through con-
tinuity and early appointment of auditors. However, the FY80 long-term audit
is still delayed.
VII. PROSPECTS
General Outlook
7.01      The gradual shift of GOB's industrial policy from near total public
sector control to that of a more mixed economy, has helped created a more
favorable climate for private sector investment although this has yet to be
reflected by a significant increase in the level of actual investment vis a
vis project sanctions. For the immediate future, the SFYP includes additional
measures (e.g., the removal of private sector investment restrictions in a
number of subsectors) that should encourage further private sector investment.



- 33 -
In addition, GOB has announced specific support for agro-based industries,
textile processing and finishing, light engineering, transportation and stor-
age facilities. Although GOB's targets for private sector investment under
the Plan are optimistic, a continuation of the current trend of investment
by the private sector would still result in a significant demand for project
financing over the next three to five years. Currently, the three development
financing institutions (BSB, BSRS and ICB) together have project pipelines of
about Tk 5.0 billion (US$312.0 million) with an annual average inflow of new
project applications of about Tk 5.5 billion (US$344.0 million).
Projected Operations
7.02      Project Pipeline.  As of June 30, 1980, after discounting projects
no longer considered active, BSB had a "conservative" project pipeline (Annex
29) of 406 projects with a total investment cost of Tk 1.9 billion (US$118.8
million) of which Tk 1.1 billion (US$68.8 million) was in foreign exchange.
Of the pipeline 98.5% (in value) are private sector projects and 1.5% public
sector projects. Based on the proposals currently under preparation and
appraisal, it is expected that about 15 subsectors will receive financial
assistance, with food and allied industries accounting for Tk 508 million
(27%), cotton textiles for Tk 240 million (13%), service industries for Tk 230
million (12%), cargo transport for Tk 206 million (11.0%), pharmaceutical for
Tk 130 million (7%) and printing and packaging for Tk 110 million (6%). Of
the pipeline, about 30% by number and about 10% by amount relate to projects
under the defined ceiling for small scale industry. Thus the proposed credit
would provide financing for small scale industry additional to that available
under IDA's Third Small Scale Industry Project. The pipeline is concentrated
on Dacca and Chittagong although there is an indication from more recent
project submissions that more investment is planned in the Khulna and Rajshahi
areas. The bias towards concentration of projects in Dacca and Chittagong
should be eased by BSB's efforts to promote projects in the less-developed
areas through the preparation of project profiles and promotional visits to
the regions.
7.03      Cargo Transport.  As noted in paragraph 7.02 above BSB is currently
processing applications for Tk 206 million (US$12.9 million) for cargo trans-
port (mainly barges for the distribution of fertilizer to the agriculture
sector). However, on the basis of incentives proposed by GOB and under GOB's
"crash" program to increase fertilizer distribution capacity, it is expected
that a large proportion of new project application during FY81-82 will be for
this type of project. Financing f-or road and water transportation facilities
has been and would continue to be available from BSB for these projects and
this sector has been given priority in BSB's operating strategy for FY81-FY83.
However, given the poor repayment performance of the transport s,ector, any
new involvement by BSB would be on a very selective basis. The funds under
the proposed credit would be available for financing barge fleet owners (i.e.
3 barge or more, each of a dwt of more than 250 tons), and would supplement
the US$4.5 million available for private sector transport operations under
IDA's Third Small Scale Industries Credit and the existing credit facilities
of Tk 450 million. (US$28.1 million) from the commercial banking system.
7.04      Lending Operations.  Although BSB has a large pipeline and antici-
pates a heavy demand for project financing in the immediate future, BSB



- 34 -
has based its operational forecasts on assumptions which are realistic and
attainable (Annex 30). Annex 31 shows BSB's forecast of approvals, commit-
ments and disbursements for FY81-FY85. Both foreign and local currency
approvals are expected to increase steadily as indicated below:
(Tk Million)
Actual            Projected
FY79    FY80      FY81    FY82    FY83
Net Approvals
Foreign Currency             214     650        535      705     825
Local Currency               236     335        540      570      575
450     985      1,075   1,275   1,400
Commitments
Foreign Currency             204     248        510      700     660
Local Currency               169     223        515      585     460
373     471      1,025   1,285   1,120
Disbursements
Foreign Currency             155      91        365      560     560
Local Currency               126     261        360      470      395
281     352        725   1,030      955
% Commitment/Approval         83      48         95      101       80
% Commitment/Disbursement   75        75         71       80       85
7.05      Based on BSB's project pipeline, net approvals for FY81 (Tk 1,075
million) are forecast to be about 10% above those in FY80, and are expected
to increase thereafter by about 12% p.a. There is a considerable backlog
of uncommitted approvals on hand and it is expected that these and new appli-
cations, particularly in the priority areas of fertilizer transportation and
storage, will be committed rapidly with the availability of commitment author-
ity under the proposed credit; BSB, therefore, anticipates a significant
increase of 117% in actual commitment during FY81, with an annual average
increase thereafter of about 8%.
Resource Requirements
7.06      Foreign Currency.  As of June 30, 1980, BSB had foreign currency
resources of US$33.6 million available for commitment. Against this amount,
BSB has approved projects of US$39.7 million awaiting commitment. Allowing
for withdrawals of about US$2.0 million, BSB has a shortfall in commitment
authority of US$4.1 million. The proposed credit would partially cover BSB's
current foreign exchange resource requirements in the period up to February
1983 (i.e., about 2 years after loan effectiveness). Commitments for this
period are expected to be about US$112.0 million resulting in a resource gap
of US$116.0 million to be financed by IDA, ADB, KfW, Saudi Grants, and addi-
tional bilateral borrowings (Annex 32). Since about US$60.0 million is
expected to be available from ADB, KfW and the Saudi Fund, an IDA credit of
US$50.0 million would be needed to meet BSB's resource requirements.



- 35 -
7.07      Local Currency.  Annex 32 shows BSB's projected taka currency
resources for FY81-FY85.  To supplement internal generation of ftnds and col-
lections, BSB has projected that it will obtain a Tk 380 million credit from
Bangladesh Bank in FY82 and a further Tk 200 million in FY83. BSB's local
currency resource flow for FY81-FY82 is summarized as follows:
(Tk Millions)
Actual            Projected
FY80           FY81       FY82
Cash available for disbursement    213                299         72
Sources
Internal Cash Generation               75              60         79
Collections                           151              99        108
Deposits                              124             104         86
BB Credits                             -               -         380
Equity                                 -               50         -
Other Items                            73              68         32
637            680        757
Uses
Disbursements                         261             360        470
Repayments                             28              95        156
Equity Investment/Other                49             153         76
338            608        702
Balance for Disbursement              299              72         55
Financial Projections
7.08      During FY81-FY85, BSB's financing charges are projected to remain at
about 5% of annual average assets, while administration expenses are projected
to remain constant at about 1% of annual average assets. At these levels and
on the basis of GOB's recently announced changes in term lending rates, BSB
projects that after tax profits will increase from Tk 40.4 million in FY80 to
Tk 153 million in FY85 (Annex 33). The increases in after tax profit will
enable BSB to build up its provisions for bad debts but may not be sufficient
to add substantially to its general and special reserves. This position
would, however, be monitored closely during GOB's annual review of BSB's
interest rates and spread.
7.09      As a result of the expected increase in lending operations, total
assets are expected to grow from Tk 2.8 billion (US$175.0 million) in FY80 to
Tk 6.4 billion (US$400.0 million) in FY85, an annual average growth rate of
18% p.a. (Annex 34). Thrt loan and equity portfolio would increase by about
the same rate, rising from Tk 2.6 billion (US$162.5 million) in FY81 to Tk 5.6
billion (US$350.0 million) in FY85. Shareholders funds are expect:ed to remain
at about 11% of the portfolio. The projected increase of Tk 50.0 million in
BSB's equity noted in paragraph 7.07 was made in February 1981. With this infu-
sion, BSB's debt equity ratio should remain below the contractual level of 5.1.
7.10      Annex 35 shows BSB's projected cash flows for FY81-FY85.  With the
aid of the arrears control programrr developed with IDA, BSB expects to achieve



- 36 -
a collection ratio by FY85, of about 50%, which is realistic. During FY81-
FY85 BSB anticipates maintaining a satisfactory liquidity position. On the
assumption of meeting its collection targets, BSB's debt service coverage
ratio would remain at about 1.3, which is satisfactory. However, should BSB
be required to service the interest and principal repayments on inherited
liabilities, the debt service coverage ratio would fall below 1.0, which would
not be satisfactory (Annex 36). To ensure that BSB is able to service its
debts, GOB/BSB have agreed that GOB and BSB will take appropriate action,
such as rescheduling loan repayments, etc., necessary to establish and main-
tain BSB's debt servicing ratio at 1.2:1.
VIII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Objectives
8.01      The objectives of the proposed credit are to:  (i) contribute to
GOB's objectives of expanding the private sector's role in industrial invest-
ment in non-traditional export-oriented industries, efficient import substi-
tution industries and projects in less-developed areas; (ii) continue IDA's
involvement with the institutional development of BSB, with particular
emphasis on BSB's economic and sectoral promotional activities; and (iii)
develop an integrated monitoring and control system of legal instruments and
interbank coordination to reduce the level of private sector arrears on term
loans from the banking system.
Lending Scheme
8.02      The proposed credit for US$50.0 million would be made to GOB for
onlending to BSB under standard IDA terms for credits to development finance
companies, including the normal commitment fee of 0.75% p.a. The proceeds of
the credit would be relent by BSB to cover the foreign exchange costs of
public and private sector projects in the industrial sector. If UNDP funds
are not available for the purpose, BSB would utilize about US$250,000 of the
credit to finance the services of an industrial economist for 24 months to:
(i) establish the guidelines for carrying out subsectoral studies; and (ii)
assist in the completion of subsectoral studies in BSB's main areas of concen-
tration. The credit is expected to be fully committed within two years of
effectiveness and to be disbursed within five years (Annex 37). Thus, the
expected closing date of the credit would be April 30, 1986.
Terms and Conditions
8.03      Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk on the credit would be
passed on to the sub-borrower as under the previous BSB credit.
8.04      Interest.  The onlending rate from GOB to BSB would be at 9.0% p.a.
with BSB onlending to sub-borrowers at a rate of 14.0% p.a. BSB would pay GOB
a commitment fee of 0.75% p.a. which would be recovered from sub-borrowers by
way of a commitment fee of 1.0% p.a. on the subloan requirement payable from
the date of sub-loan commitment to disbursement. The commitment fee would
accrue 60 days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, to the date



- 37 -
on which the funds are withdrawn by BSBo  GOB has agreed that during the
period of commitment of the credit, BSB's onlending rate would be reviewed
annually and adjusted if necessary to ensure that it remain positive in real
terms and consistent with rates for foreign currency lending to t-he industrial
sector (paragraph 6.04).
8.05      Amortization.  Repayments to GOB by BSB would be on a f-lexible
amortization schedule in approximate conformity with the repayments received
by BSB from sub-borrowers. The repayment period for individual sub-loans
would not exceed 15 years plus a grace period of 3 years.
8.06      Free Limit.  Under Credit 632-BD, subprojects with a foreign exchange
requirement of US$150,000 or more were subject to IDA's prior review before
disbursement against BSB's foreign exchange withdrawal application. Of 108
subprojects utilizing the IDA credit, 40 (US$19.3 million or 77% of the credit)
were reviewed by IDA prior to approval of the withdrawal application. This
review provided IDA with an additional opportunity to monitor and comment on
the standard of BSB's project appraisal and BSB's concentration of investment
in a limited number of subsectors. Given the current state of BSB's project
appraisals (paragraph 3.13) and BSB's lack of sectoral analysis, subproject
reviews should be continued. In order to reflect the increase inl capital
goods' costs that has taken place since 1976, the free limit for project
reviews should be increased to US$300,000. Based on BSB's current pipeline,
this would allow IDA to review about 25% by number and about 50% by amount
of BSB's project applications.
8.07      Eligibility.  Under Credit 632-BD both public and private sector
enterprises were eligible for financing. However, requests for IDA financing
of public sector projects in the jute, textile and pulp and paper sectors were
referred back to BSB, pending completion of studies to determine their long-
term development requirements specified under IDA's ongoing import program
credits. 1/ The study of the jute industry has been completed and a sector
credit approved to finance the rehabilitation of the industry. 2/ An apprai-
sal of a sector credit for the rehabilitation of the textile industry is
currently in process and is expected to be presented to the Board for approval
in FY82. As project financing has been arranged or is under consideration for
these industries, public sector units in these sectors will not be eligible
for financing under the proposed credit. Other public sector projects would
be considered on the basis of their financial and economic merits. Service
industries, such as hotels, restaurants, cinemas and wholesale and retail
trading operations will not be eligible for financing under the credit.
8.08      Accounting and Audit.  BSB's present arrangements for accounting
and the audit of its accounts are satisfactory (paragraph 6.07) and will be
continued under the proposed credit.
1/   Under IDA's Credit 632-BD and ADB's credits to BSB, BSB is riot able to
finance projects in the jute and textile sector pending completion of
the required studies.
2/   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project - Cr 1032-BD.



- 38 -
8.09      Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for projects to be
financed under the credit would be in accordance with BSB's standard procedures
for items below US$500,000 and with IDA's procurement guidelines for contracts
of US$500,000 or more (paragraph 3.16). Disbursement would be for 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported goods and services and
100% of all expenditure for consultancy services. In accordance with standard
DFC practices, project expenditure incurred up to 90 days prior to IDA's
receipt of a sub-loan application would be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the credit.
Project Benefits and Risk
8.10      Benefits.  The proposed credit would help bridge the gap in the avail-
ability of foreign exchange term loans to finance the capital goods requirement
of industrial sector projects and would contribute to the desirable increase
in the level of private sector involvement in industrial development. Sub-
loan beneficiaries would be mainly medium-sized private firms starting up new
ventures in export-oriented industries, transportation and storage (particu-
larly of agro- and agro-industrial products), etc. Based on the experience
under IDA's first credit, ADB's second credit and an analysis of the project
pipeline,about 95% of the credit will be used on private sector projects, with
about 30% of the projects located in the less-developed areas.  Small scale
industry will also benefit, with about 5% by value of the credit used for this
subsector. Direct employment generated is projected to be about 13,500 full
time jobs with a job/cost ratio of about Tk 108,000 (US$6,750). Sample indica-
tors of financial and economic rates of return for projects in the pipeline
indicate projected IFRRs of about 30% and IERRs of about 50%.
8.11      Risks.  The main risks associated with the proposed credit concern
the investment climate and BSB's arrears. While GOB is projecting a signifi-
cant increase in the level.of private sector investment, this would be dependent
upon continued stability in the economy and a more positive translation of GOB's
policy intentions into actual incentives, etc. In the area of BSB's arrears
and liquidity, there is a risk that the actions now being implemented (paragraph
5.11) may not result in the expected level of improvements from the private
sector, although results to date are considered satisfactory. If improvements
are not achieved, BSB's liquidity position could come under some pressure and
BSB may require support from the Bangladesh Bank to meet its repayment commit-
ments. However, at present, the prospects for increased participation by the
private sector in industrial investment and for BSB's stability appear good.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.01      A US$50.0 million IDA credit is recommended, of which US$49.750
million would be utilized for the import of goods and services, and US$0.250
million for technical assistance as described in paragraph 8.02.
9.02      GOB/BSB have agreed to the following terms and conditions:



- 39 -
GOB/BSB
(a) that, by December 31, 1981, GOB shall have taken appropriate
action to implement agreed revisions to the Investment
Approval procedures (paragraph 2.21);
(b)  that GOB/BSB shall introduce the following measures to sup-
port BSB's collection efforts:
-    a bar on lending to any enterprise in arrears, or
to any enterprise associated with, or controlling
any enterprise in arrears to BSB, until the defaul-
ting enterprise has taken action satisfactory to
BSB and IDA to reduce such arrears (paragraph 5.09);
-    that, for any non profitable public sector enter-
prise in arrears to BSB, GOB would implement a
specific program to repay arrears by 1982 with
repayment guaranteed by GOB by July 1, 1982,
(paragraph 5.09);
-    pending disposal by GOB of abandoned/non opera-
tional enterprises under the control of Public
Sector Corporations, GOB shall allow BSB to defer
for up to two years its related obligations to
GOB. If arrears have not been repaid within
two years, any amounts due to BSB shall be offset
against BSB's obligations to GOB (paragraph 5.09);
and
-    that adequate provision would be made in GOB's
FY82 Budget to allow payment of amounts past due,
up to and including those of FY81, on pre- and
post-independence advances to units under the
direct control of GOB/Ministries (paragraph
5.09);
(c) a formal six monthly review meeting with GOB/BSB officials to
monitor BSB's performance against its targets for collection
of amounts falling due from the private sector (paragraph
5.12);
(d) that BSB's onlending rates for taka currency loans would ini-
tially be maintained at not less than 14.0% p.a.; and would
be reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary to maintain
the rate positive in real terms and consistent with the
overall ratio applicable to the industrial sector (paragraph
6.04);
(e) GOB and BSB shall take such actions as are necessary to main-
tain BSB's debt servicing ratio at 1.2:1 (paragraph 7.10);



- 40 -
(f) adoption of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and
BSB providing inter alia for:
-    assumption of the foreign exchange risk by the sub-
borrower (paragraph 8.03);
-    an onlending rate from GOB to BSB of 9.0% (para-
graph 8.04);
-    an onlending rate from BSB to subborrowers of not
less than 14.0%, with the rate reviewed at least
annually during the period of commitment of the
credit and adjusted if necessary to ensure that it
remains positive in real terms and consistent with
rates for foreign currency term loans to the
industrial sector (paragraph 8.04);
-    the payment by BSB of a commitment fee of 0.75% p.a. on
the undisbursed credit balance (paragraph 8.04); and
-    the payment to BSB by subborrowers of a commitment
fee of 1.0% p.a. on the undisbursed subproject credit
balance (paragraph 8.04); and
BSB
(g)  engagement by BSB on TOR's acceptable to IDA, of an
industrial economist for 24 months to identify sectors
for review, to assist in the preparation of subsectoral
studies, and to train and upgrade BSB's Economic Staff
(paragraph 4.13);
9.03      Implementation of the following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  the adoption by BSB of a revised organization structure
(including the recruitment of a third general manager) in
accordance with an implementation schedule satisfactory
to IDA (paragraph 3.08);
(b)  payment of past due obligations owed by the Disinvestment
board to BSB as of June 1980 (paragraph 5.09);
(c)  payment of past due obligations, owed to BSB by any unit
having an after tax profit and a liquidity position as of
June 30, 1980 sufficient to service its debts (paragraph
5.09);
(d)  that BSB shall have a debt equity ratio of not more than 5:1
(paragraph 6.07); and
(e)  adoption of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and BSB.



- 41  -                                                    ANNEX  :i
BANGLADESH
1M0VSTRl_L PBODUCTI0:N INDICES
(i9'9/7C    100)
Ind,istry Gror  /Whduitr                        Weight X       1974/75       1975/76      1976/77       19i7/78       1978/79
Focd. Indu2ry                                    10.45          104.5         102.0         138.1        160.8         136.2
P:sh Processing                                 0.40           87.9         163.1        241.4         209.7         249.1
Flour Milling                                   0.43          102.9        110.9          90.9          95.4          90.4
Bakeries                                        0.59          104.4          91.4         96.7         121.7         154.7
Sugar                                           4.95          109.4         96.6         154.4         196.2         146.2
Edible Oil and Fats                             0.49           78.6        107.3         146.5         16t.8         131.7
Tea                                             2.55          100.8        106.5         114.1         117.9         114.6
Vegetable Ghee                                  1.04          100.1          93.0        118.7         127.5         108.9
Eeverag_ Industries                               0.89          113.3         113.7        112.0         146.7         196.2
Distilling and Spirits                          0.47          126.4        139.7         140.8         182.4         242.1
Soft Drinks                                     0.42           98.6          84.7          79.8        108.2         144.9
Tobacco Industery                                13.65           87.8         100.1          97.8        100.7         113.8
Textile Manufacturing                            47.39           95.3          93.7          92.3        105.5         103.1
Cotton Textile                                 22.57          10i4.2        92.1          86.6         102.6         106.2
jute Te-,tile                                  24.27           87.5          95.9         98.2         109.2         100.8
Rayon and other silk,                           0.55           76.5         57.1          66.7          61.2          73.3
aeppr end Paper PrGduicts                         0.95          118.4          80.6          95.1        125.8         128.5
Paper Products                                  0.52          128.3         85.4         114.1         136.3         136.4
Nevsprint                                       3.29          i08.8          75.8         55.1         104.4         127.0
Paper Board                                     0.14         101.6           72.5        107.8         131.1         102.4
Chemical and Chesical Products                   10.46           69.1         108.8         116.8        108.9         137.3
Chse-nical Fertilizers                          4.07           36.9        115.7         118.6          89.R         123.8
in i-atrial Chermical                           0.17           94.0         80.6          75.6          95.3         173.7
Paint and Varnish                               0.22           59.4          74.8         81.7          98.8         105.7
Drugs and Medicine                              2.84           97.9        105.7         112.4         127.4         150.1
Matches                                         2.08          100.4        110.3         121.9         129.6         147.0
Insecticide                                    0.28            96.6         53.4         146.6         168.6         174.2
Petroleum Products                                1.42          232.0         253.3        297.7         289.6         309.7
Non Metallic Minerals                             0.74          213.4         257.0        484.2         537.2         534.3
Glass Manufacturing                             0.16          300.5          97.9        101.7         132.2         230.8
Cement                                          0.58          244.6        300.9         589.7         649.0         648.0
Iron and Steel                                   10.09          104.5        128.4         143.6         155.6         198.6
Non Electric Mac,hinery_                          0.40          230.7          60.9          93.4         67.9          98.3
Electric Machinery                                0.89          117.6         134.4        191.5         272.6         334.8
Electric Motors                                 0.12          120.3         64.5          59.1          53.7          32.1
Eiecteic Fans                                   0,37          133.4        119,6         149.4         198.1         237.8
Electric Lamp                                   0.02          119.0        126.0         181.5         237.0         262.5
Coasunication Equipment                         0.27          105.0        154.8         255.4         413.1         473.0
Cables arnd Wires                               0.11           92.4        212.5         308.2         423.3         503.4
Transport Equipment                               0.28          100.9          78.9        162.7         111.7         115.9
Shipbuilding                                    0.04         145.0          50.5         148.6         134.2          83.3
Motor Vehicles                                  0.15           53.7          50.8      - 167.9          37.5          51.5
Cycles and Rickshaws                            0.09          160.1        162.2         160.6         224.9         237.8
General Index of Manuifacturiug                 lob.oo           97.6         104.9        113.7         124.6         132.2
Public Industry                                76.87          100.0        105.4         114.0         125.3         128.0
Pr vate Industry                               23.13           89.5        103.4         112.5         122.5         146.1
Annual change in General Index (%)                              -i.4           7.5           8.4          9.7           6.0
Note:  These indices cover approximratn1, 93% cf value added in manufacturing.  Excluded are, among others,
the manufactutilg of tootwear, leather, furniture, sntal products, printing and publishing, as well
.s all small anid cottage industries (which include spinning, dyeing and handloom weaving).
Source: Bangladesh Buireau of StatistJcs.



BANGLADESH
Production of Selected Industrial Items
FY70 - FY80
1/
Item                  Unit                     FY70     PY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80      Ratio
Jute Goods
Hessian              Thousand tons               228       161       166       177       175      191       0.84
Sacking              Thousand tons               279       221       227       265       232      248       0.89
Carpet Backing       Thousand tons                33        71        70        76        76       77       2.33
Cotton Yarn                Million Pounds             106        88        82        90        97        95       0.90
Cotton Cloth               Million Yards               59        75        68        83        85        89       1.51
Sugar                      Thousand tons               93        86       140       175       131        93       1.00
Caustic Soda               Tons                      3352      4122      5019      5606      5415      5600       1.67
Cement                     Thousand tons               53       157       308       339       322       336       6.34
Fertilizer                 Thousand tons               99.0    329.4    337.7    255.7    352.4    431.2    4.36
Ammonium Sulphate        Thousand tons                4.7       5.7       9.1       9.3       5.2       9.4    2.00
TSP                      Thousand tons                -        48.2      47.2      37.7      57.1      66.4    n.a.
Urea                     Thousand tons               94.3    275.5    281.3    208.7    290.1    355.3    3.77
Motor Vehicles
Assembled 2/             Number                     455       555       780       825       975      1512       3.32
Paper and Newsprint        Thousand tons                78       40        41        59        65        69       0.88
Soap                       Thousand tons                 8.7      8.3       7.5      11.1      16.8    n.a.       n.a.
Steel Ingots               Thousand tons               54.00    90.41   107.72   116.92   126.37   137.56   2.55
1/ FY80 over FY70
2/ Buses, cars, trucks, jeeps
Source: BBS; Ministry of Industries;Planning Commission; and Public Sector Corporations.
N)



BANGLADESH
Private Sector Investment
FY77 - FY80
(Tk Million)
Industrial Investment 1/                              Industrial Investment 2/
Schedule (FY77 and FY78)                              Schedule (FY79 and FY8Z)
Si.                  Sector                         Target                      Actual                      Target                     Actual 3/
No.                                            Amount    |     %          Amount T        %          Amount   |       %         Amount   | 
1.   Engineering                               545.3        28.5          346.5        11.9         1012.5        21.6         1134.2        19.4
2.   Food and Allied Products                  355.4        18.6          735.9        25.3         1062.2        22.7         1532.8        26.2
3.   Specialized Textiles
(including handloom weaving)              185.0         9.7          806.8        27.8          741.7        15.9          841.6        14.4
4.   Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals             185.3         9.7          252.2         8.7          347.0          7.4         500.2          8.5
5.   Acquisition of Ships and Coasters         180.0         9.4          181.3         6.3          490.0        10.5          631.9         10.8
6.   Leather and Rubber Products               113.1         5.9          186.1         6.4          215.3         4.6          272.0          4.6
7.   Service Enterprises                        97.4         5.1          172.6         5.9          287.5         6.1          591.6        10.1
8.   Glass Products and Ceramics                61.9         3.3            8.9         0.3          254.0         5.4            53.8         0.9
9.   Paper Board, Printing and Publishing    83.9            4.4          170.0         5.8           66.3         1.4          222.3          3.8
10.   Forest Products                            12.7         0.7            8.3         0.3           45.7         1.0            15.4         0.3
11.   Industries not classified elsewhere        90.0         4.7           36.8         1.3          157.8         3.4           58.2          1.0
TOTAL:                                  11910.0       100.0         2905.4       100.0         4680.0       100.0         5854.0       100.1
Sources:  1/  Industrial Investment  Schedules (FY77 - FY78 and FY79 - FY80).
2/ Review of Implementation of Industrial Investment Schedules (FY77/FY78 and FY79/FY80).
3/ Actual up to April 1980.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Board of Directors
As of September 9, 1980
Date of
Name                           Title                     Appointment
Mr. A. H. M. Kamaluddin        Chairman and                           17.1.75
Managing Director
1/
Mr. M. A. Malik                Joint Secretary,                       15.7.75
Ministry of Posts,
Telegraphs & Telephones,
Government of Bangladesh
Mr. A. K. M. Ziauddin          Industrialist                          31.5.77
Mr. Lutfar Rahman              Businessman                            31.5.77
Mr. Aminul Islam Khan          Managing Director,                     2.6.77
Investment Corporation
of Bangladesh
Mr. Rashid-ul Hasan            Director-General                       3.12.77
Department of Industries,
Ministry of Industries,
Government of Bangladesh
Mr. Md. Nurul Islam Khan       Joint Secretary,                       20.12.78
Ministry of Industries,
Government of Bangladesh
Mr. Azizur Rahman              Division Chief and Additional          20.12.78
Secretary In-Charge of
Industries Division,
Ministry of Planning,
Government of Bangladesh
Mr. Ejabuddin Ahmed            Industrialist                          20.12.78
Mr. Mohammad Hossain           Joint Secretary,                       9.9.80
Banking & Investment Division,
Ministry of Finance,
Government of Bangladesh
1/ Retired as from September 9, 1980



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Staff Levels
FY76 - FY80 a/
Forecast
FY76     FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80        FY80
Professionals:
Bankers              139       156       156       210      216         180
Economists             7        20        18        38       35          40
Engineers             26        37        37        40       64          72
MBAs/Financial
Analysts            24        20        34       39        54          51
Statisticians          3         7        14        14       14          18
Management
Accountants          1         2         1         1        2           3
Total              200       242       260      342       385         364
Non-Professionals   404        392       440       431      471         471
GRAND TOTAL          604       634       700       773      856         835
a/ As of June 30.



BSB - ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
(AS OF JUNE 30, 1980)
Autods &Board of Directors                                          b
Medthod                       Chairman andReaon
Managing Director
General ManaRer                                                   General Manager
Establlshment  |Personnel &   Legal   Disinvt.   Branches           Technical    Project    Economic       Loan &      Board
Training     Dep t.    ept.      Co-or            |Appraisal   Promotion   Appraisal   Equity tI   Dept.
Loan        Loan         Inspect.    General        I           Central       Foreign      Loan &     Research &
Administr.   Accounting   & Evaluat.   Banking                    Accounting   Resources Equity      Statistics
IChittagong-
jComilla
Sylhet 
iRangpur   I
Barisal
IKhulna
Bogra
IRajshahi  I
lThenidah  I
Mymensingh
I          I
Proposed
Noakhali
|Pabna     I
2 inajpur I



BSB - PROPOSED ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
FY81
AUDTT AND~~~BAR  OF DIRECTORS                                                                 |     BOARD
MEDTHANDS                                            CHAIRMAN AND                -                              AR7G Nhed
(Khasroo)                                          MANAGING DIRECTOR                                           G.  me
17-9                                                (Kamaluddin)                                               7-2 
|GENERAL MANAGER                                           GENERAL MANAGER                                       GENERAL MANAGER 
(Chiasuddin Ahmed)                                          (M.A. Karim)
| LOAN & EQUI'lY I    |                                  _ LOAN ADMINISTRATION                                               ACCOUNTING
(Rizvi)                                                      (Nurul Haque)                                       r        (Kabir)
3:6 -2~6                                                        67-40             J61-33
LOAN & EQUITY II                                          INSPECTION & EVALUATIONf                                  LOAN ACCOUNTING
(Hamid)                                                       (M.A. Ra*&'f                                         (Bidu Nath)
26-18 9_ _1__1    28-14                                                                                                        
TECHNICAL APPRAISAL                                       LEGAL DEPARTNENT                                          GENERAL BANKING
(Nooruddin Ahmed)                                              (Zaman)                                                 (Khasru)
33-26          1                                     ______________________1_
[ ECONOMIC APPRAISAL l                                    BRANCHES COORDINATION                                 FOREIGN RESOURCES
_   (A.N. Khan)                                   _ _    (M.N.Huda)                                      _      (Nabidul Alam)
33-23                                                      12-7                                         _         9-3
PROJECT PROMOTION  |                                     _  BRANCHES  236-74                                    ESTABLISHMENT DEPT.
_  (Naziruddin)  l                                         Chittagong                                           (N.Ahmed -Acting)
10-5 _                                                IKhulna                                                    101-15
IComilla       
| RESEARCH & STATISTIq                                       IBogra                 I
q  (Idanur Rahman)a\ ISylhet                                                    I                            PERSONNEL & TPAINING
i Rangpur             I                               (S.A. Hosso'*n)
Rghenidah                                                   46-20
1Barisal              j                            PUBLIC RELATIONS
Mymensingh                                        P        RELATION
I   _Noakhali                                        (Ahmed Jamal)
I   -Pabna ~pro-]                                    (Ame4aml
-Dinajpur [POse
Note: (Parenthesis): indicates head of Department
Numbers below are: Total strength - professional officers
856     -385



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Operating Strategy Statement
FY81 - FY83
I. GENERAL
Purpose of the Statement
1.01      The purpose of the strategy statement in terms of BSB's operations
is to establish:
(i) short and medium term performance objectives and strategies
for each main function within BSB;
(ii)  a working plan for main functional groups such as project
promotion, appraisal, resource mobilisation and allocation,
portfolio diversification, portfolio management and finan-
cial structuring; and
(iii) on an annual basis reference data for decision making, per-
formance management, operational reviews and early warning
of operational imbalances.
Objectives
1.02      BSB's principal objectives for FY81-FY83 are to:
(i) improve the institutional structure;
(ii)  improve the oPerating effectiveness of professional staff;
(iii) improve the efficiency of operating procedures and the
the standard of operating performance;
(iv)  diversify the portfolio through a reduction in the subsectoral
concentration of advances;
(v) improve the level of collections of amounts due, reducing the
level of the portfolio affected by arrears; and
(vi)  improve the financial stability of BSB.



- 49 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
II. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Objectives
2.01      Principal objectives for FY81-FY83 are to:
(i)  identify and recruit experienced staff to replace officers
due to retire over the next three years;
(ii)  improve the delegation of decision-making, where eppropriate;
(iii)  group related operating functions under common heads cf
control;
(iv)  recruit and train sufficient professionals to process pla'nned
levels of lending operations;
(v)   reduce the level of staff turnover, through provision of
better promotion/henefit prospects; and
(vi) develop and implement a comprehensive training program for
new and existing staff.
Major Goals and Targets
2.02      During FY81-FY83, it is proposed to:
(i) contain staff turnover to 10% p.a.;
(ii)  improve the ratio of professional staff to support staff;
(iii) recruit one additional General Manager; and
(iv)  regroup operating functions.
2.03      From FY80 to FY83, the number of BSB employees is projected to
increase from 856 (FY80) to about 1,000 (FY83).  All new recruits would attend
a basic orientation course while all professional recruits would receive spe-
cialised training. On the basis of past experience, about 105 professionals
(i.e. 35 a year) will participate in training programs offered by international
agencies. Additionally, 225 officers would receive in-house training as
follows:



- 50 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
FY81      FY82       FY83
Details                                 Number
Research Officers/Economists         10         10         10
Engineers                             10        10         10
Financial Analysts                    10        10         10
Mid-senior level Officers             15        15         15
Junior Officers                      15         15         15
Supervisors                           -         15         15
60        75         90
Strategies
2.04      To achieve the objectives and targets noted above, BSB proposes to:
(i) initiate personnel development and other programs to improve
staff morale;
(ii) group operations, including:
- project promotion, appraisal (financial, technical and
economic), and research and statistics;
- end use, including project supervision, project administra-
tion, legal department, problem projects and disinvested
companies;
- finance, including general banking, loan accounting, central
accounting and external assistance; and
- administration,including establishment, personnel, training
and secretarial;
(iii) introduce by July 1, 1981 systematic job rotation for profes-
sional staff in three stages: rotation within departments,
inter-departmental rotation and inter-office rotation; and
(iv) continue the training program consisting of the following modules:
orientation, project identification and development, project
appraisal, end-use operations, financial analysis, production
control and economics for non-economists.
III. PROJECT PROMOTION
Objectives
3.01      The principal objectives of BSB's project promotion efforts are to
support the rapid growth of the industrial sector through:



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
(i) identification of projects in export-oriented subsectors;
(ii)  identification of projects in new industrial subsectors with
investment potential;
(iii) identification of investment possibilities in the less-
developed and rural areas of the country;
(iv)  the development of indigenous technology to facilitate the
utilisation of local labour and material resources;
(v) coordination with project identification and promotion activ-
ities of the Planning Commission and other agencies.
Major Goals and Targets
3.02      The major thrust of BSB's project promotion activities during FY81-
FY83 will be directed to:
(i)  preparation of project profiles for use by sponsors wishing
to become involved in industrial investment; and
(ii)  identifying investment opportunities in areas  other than
Dacca and Chittagong, where infrastructural facilities exist.
3.03      BSB will aim to prepare at least 30 detailed project profiles a year
to supplement those under preparation by the Ministry of Industries. BSB would
also attempt to increase its percentage lending to projects in the less-developed
areas as follows:
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Dacca                 60       59      53       47       42
Chittagong            24       16      18       20       22
Khulna                 2       15       17      19       21
Rajshahi              14       10      12       14       15
1130    100      100     100      100
Strategies
3.04      To achieve the above objectives, BSB will:
(i)  ensure that project promotion will draw on the economic and
sector analysis performed by the Economics Department and its
Industrial Economic Advisor;
(ii)  on the basis of subsectoral reviews and identified industry
potential, prepare project profiles for the industries con-
cerned. In this regard BSB would aim to prepare at least
30 project profiles each year;



- 52 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
(iii) increase the professional staff level in the project promo-
tion section from 4 to 8 by June 30, 1981 and from 8 to 12
by June 30, 1982;
(iv) actively seek out entrepreneurs considered eligible for set-
ting up industries in collaboration with the Government-owned
Sector Corporations; and
(v) assist prospective borrowers in identifying appropriate
industrial project possibilities and furnish relevant inform-
ation concerning:
- plant and machinery, product processes, raw material
requirements;
- sources of financing;
- facilities related to infrastructure.
IV. PROJECT APPRAISAL
Objectives
4.01      Within the area of project appraisals, the principal objectives are
to:
(i) reduce the time taken in project preparation and project
appraisal;
(ii) improve market assessments with particular emphasis on pro-
duct marketing and demand;
(iii) improve the realism of construction and operating cost esti-
mate through the application of sensitivity analysis to measure
the impact of inflation and delayed implementation;
(iv) improve the economic analysis of project proposals by focusing on:
- employment creation;
- net foreign exchange earnings/savings;
- domestic resource costs;
- internal economic rate of return.
Economic Priorities
4.02      In determining the priority of applications for appraisal operations,
BSB will be guided primarily by its analysis of investment potential in indus-
trial subsectors of comparative advantage to Bangladesh. Consistent with
these analysis and GOB objectives, the following priorities would be followed:



-- 53 -
MNNEX 8
Page 6
(i)  labour intensive export. oriented industries, located in
areas other than Dacca/Chittagong, based primarily on local
materials;
(ii)  labour intensive industries located in areas other than Dacca/
Chittagong, utilising local raw materials which contribute
intermediate goods for use in export oriented industries;
(iii)  labour intensive, import substitution industries based on
local raw materials, located in less developed areas;
(iv)  labour intensive export oriented industries based wholly
or partly on imported raw materials;
(v)  balancing, modernising and rehabilitation projects in
(i)-(iv) above; and
(vi)  other projects which are economically and financially viable.
industry Eligibility
4.03      Project applications will be considered on the basis of their finan-
cial and economic merit. However, BSB will not normally finance a project
application where the project is in a sector where there is a significant under-
utilization of capacity caused by the non-availability of local or imported
materials or by lack of market demand. Additionally, new loans will not be
sanctioned for projects in default or for any group which has urLder its control
any unit(s) in default until such time as satisfactory arrangements have been
reached with BSB for:
(i)  a study of the defaulting project to identify problems; and
issues affecting the units' operations, and
(ii)  preparation and implementation of a rehabilitation program,
including rescheduling, to resolve the project's operational
difficulties.
Major Goals and Targets
4.04      Major goals for FY81-FY83 are to:
(i)  increase the number of experienced appraisal staff by at
least 20% p.a., with particular emphasis on engineers,
economists and financial analysts;
(ii)  improve the data base system through closer collaboration
with Government Ministries, Sector Corporations, etc. and
through subscriptions to trade and professional magazines;
(iii) reduce the period for project appraisal to an average of
not more than six months;



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7
(iv) improve the sectoral coverage and economic analysis of
appraisals; and
(v) diversify the spread of loan approvals by sectors.
Strategies
4.05      To process the planned level of appraisals in FY81-FY83 and to attain
the goals for improving appraisals and diversifying the portfolio BSB will:
(i) recruit such number of Engineers, Economists and Financial
Analysts each year as may be necessary to cope with the actual
and project workload;
(ii)  employ an Advisor on industrial economics for a period of
two years to.
(a) upgrade the quality of economic and sectoral analyses
performed by the Economics Department; and
(b) develop detailed guidelines for industrial subsector
analysis to identify areas with investment potential
in the private sector;
(iii) establish teams to work with the Advisor to carr out subsec-
toral analyses; and
(iv)  given the availability of other economic and financially-
viable projects, BSB will ordinarily limit its involvement
in any four subsectors to not more than 50% of its total
investments and commitments, with not more than 15% of
investments and commitments being for any one subsector.
4.06      With regard to 4.05 (iv), BSB will give preference to project appli-
cations in such subsectors as: inland water transport (particularly barges for
fertiliser transport); machinery and spare parts; engineering enterprises; and
non traditional manufactured exports, etc.; which meet the economic priorities
noted in paragraph 4.02.
V. END-USE SUPERVISION
Objectives
5.01      For FY81-FY83 the objectives of the end-use function are to (i) mini-
mize the overall level of portfolio arrears and infection; and (ii) establish
and implement rehabilitation programs for problem projects.



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
Page 8
Major Goals and Targets
5.02      The major targets for FY81-FY83 are to
(i)  achieve an overall collection rate of at least 55% by FY83;
(ii)  achieve a cash collection rate of at least 50% by FY83;
(iii) contain rescheduling on private sector loans to not more
than 10% of amounts falling due;
(iv)  achieve an 80% cash collection rate of amounts falling due
from public sector projects;
(v)  increase cash collections from private sector projects
from 16.0% in FY80 to 24% in FY81, to 37% in FY82 and 46%
in FY83;
(vi)  reduce the leve of private sector arrears from 23% in FY80
to 15% by FY83; and
(vii) reduce the percentage of the private sector portfolio
affected by arrears from 63% in FY80 to 30% by FY83.
5.03      Annexes 23 and 24 set out detailed sectoral collection targets for
FY81 for the private sector portfolio and overall public/private sector
collection targets for FY81-FY83. The targets have been established on the
assumption that BSB will receive vigorous support from GOB in implementation
of (i) prior clearance of import license applications; (ii) enforcement of
Article 34 of the BSB Order;(iii) interbank coordination to monitor and
control credit facilities available to defaulting debtors; and (iv) BSB's
revises penalty interest rates.
Strategies
5.04      To attain the collection targets, BSB proposes the following actions:
Problem Projects
For each project designated a problem project; the Problem
Project Cell will:
(i)  draw on BSB's analysis of industrial sectors in whiclh signi-
ficant arrears have accumulated;
(ii)  where considered necessary by the Board, carry out, or engage
consultants to carry out a detailed analysis of the project's
operation to identify the factors causing default;
(iii) prepare a detailed rehabilitation plan covering marketing
actions, production control and planning, financial perform-
ance and operating projections; and



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
Page 9
(iv)  discuss and agree the rehabilitation programs including
reduction of arrears with the project sponsor and thereafter
i-pect each project at least twice a year.
Other Projects
For projects not defined as problem projects
(i)  intensify site visits to ensure at least two visit per year;
(ii)  expand site reports to cover progress against plans for con-
struction, revised cost estimates, marketing, production
control, inventory levels, financial operations,together with
an agreed action program to rectify any operating difficulties.
Actions would include the progressing of, import licenses for
raw materials, assessment of import duties, construction mate-
rials, and permission/no objection certificates from ministerial
and semi-governmental authorities;
(iii) recruit additional end-use staff, particularly engineers and
financial analysts to achieve desired site visit improvement;
and
(iv) appoint BSB officers to the Boards of majqr defaulting companies
and selectively to the Boards of other companies.
Other Actions
On a case-by-case basis:
(i)  give a relief of penal interest of 50% of penal interest on
arrears repaid within one year;
(ii)  initiate action underArticle 34 of the BSB Order against all
defaulting projects which have been operating profitably for
at least two years; and
(iii) rephase/reschedule arrears on the basis of an initial repayment
equal to at least 20% of the amounts falling due and suitable
arrangement to liquidate the balance due according to the cash
generation potential of each applicant.
VI. GENERAL BANKING OPERATIONS
Objectives
6.01      The principal objective of BSB's general banking operations is to
supplement collectins through deposit mobilization to finance new industrial
sector operations. Emphasis in the mobilization of deposits will be on long-
term deposits.



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
Page 10
Major Goals and Targets
6.02      Given the projected increase on demand for taka currency financing
during FY81-FY83, BSB aims to:
(i) maximize term deposits by seeking deposits from state corpora-
tions, and by increasing mobilisation through the branch
network;
(ii)  achieve a  deposit growth rate of at least 15% per annum;
(iii)  negotiate, from time to time, the infusion of such local
currency as-may be necessary to maintain BSB's liquidity at
levels agreed by GOB.
(iv)  match the maturities of deposits and onlendings; and
(v)  limit its short-term lending operations to not more than 25%
of its total portfolio.
Strategies
6.03      To achieve the targets for resource mobilisation for FY81-FY83, BSB
proposes to
(i)  establish deposit mobilisation targets for each branch;
(ii)  establish targets by type of deposit;
(iii) negotiate the deposit of corporate funds by sector corpora-
tions; and
(iv)  implement, by July 1, 1981, a system for effectively matching
and managing the maturity mix and.utilisation of mobilised
deposits.



- 58 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
OPERATING POLICIES
FY81-FY83
I. GENERAL
Objectives of BSB
1.01      Under the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) Order, 1972 (President's
Order No. 129 of 1972), gazetted on October 31, 1972, the main objective
of BSB is stated to be inter alia to aid industrial development by providing
credit facilities and equity-support to industrial concerns in Bangladesh.
To achieve this objective BSB:
(i) mobilises resources within and outside the country for
investment in industry;
(ii) stimulates industrial development by identifying, selecting,
promoting and financing industrial projects;
(iii) advises entrepreneurs on the establishment of new projects
and on the balancing, modernisation, replacement and expan-
sion of existing projects, and
(iv) assists entrepreneurs/organisations on the implementation
of new projects through the provision of technical guidance
via project supervision, and monitoring the progress of pro-
jects during implementation, and initial operation.
Autonomy
1.02      In order to achieve BSB's overall objectives, the Charter of BSB
allows the Board of Directors (who are appointed by the Government) to organize
operate, manage and conduct its affairs on the basis of commercial considera-
tions within the Government's broad industrial sector policy-framework. The
Board also has authority per the Charter, to extend or withhold financial
assistance to any project as defined by the Government's industrial investment
policy, Five-Year/Annual Development Plans and Industrial Investment Schedules
(IIS).
II. OPERATING POLICIES
Eligible Industries
2.01      Public and private sector projects are eligible for BSB's financing
assistance. In the private sector, assistance will be extended to those indus-
tries indicated in the IIS published by the Government from time to time, and



-- 59 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
to industries not specified in the IIS if their financial and economic merit
can be established. However, the following sub-sectors will normally be given
low priority for financing
(i) hotels, motels and standard restaurants;
(ii)  hospitals and clinics;
(iii) cinema houses and film studios, including film processing
laboratories; and
(iv)  dry cleaning and laundering.
2.02      In the public sector assistance will normally be extended only to
those projects which have been approved by the Government and included in it's
Annual Development Program (ADP) and which meet BSB's economic and financial
eligibility criteria.
2.03      Funds allocated by the Government for public sector projects can be
administered hy BSB on payment by such projects of a commission at an agreed
rate.
2.04      New loans will not normally be sanctioned for projects in default
until such time as satisfactory arrangements have been reached with BSB to
repay or reschedule the amount in default.
Project Promotion
2.05      BSB will provide all reasonable assistance to prospective borrowers
in identifying industrial project possibilities of financial and. economic
merit and will furnish relevant information about:
(i) plant and machinery, product and process, raw materials;
(ii)  possible sources of financing;
(iii) other facilities related to infrastructure; and
(iv)  will provide project briefs for entrepreneurs who are new
to industrial investment and unable to seek professional
advice from other sources.
To promote industrial development in the less-developed areas of the country,
project promotion teams of BSB will undertake periodic tours of the country-
side to seek out prospective investors and to identify potential. industrial
projects in these areas.  BSB will also assist local entrepreneurs in setting
up viable projects in collaboration with foreign investors.



- 60 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
Investment Priorities
2.06      In the private sector, BSB's lending operations willbe confined pri-
marily to the industrial sectors included in the IIS under GOB's Second Five
Year Development Plan. However, BSB will consider loan applications under
industrial sectors falling outside the IIS, if it is reasonably convinced that
investment in the proposed industry is economically and financially viable
and is socially desirable. The eligibility of such industrial enterprises
for BSB financing will require prior clearance by the Government (Investment
Board).
2.07      In order to achieve optimal economic utilisation of its resources,
consistent with the need to maintain a balanced mix of sectoral/industry invest-
ment, BSB will adopt suitable criteria for identifying and determining prior-
ity investment sectors and subsectors. These will be reviewed at least
annually in the light of GOB's industrial policy announcements or emergence
of new investment opportunities in industry.
2.08      Project appraisals will include the following criteria:
(i) export production potential;
(ii)  potential for efficient import substitution;
(iii) use of indigenous raw and packing materials;
(iv)  labor intensity;
(v) regional location;
(vi)  productivity improvement through BMR of existing operation;
(vii) contribution to production of intermediate goods and/or
creating linkage effects to other sectors of the economy; and
(viii) introduction of new technology, revival or modernization of
traditional skills, etc.
2.09      While processing loan applications under any sector, major emphasis
will be laid upon its economic impact and on the utilization of existing
installed capacities. If existing installed capacities in the country are
found to be underutilized, creation of additional capacity will be discour-
aged unless the reasons for underutilization are fully identified and BSB is
fully satisfied that underutilization of existing capacity is due to temporary
difficulties or regional imbalances which would be overcome in the near future
and that sufficient demand for the proposed products exist.
2.10      Selection of investment proposals will be made through the mechanism
of constant and continuous screening of loan applications following the above
criteria, which will be carried out by the project receiving section of the
appraisal department of BSB.



- 61 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
III. TYPE OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Term Loans
3.01      Term loans in foreign currency and/or local currency will be given
for setting up new industrial prejects and/or for balancing, modernization
replacement and expansion of existing industrial enterprises.
Working Capital Loans
3.02      BSB may provide short-term loans on a limited scale to meet the
working capital needs of industries which have received long-ter.m loans,
guarantees, equity-support and/or bridge finance. BSB will also extend tempo-
rary loan facilities to clients who maintain fixed deposit accounts with it.
However, the total amount of working capital loans given by BSB will not
normally exceed 25% of its total lending operations.
Equity-Support
3.03      Equity support may, if necessary, be extended to limited liability
companies only for financing industrial projects by way of (i) outright pur-
chase of shares; and (ii) underwriting the issue of shares either directly or
through consortium of banks and financial institutions.
Bridge-Financing
3.04      Short-term advances against shares underwritten may be made to enable
(i) a company to go into commercial production before floating the shares for
public subscription or (ii) release of fund against ADP (Annual Development
Plan) allocations by the Government in respect of public sector projects.
Guarantees for Credits/Loans
3.05      BSB may provide guarantees for credits/loans raised by industrial
projects from other sources.
Lending Rates
3.06      Lending rates on foreign currency and local currency loans will be
determined in line with other lending rates in the country so as to allow BSB
an interest spread to cover its operating expenses and creation of adequate
reserves. BSB charges interest on local currency loans at 3.5% above the Bank
rate (i.e. 8.0% per annum as on February 1, 1980) subject to a minimum of 14.0%
per annum or at such rates as may be determined from time to time. For for-
eign currency loans, interest will be charged on the basis of the relending
terms of the foreign credit lines under which the projects are financed. With
regard to local currency lending,, BSB will review its interest rate structure
annually to determine its net rate of return on loans and advances and would
present proposals to GOB for appropriate adjustment in the rate structure.



- 62 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5
3.07      BSB will charge a variable penal interest rate on projects in arrears
at such rates as may be determined from time to time. At present BSB's penal
interest rate is 4.0% p.a. with a remission of 50% of the penal interest if
arrears are repaid within one year.
General Terms and Conditions
3.08      BSB's standard terms and conditions for extending financial assis-
tance are applicable to all borrowers. However, the terms and conditions of
BSB's financial assistance will vary from case to case depending upon the
nature of assistance and the status of the borrowers. Special conditions,
including concessional terms for certain types of projects to be established
in the less developed areas of the country, may be stipulated as and when the
circumstances so warrant.
Security for Loans
3.09      BSB will obtain adequate security coverage to protect its exposure
in any loan. Loans will usually be secured by mortgage, hypothecation of
existing assets of the project and/or the assets to be created with BSB's
financial assistance.
Repayment
3.10      Repayment of loans and guarantees should be made in accordance with
repayment schedules drawn up on the basis of the repayment capacity of the
project or in accordance with the amortization schedule of the foreign credit
line under which the subloan is accommodated up to a maximum period of twenty
years. However the Board may, on a case by case basis, extend the period of
repayment beyond this limit.
3.11      The grace period for a project will depend on the merit of each case
and will be fixed by BSB keeping in view the proposed construction time-table
and projected cash generation.
Rescheduling
3.12      Where a study of a defaulting unit's operations has been carried out
and a detailed rehabilitation program prepared and agreed with the sponsor,
BSB may allow a rescheduling of the amount in arrears and principal not yet
due. Such rescheduling will normally include a cash payment of at least 20%
of the amount in arrears, with repayment of the balance due amortised in
relation to the revised cash flow of the project.
IV. INVESTMENT EXPOSURE
Regional Limits
4.01      BSB will adopt regional lending policies to direct distribution of
available resources in accordance with Government policies to promote regional
dispersal of industries.



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6
Sectoral Limits
4.02      No upper limits are fixed for the amount of lending to any particular
industrial subsector, but BSB will seek to diversify its por; olio among
all industrial subsectors. However, BSB's total investment in any four
subsectors together should not ordinarily account for more than 50.0% of BSB's
portfolio with no one sector accounting for more than 15.0% of total disburse-
ments and commitments.
Project Limits
4.03      BSB's commitments by way of loans, underwriting of public issue of
shares and equity-support to any industrial project will, in accordance with
GOB policy, not ordinarily exceed. 70.0% of the total capital outlay of the
project if it is located in a Government snecified developed area and 80.0% of
the total capital outlay of the project if it is located in a Government
specified less-developed area
4.04      BSB's commitments by waly of loans and  equity support to any indus-
trial project will not normally exceed 15.0% of BSB's own net worth (i.e.
equity plus reserves and unappropriated profits). This limit may be exceeded
at the discretion of the Board where the project is exceptionalLy attractive
on economic and financial grounds but lacks other sources of funds. However,
in such cases special measures must be taken to protect BSB from the risks
involved.
4.05      BSB's overall equity investment shares and underwriting in any indus-
trial company would not exceed 49.0% of the company's paid-up capital. When-
ever possible and appropriate, BSB will seek to sell its equity holdings.
4.06      At any particular point of time BSB's aggregate investments by way
of equity-support to industrial companies will not exceed 20.0% of BSB's own
networth.
V. PROCEDURES
Project Appraisal
5.01      BSB will finance only those projects which it has determined through
its own appraisals to be technically sound, financially viable and economically
justified provided also that the managerial ability and credit worthiness of
the sponsors of such prJjects are satisfactory.  However, inter alia an
objective of the proje_t appraisal process would be to identify projects which
maximise the economic return on BSB's resources.
Follow-up Activities
5.02      In order to protect its investment and to provide assistance to its
clients, BSB will maintain close liaison with project-managers through periodic



- 64 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7
inspection of projects under implementation and in operation. Inspections
should focus upon:
(i) detecting the problems encountered by clients and suggest-
ing remedial measures thereof;
(ii)  obtaining relevant financial and other performance reports;
and
(iii) recommending to the Government sanction/enhancement of import
quotas of raw materials, spare parts, etc. which are necessary
to achieve the scheduled capacity utilisation or the project.
Procurement
5.03      For foreign currency loans of:
(i) up to US$ 150,000, the project sponsor will be required to
submit at least three quotations;
(ii)  between US$150,000 and US$500,000, the project sponsor or
BSB will obtain quotations from known manufacturers (in more
than one country) through international shopping; and
(iii) over US$500,000, BSB will invite international competitive
bidding through advertising the tender specifications in local
newspapers.
Disbursement
5.04      For all expenditure, documentation as per terms and conditions of
the sanction letters must be completed by the sub-borrowers before being eli-
gible for any disbursement under the loans sanctioned by BSB.
VI. FINANCIAL POLICIES
Debt/Equity Ratio
6.01      BSB will seek, at all times, to maintain a debt/equity ratio of at
least 5:1. The term "debt" refers to (i)actual debt incurred, assumed or
guaranteed by BSB which matures more than one year after the date on which it
was incurred; (ii) deposits not subject to withdrawal within one year after
receipt and (iii) such amount of any other loan which is reflected in the
liabilities of BSB. The term equity means BSB's unimpaired paid-up capital,
capital reserves and unappropriated profits.



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
Page 8
Debt Servicing Ratio
6.02      -3B will take such appropriate actions as are necessary to maintain
its debt servicing capability (including the servicing of inherited liabilities)
at a level of at least 1.2:1.
Provisions for Losses on Portfolio
6.03      BSB will make adequate provisions from operating profits to cover
itself against possible losses on principal and interest due but not paid.
The accumulated provision would be equal to at least 10.0% of the total equity
and loan portfolio
Liquidity Reserves
6.04      To meet any demand withdrawals from customers' savings,.BSB will
maintain statutory reserves as determined from time to time by the Bangladesh
Bank. BSB will also maintain an information system for effectively matching
and managing the maturity mix of its domestic deposits and their utilization.
Exchange Risks
6.05      BSB will not normally accept the exchange risk on foreign currency
borrowings.  Exchange risks will be borne either by the Goverrnent and/or by
the project, as may be agreed between GOB and the donors at the time of nego-
tiation of each credit agreement.
Dividends
6.06      In terms of Clause 31(2) of BSB's Order, 1972, BSB will pay to the
Government the entire surplus arnount of its net annual profit after making
necessary reserves, provisions for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation of
assets and such other matters as are usually provided for by bankers or are
considered in the interest of BSB.
Collections
6.07      BSB will take all appropriate actions to collect all amounts of
principal and interest due in accordance with the amortisation schedules of
loans and advances.  The term  "collection" refers to the cash receipt of prin-
cipal and interestand the cash payment received as part of a program to
reschedule a loan or advance.
VII. PERSONNEL AND TRAINING
Recruitment
7.01      BSB will seek to maintain its professional/technical staff level
at the number approved by the Board. Emphasis will be placed upon graduate



- 66 -
ANNEX 9
Page 9
recruitment for all professional/technical positions. To attract and retain
adequate numbers of qualified staff, BSB will maintain good working conditions
and provide such other incentives to its employees as are consistent with Gov-
ernment policies.
Training
7.02      To provide for staff promotion and maintenance of quality performance
in appraisal, end use etc. BSB will provide detailed training courses to
new recruits and specialised courses for operating staff. The content and
frequency of courses will be reviewed and revised if necessary annually by the
Board.
Co-operation with other Institutions
7.03      BSB will maintain a close relationship with national and international
institutions engaged in development activities and will consider participation
in consortium arrangements with them provided such projects mect its investment
criteria. BSB will also collaborate with other institutions in the areas of
economic research, technical assistance and project appraisal.



- 67 -
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK                            ANNEX 10
COMPARATIVE INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
AS AT OCTOBER 16, 1980
Percent Per Annum           FY81
Bank Rate                                                  8.0                  10.5
Lending Rates: Commercial Banks
Loan and advances except for those
indicated below                                      11.0-12.0           14.0-15.0
Loan and advances against jute goods
and tea                                              10.5                  12.0
Lending Rates: Development Banks
BSB
Domestic currency loans                              11.5                  14.0
For foreign currency loans under
IDA Credit                                         12.0                 14.0
IDBI Credits                                        9.0                  9.0
Indian Textile Machinery Credit                    10.5                 10.5
KfW Loan                                           12.0                 12.0
Penal interest on overdue amount                      2.0                   4.0
BSRS
Domestic currency loans                              11.5                  14.0
For foreign currency loans under
IDBI credits                                        9.0                  9.0
ADB credit                                         12.5                 12.5
Penal interest on overdue amount                      2.0                   2.0
Saving and Fixed (Term) Deposit Rates
Commercial Banks
Savings accounts                                      4.5-7.0              8.5
Accounts of 3 months and over but
less than 1 year                                    7.0-7.5            12.0-13.0
Accounts of 1 year and over but
less than 3 years                                   8.25-9.25          14.0-14.5
Accounts of 3 years and over                         10.25                15.0
BSB and BKB
Savings accounts                                      4.5-7.0              8.5
Accounts of 3 months and over but
less than 1 year                                    8.0-8.5            12.0-13.0
Accounts of 1 year and over but
less than 3 years                                   9.25-10.25         14.0-14.5
Accounts of 3 years and over                         11.25                15.0



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
RESOURCE POSITION AS OF JUNE 30, 1980
Foreign Currency (US$ Million)               FY76              FY77             FY78              FY79             FY80              Forecast FY80
1st ADB                  12.60               5.39              0.43                -               -                -                       -
1st IDA                  25.00              25.00             25.00            25.00             23.20            13.64                  13.64
IDBI                      2.61               2.58              2.18             1.38              0.93             0.77                   0.77
ITMC                      0.65               0.65              0.64             0.46              0.17              -                      -
UK/Bangladesh Grant       2.34               2.34              2.34              2.34             1.23             0.08                   0.08
Ist KfW                   1.70               1.70              1.70             0.71              0.29             0.25                   0.25
OECF                      0.71                 -               0.71             0.71              0.71             0.71                   0.71
Saudi Grant              11.64                 -                -                 -               7.00            11.64                   8.00
2nd ADB                  25.00                 -                -                 -              25.00            25.00                  25.00
Belgian Loan              2.82                 -                -                 -                -               2.82                   2.82
Swedish Grant             2.85                 -                -                 -                -               2.85                    2.85
2nd KfW                   5.67                 -                -                -                 -               5.67                   5.67
TOTAL:                   93.59              37.66             33.00            30.60             58.53            63.43                  59.79
Less Disbursement                            4.99              2.22             4.07             11.07             12.11                 20.94
Resources available for
disbursement                              32.67             30.78            26.53             47.46            51.32                  38.85
Less:  Committed but not
disbursed                                  1.82              7.42            11.02             15.06            17.66                  15.33                      o
Resources available for
commitment                                30.85             23.36            15.51             32.40            33.66                  23.52
Add: Cancellation/withdrawals                  -                -                 -               0.61              1.93                   1.00
Less:  Approvals not committed                2.31             4.72              6.12             9.29             39.69                  14.73
Foreign currency resources
available for approval                    28.54             18.64             9.39             24.72            ( 4.10)                 9.79
Local Currency (Tk Millions)
Cash on hand/in banks                        21.38            38.73            150.58           157.12            272.88                 188.32
Add  money at call                          269.07           373.20            370.20           271.50            142.50                 250.00
lo" un,r on deposit                    47.86             68.30           100.70            108.27           137.81                 170.94
  eemat*4"F w8^                        7.60             30.40            85.60            168.90           253.80                 205.00
Local Curreny Resources
available for disbursement               234.99            313.23           334.48            151.45            23.77                  62.38



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS: FY72-FY80
(Tk Millions)
FY72-FY75             FY76               FY77               FY78              FY79               FY80           FY72-FY80
AmouAmot    %     Amount             Amount       7O    Amount       /     Amount      7O    Amount       %      Amount      7.
APPROVALS (GROSS)
(a)  Foreign Currency Loans           258.1    70.9       47.1    72.5    136.5    66.8   268.4          67.4   238.1       46.9   721.6       66.1   1669.8    63.5
(b)  Local Currency Loans             103.4    28.4       17.9    27.5       67.6    33.1   129.9        32.6   263.3       52.0   370.5       33.9    952.6    36.2
(c)  Equity Investments                 2.3      0.7        -        -        0.2      0.1       -         -       5.6       1.1       -         -        8.1      0.3
(d)  Others                              -        _-                                              -        -                 -         -                   - _
TOTAL:                           363.8    100.0    65.0   100.0    204.4   100.0   398.3    100.0   507.5    100.0  1092.1    100.0   2630.5   100.0
Number of loans (Local and
foreign currency loans           181                 63                 92              159                225                297                1022
combined
COMMITMENTS
(a)  Foreign Currency Loans            73.9      59.8    12.8    62.7        66.6    66.7   177.6        67.5   203.7       54.7   228.1       46.8    757.7    56.0 -
(b)  Local Currency Loans              49.6      40.2      7.6    37.3       30.4    31.3    85.6        32.5   168.9       45.3   248.0       52.0    590.1    43.6  1
(c)  Equity Investments                  -          -       -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -       5.8       1.2       5.8      0.4
TOTAL:                           123.5    100.0    20.4   100.0         97.0   100.0   263.2    100.0   372.6    100.0   476.9    100.0   1353.6   100.0
DISBURSEMENTS
(a)  Foreign Currency Loans            48.4      62.2    75.3    85.8        29.4    65.9    45.7        39.5   155.2       55.2    91.0       25.9    445.0    46.4
(b)  Local Currency Loans              29.4      37.8    12.5    14.2        15.2    34.1    69.9        60.5   126.0       44.8   260.7       74.1    513.7    53.6
(c)  Equity Investments                  -          -       -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -
TOTAL:                            77.8    100.0    87.8   100.0         44.6   100.0   115.6    100.0   281.2    100.0   351.7    100.0    958.7   100.0
RESCHEDULINGS (ADJUSTMENTS) 1/
(a)  Principal
-  Overdue                                                                               38.8      49.5    17.7       43.2    15.7       19.6
-  Not due                                                                                 3.1       3.9     0.6        1.4    10.4       13.0
(b)  Interest                                                                                  36.5      46.6    22.7       55.4    54.1       67.4
TOTAL:                            53.1               37.7              562.5              78.4    100.0    41.0    100.0    80.2    100.0    852.9
I/  Total positions have been shown where break-up is not available.                                                                                                 Z



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
CLIENT DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN APPROVAL (NET): FY72 -FY80
(Tk Million)
FY72-FY75             FY76                 FY77                FY78                 FY79                FY80               FY72-FY80
Details               Amount       %       Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %       Amount       %
1.   Clients/Entrepreneur
New Clients/
Entrepreneur                110.9      80.8      45.5      82.9      159.8      87.5      260.2     82.6      429.8      89.2      893.5     87.2    1899.7       86.5
Existing Clients             26.4      19.2       9.4      17.1       22.9      12.5       54.8     17.4       52.2      10.8      131.4      12.8     297.1      13.5
TOTAL:                      137.3    100.0       54.9    100.0       182.7    100.0       315.0    100.0      482.0    100.0    1024.9    100.0    2196.8    100.0
2.   Sector
Public Sector                85.6      62.3        5.5     10.0       24.8      13.6         -         -        8.1       1.7         -         -      124.0       5.6
Private Sector               51.7      37.7      49.4      90.0      157.9      86.4     315.0    100.0       473.9      98.3    1024.9    100.0    2072.8        94.4
TOTAL:                      137.3    100.0       54.9    100.0       182.7    100.0       315.0    100.0      482.0    100.0    1024.9    100.0    2196.8    100.0  0
3.   Scale
Small Scale (ref. in
Tk 2.5 million)              12.3       9.0       15.2     27.7       12.9       7.1       24.0       7.6      39.7       8.2       36.6       3.6     140.7       6.4
Medium/Large (above
2.5 Million)                125.0      91.0      39.7      72.3      169.8      92.9      291.0     92.4      442.3      91.8      998.3      96.4    2056.1      93.6
TOTAL:                      137.3    100.0       54.9    100.0       182.7    100.0       315.0    100.0      482.0    100.0    1024.9    100.0    2196.8    100.0
_   _



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN APPROVALS (NET)
FY72 - FY80
(Tk Million)
FY72-FY75            FY76               FY77               FY78              FY79               FY80           FY72-FY80
SECTOR              Amount      %      Amount      %     Amount      %      Amount           Amount      %      Amount      %      Amount      %
1.   Food and Allied Products          14.0    10.2      12.4    22.6       13.2      7.2     84.8    27.0       60.5    12.6    288.8    28.2    473.7    21.6
2.   Jute and Allied Fibre
Products                       13.5      9.8        -        -      12.3      6.7      64.2    20.4       73.0    15.1    212.7    20.8    375.7    17.1
3.   Cotton, Woollen and
Synthetic Textiles             70.5    51.3       12.3    22.4      35.4    19.4       12.1      3.8      36.3      7.5     41.1      4.0    207.7       9.6
4.   Paper, Paper Products
and Printing                   11.3      8.2       3.5      6.4     41.7    22.8       43.2    13.7       39.3     8.2    107.1    10.4    246.1    11.2
5.   Tannery and its Products           0.7      0.5        -       -        5.4      3.0        -       -       21.7      4.5      67.8      6.6     95.6      4.4
6.   Non-Metallic Mineral
Products                        3.7      2.7        -        -         -       -        1.4      0.4        -       -       10.8      1.1      15.9      0.7
7.   Forest and Wood Products            -       -         -        -         -        -       0.2      0.1       0.4      0.1       1.1     0.1       1.7      0.1
8.   Rubber and Rubber Products          -        -         -       -         -        -         -       -        2.9      0.6       0.1       -        3.0     0.1
9.   Basic Metal Products                -        -         -       -         -        -         -        -       4.6      0.9        -        -        4.6     0.2
10.   Metal Products                     2.3      1.7      0.7      1.3       4.5      2.5       5.4     1.7      51.0    10.6       18.4      1.8     82.3      3.7
11.   Electrical Machinery and
Goods                           0.9      0.7       0.6      1.1       2.1     1.2       5.3      1.7      12.7      2.6     50.9      5.0      72.5      3.3_
12.   Machinery and Spare Parts           -        -        -        -        0.4      0.2       0.6     0.2       5.7      1.2       2.3      0.2      9.0      0.4'
13.   Transport Equipments               1.5      1.1      9.0    16.4       17.8      9.7      34.7    11.0    121.7    25.3        66.9      6.5    251.6    11.4
14.   Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals   5.3         3.9     11.7    21.3        8.3      4.5      32.8    10.4      12.0      2.5      92.5      9.0    162.6      7.4
15.   Petro-Chemicals                     -        -       0.8      1.4       0.6      0.3       0.1      -        1.1      0.2      11.2      1.1     13.8      0.6
16.   Service Industries                12.9      9.4      3.5      6.4      40.1    22.0       29.2     9.3      39.0      8.1      53.1      5.2    177.8      8.1
17.   Mining, Mineral Oil & Gas           -        -        -        -         -        -         -       -         -        -         -        -         -       -
18.   Miscellaneous                      0.7      0.5      0.4      0.7       0.9      0.5       1.0     0.3       0.1       -        0.1       -        3.2     0.1
19.   BSCIC Sponsored Projects            -        -         -       -         -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -         -
TOTAL:                          137.3   100.0       54.9   100.0    182.7   100.0    315.0   100.0    482.0   100.0   1024.9   100.0   2196.8   100.0
, _ _ , . _ i , __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN APPROVALS (NET): FY72 - FY80
(Tk Million)
FY72-FY75                 FY76                  FY77                   FY78                   FY79                   FY80               FY72-FY80
REGION          Amount        %       Amount        %        Amount        %        Amount        %        Amount        %       Amount        %        Amount        %
Dacca             85.4       62.2        31.6       57.6      105.1       57.5       212.4       67.4       290.3       60.3       601.7       58.7     1326.5       60.4
Chittagong        34.7       25.3        18.8       34.2        58.9      32.2        75.2       23.9       115.0       23.9       158.3       15.5      460.9       21.0
Rhulna            14.0       10.2         1.7        3.1       16.9        9.3        16.2        5.1         9.6        1.9       155.8       15.2      214.2        9.7
Rajshahi           3.2        2.3         2.8        5.1         1.8       1.0        11.2        3.6        67.1       13.9       109.1       10.6      195.2        8.9
TOTAL:           137.3      100.0        54.9      100.0       182.7     100.0       315.0      100.0       482.0      100.0      1024.9      100.0     2196.8      100.0
_     _            ,                               _                   _7_                               ___



7 73 -A5NNEX 16
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
5'
Partial Indicators of Sample Projects Approved
(FY76 - FY80)
Naturc     ~           l           roetCosItRR  IERR  epp 'Cn -ouser i.t.t                          Earned/Owed
    7        PFeancd Bs          G--erasd           -     ,
3.d .-d Al/cd Pi d' cts
Sc/rir  ledactries Limited i Prrrp,                                                    Boo          48         31          58.5                 46             2.9             ci)               4.4
1a ania Rice Oil lo LimcL   d                                                          ocw         42       N.A.          60.5                 52             3.0             _                  _
rgirg  l.ir:itrd, EholP New                                                                 ;1        31           57.8                140             3.3            3CC               3.6
A 0 lied lI/bre Pridaics
0li a ,ed  tI,e Yarn ai d Stint  ton-a-tart-g Compary Limited fPropiosed)              New          34         1}          bl.9                218             i.1             PC                4.6
M . i Jr/hero  Jolts llanofoceair8 tminted. Kaiitio                                BoN          18        24           40.6               21S             23.7            1030             1i.i
ot torn, Wart//em and Synthetic -jrtc/es
5.7.MB. Lieipod                                                                       oN-           47        25           47.2                105             7.5             33           Saud iS    )
SonL_c Silk  Mills Limited                                                             Nir          50         23          54.4                 38             S.4             _                 3.1
Luoky textile  Limited                                                                 Nee          28         1b          52.2                 38              .3             -.8
Mis cAlm  Mamoeh *.arnants Limited, Chittsagong                                        Nea         O5         SO           57.6                315             2.6            OiC               i.8
Paper, Paper Pr-doctn and Prijtini
3-inc/i  Onird ti//s Linilted                                                          tow          28 1N                  51.4                262             2.s             -                ,8.3
Iie:iiaro/ Packages Idndutry                                                           tMR         P.A.      N.A.          53.1                 16             2.9                       -
Pals lies6aic Pt/p and Poptr Mti/In Limited, Pota                                  Pew         28         30           58.9                ai             P.7                               0.S
rtnery and its Pr,dacta
7a-an Rah-ar.  imited                                                                  1,MR         47       N.A.          3C.3                 37             5.8            !00              77.7
Sh.e and Re / loternaxioena 1                                                          heo          26       N.A.          40.2                 9P             9.8            /1/                3.1
Mis Soznar Bong/a  Sacra                                                               tee          50        47           65.0                 57             1.5              5               3.5
Pon-2esa//c  Miteral PrdooL-ta
lpier   /a   Indaitry Limited S-ea                                                                 N.A. N.A.  N.A.         42.2                168             4.i             _                3.03
M/a Nahiae Glans lndastrn  Pnt. Limited, DSco-                                         Son          24       N.A.          50.c                17C             1.2-
Metal Products
Sa/ca  Inidostnina limitwd                                                             New          24         18.        55.3                 29             7.7             _ 
TaBma  Anaoo             p lndontry  Limited                          /i8l                          24       N.A.          31.2                 62             4.9                               2.-
Bengal .tgrloaleiira/  /mplerensn ond Stee/ Prodocca Industries Limited                loew         31       N.A.          33.6                 42             3.8
M!sIiricnta   Poondry cad Bopr-o. ingincerteg  Limited. lenone            llew         37       N.A.          55.5                 27             7.3              -                 _
Electrica/ Machi-ery and Loods
_retera p Indastry Limited L13M8                                                                   N.A.      N.A.          48.9                 26             3.t             23                1.5
Marsh'al   Battery l- mpany Limited                                                    Poe          50       N.A.          56.9                 42              .8
Mls Bus-aen Elecootrical Indastry Limited, Bogra                                       leo          73        30           61.5                 64 2.                          _                 3.C
Machinney aed Spare Parts
Bamp/adesh Monshp   and Company Limited                                                dMR          39        38           50.3                 31             4.7-
S/a Laton Spintex LimiPted, -acca                                                      le           78       A.A.          47.5                 54             S.8
Ciemicals and Pharmaceatisals
K/hon and Chandler Ilodosiies                                                          vew          33        32           55.8                 38             S.8             -                 2.3
Peoplon Phernownec2cal Limited                                                         tow          29        22           44.3                130             7.0             -                4.4
Kanhak  Limited                                                                         PMR         4C        24           48.3                 23             6.4             _                 2.2
Mis ia/icon Chemical Limited, DPasa                                                    New          48         14          62.4                1?2 .'.3                                         4 2h.4
Petro Chen/cals
lanati   Predvets (Pet.) Limited                                                       Nea         N.A.       25           61.6                 43             3.C             7C                1.7
Sitar Corpohatine Limited                                                              Sew         N.A.      P.A.          60.4                 19             5.C             _                7.9
M/s On/-Then Linited, ChintaganE                                                       BMR          27        3h           59.0                 32            /i.O             -                2.0
Service Indastries
Sped Tranrz BIothers Limited                                                           New         N.A.      N.A.          36.3                 48             6.2             30               2.4
hic Mosel Goldnn Gate
Puball ShcppWn p Limited                                                               Now        N.A. N.h.  N.A.          63.7                 68             2.5
Nt/s M. P. Wonrkthop Limited8, Ra1shehi                                                INS          3)       N.A.          66.4                 34            12.8
Miscellaneous
Spectacles Macofactsi  ..dt striet Limited                                             BPMR        N.A.      N.A.          52.2                 97             3.7
Pinto Color Lainras-ry Limited                                                         Sea         N.A.      N.A.          53.1                  8             7.9             _                  -
1/ Fi-anced f-ne all soarees.



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Partial Indicators of Sample IDA Projects Approved
FY76 - FY80
F.E.
Nature   IFRR      ERR    Financed   Employment    cJost/    Exps       SEarned!
Natur    IFRR ERR    Fnance    Empoyen         Job      Export     Saved
by BSB                                      Tk Million
Food and Allied Industries
1.  M/s International Seafood Limited        New      29.0%   20.0%      55%           158       $ 8,700    100%        12.10
2.  Mls Bay Trawlers                         New      28.0%   31.0%      50%           212       $31,400    100%        68.00
3.  M/s Laksham Automatic Rice and           New      30.0%   N.A.       63%            40       $ 4,100      0          0
Bran Oil Mills Limited
4.  M/s Altaf Rice Mills Limited             New      25.0%   35.0%      60%            40       $ 8,600     -           -
5.  M/s Sagarika Fishing Industries          New      33.0%   N.A.       60%            37       $10,400     -           -
Textiles
6.  Quasem Textile Mills Limited             BMR      30.0%   16.0%      60%           153       $10,639     -           5.01
7.  M/s Banani Textiles Mills Limited        New      43.0%   N.A.       55%            86       $ 3,053     -           -
Paper, Printing
8.  Ithefag Group of Publication Limited   BMR        24.0%   N.A.       31%            35       $ 9,200     -           -
9.  M/s Eastern Commercial Services          New      36.0%   39.0%      61%            34       $10,250     -           -         >
Limited
10.  M/s Signet Press Limited                 BMR      50.0%   36.0%      57%            13       $15,960     -           -
11.  Eastern Packaging Industries             BMR      24.0%   27.0%      57%            14       $24,200     -           -
Pharmaceuticals
12.  M/s Sarma Chemical Works Limited         New      50.0%   50.0%      54%            61       $12,500     -           7.67
13.  Scala Industries                         New      24.0%   18.5%      61%            29       $16,600     -           2.12
14.  People's Pharmaceutical Limited          New      29.0%   22.0%      43%           130       $ 2,600     -           4.40
Soaps and Chemicals
15.  M/s Green Soap and Chemical Company    New        50.0%   50.0%      54%            61       $12,500     -           7.70
16.  Premier Soap Factory                     BMR      N.A,    N.A.       41%            23       $18,700     -           -
17.  Sunshine Soap and Chemical               BMR      48.5%   26.0%      46%             9       $33,000     -           1.22
Transport
18.  M/s Fairtech Limited                     New      29.0%   N.A.       58%            34       $23,630     -           -         >
19.  S. Lines Navigation Company Limited    New        19.0%   29.0%      54%            21       $19,000      -          _
20.  Gurnte Enterprise Limited                New      19.0%   N.A.       53%            20       $18,680     -           -        X



- 75 -
ANNEX 18
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Trend of Arrears
FY76 - FY80
FY76     FY77      FY78     FY79      FY80
Companies in Arrears             648      638       685       656      621
Total Companies                  688      674       703       712      794
% Companies in Arrears           94.2     94.7      97.4      92.1     78.0
No. of Loans in Arrears          978     1053      1062      1045      980
Total No. of Loans              1194     1118      1084     1139      1305
% Loans in Arrears               81.9     94.2      97.9     91.7      75.0
Arrears (Tk Million)             633,     246       315       295      319
Outstanding Principal            949      998      1147     1355       781
Total Portfolio                 1232     1244      1434     1706      1952
% Arrears                        51.4     19.8      22.0     17.3      16.3
% Portfolio Infection            77.0     80.0      80.0     79.4      40.0



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Sectoral Analysis of Arrears
As of June 30, 1980
(Tk million)
Public                                     Private                                     Total
Principal  Interest   Other    Total   Principal  Interest   Other    Total  Principal    Interest   Other    Total
1.  Food and Allied Products                            7.5       10.8        0.1       18.4        18.2        15.9       0.3       34.4        25.7       26.7        0.4       52.8
2.  Jute and Allied Fibre Products                      3.6         0.2        -          3.8        6.6        12.9        -        19.5        10.2        13.1        -        23.3
3.  Cotton, Woolen & Synthetic Textiles                  -          0.8       0.6         1.4       21.3        22.0       0.3       43.6        21.3       22.8        0.9       45.0
4.  Paper, Paper Products and Printing                  9.6        14.7       0.1        24.4        9.1         8.5       0.1        17.7       18.7        23.2       0.2        42.1
5.  Tannery and its Prodtucts                            -           -         -           -         1.1         1.2        -          2.3        1.1         1.2        -          2.3
6.  Non-Metallic Mineral Products                        -           -         -           -        17.3        18.4       0.1        35.8       17.3        18.4       0.1        35.8
7.  Forest and Wood Products                            0.4        0.6         -          1.0        1.0         1.5        -          2.5        1.4         2.1        -          3.5
8.  Rubber and Rubber Products                          0.1          -         -          0.1        3.4         3.3        -          6.7        3.5         3.3        -          6.8
9.  Basic Metal Products                                 -           -         -                     0.9         0.5        -          1.4        0.9         0.5        -          1.4
10.  Metal Products                                      0.9         1.3        -          2.2        1.2         0.9        -          2.1        2.1         2.2        -          4.3
11.  Electrical Machinery and Goods                      0.1         0.2        -          0.3        1.2         1.5        -          2.7        1.3         1.7        -          3.0
12.  Machinery and Spare Parts                            -           -         -           -         1.1         0.9        -          2.0        1.1         0.9        -          2.0
13.  Transport Equipment:
(a) Water Transport                                0.5         1.0         -         1.5         5.9        6.9       0.1        12.9         6.4        7.9       0.1        14.4
(b) Road Transport                                   -          -          -          -         0.1         0.1         -         0.2        0.1         0.1         -         0.2  a
14.  Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals                        -           -         -           -         6.7         7.7       0.2        14.6        6.7         7.7       0.2        14.6
15.  Petro-Chemicals                                      -           -         -           -         0.4         0.5        -          0.9        0.4         0.5        -          0.9
16.  Service Industries                                  6.3         9.4       0.1        15.8       14.9         9.0       0.1        24.0       21.2        18.4       0.2        39.8
17.  Mining, Mineral Oil and Gas                          -           -         -           -          -           -         -           -          -           -                     -
18.  Miscellaneous                                       0.7         1.1        -          1.8        1.0         0.7        -          1.7        1.7         1.8        -          3.5
19.  BSCIC Sponsored Projects                            1.9         2.1       0.1         4.1       17.7        19.0       0.7        37.4       19.6        21.1       0.8        41.5
Sub-Total                        31.6        42.2       1.0        74.8      129.1       131.4       1.9       262.4      160.7       173.6       2.9       337.2
Less Credit Balances, etc.                                                                      18.01___                         18.0        18.0                             18.0
Total                            31.6        42.2       1.0        74.8      111.1       131.4        1.9      244.4      142.7       173.6       2.9       319.2
_           _             =                                                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 77 -
ANNEX 20
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Collection Performance : FY77-FY80
(Tk million)
FY77     FY78      FY7 FY79                FY80
Details                           Actual   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual
1.  Opening Balance - Arrears   632.2    245.5    240.0    240.0    342.7    342.7
2.  Amounts Falling Due           268.9    214.2    225.5    273.4    285.0    431.4
3.  Total Amounts Due             901.1    459.7    465.5    513.4    637.7    774.1
1/
4.  Cash Collections               90.1    144.4    182.5    130.1    240.0    385.1-
5.  Rescheduling                  565.5      75.3      47.5      40.6     55.0      69.8
6.  Total Collections             655.6    219.7    230.0    170.7    295.0    454.9
7.  Year End Arrears              245.5    240.0    235.5    342.7    332.7    319.2
8.  Cash Collection  % (4/3)       10.0      31.4      39.2      25.3     38.2      49.8
9.  Rescheduling  %                62.8      16.4      10.2       7.9      8.8       9.0
10.  Total Collection  %            72.8      47.8      49.4      33.2     47.0      58.8
1/ Adjusted to reflect payment of Tk 58.2 million of arrears from BTMC in
August 1980.
2/ Includes arrears of less than three months.



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Private Sector Collections - FY80
(Tk million)
Arrears    Falling   Total Am-  Cash Col-   Resche-                 Amount Outstanding   Collections  % Amounts Due
Sector                                   1 July,'79      Due FY80  ount Due   lections    duling    Total   June 30, 1980              Cash   Rescheduling   Total
1.  Food and Allied Products                      22.9         26.2        49.1        13.1          1.6        14.7         34.4          27            3           30
2.  Jute and Allied Fibre Products                 3.7         20.3        24.0          2.6         1.9         4.5         19.5          11            8           19
3.  Cotton, Woolen & Syntehtic Textiles           28.9         19.1        48.1          3.6         0.8         4.4         43.6           7            2            9
4.  Paper. Paper Products and Printing            12.3         22.3        34.6         13.2         3.7        16.9         17.7          39           11           50
5.  Tannery and its Products                       2.0          2.3         4.3          1.3         0.7         2.0          2.3          29           16           45
6.  Non-Metallic Mineral Products                 33.3          8.0        41.3          4.0         1.5         5.5         35.8          10            4           14
7.  Forest and Wood Products                       2.2          0.4         2.6         0.1           -          0.1          2.5           4            -            4
8.  Rubber and Rubber Products                     6.2          1.2         7.4           -          0.7         0.7          6.7           -            9            9
9.  Basic Metal Products                           0.7          1.9         2.6          1.2          -           1.2         1.4          46            -           46
10.  Metal Products                                  1.3         2.8         4.1          0.2         1.8          2.0         2.1            5          43           48
11.  Electrical Machinery and Goods                 2.4          1.9         4.3          1.6          -           1.6         2.7          44            _           44
12.  Machinery and Spare Parts                       1.0         1.3         2.3          0.2         0.1         0.3          2.0            8           4           12
13.  Transport Equipments                            7,3        16.0        23.3          5.0         5.2          10.2       13.1          22           23           45
14.  Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals                  7.0          9.6        16.6          2.0          -            2.0       14.6          12            -            12
15.  Petro-Chemicals                                0.6          0.3         0.9           -           -             -         0.9            -           -            -
16.  Service Industries                            12.2         26.2        38.4          7.0         7.4          14.4       24.0          18           19           37    J
17.  Mining, Mineral Oil & Gas                        -           -           -            -           -             -          -             -           -             -
18.  Miscellaneous                                  0.9          1.2         2.1          0.3         0.1           0.4        1.7           14           5           19
19.  BSCIC Sponsored Project                       31.8          7.9        39.7          1.0         1.3           2.3       37.4            3           3            6
Totals                       176.7        168.9       345.6         56.4        26.5         83.2      262.4            16           8           24
=           =~~XM= ==_            2            n===--==



- 79 -
AN_EX 22
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Arrears Under Litigation
As of June 30, 1980
(Tk million)
Total     Amount of
Section                                 Principal       Interest    Amount    Collateral
1.  Food and Allied Products                6.6            6.2        12.8          9.1
2.  Textiles                               17.0           14.5        31.5         11.9
4.  Paper and Product/Printing              7.9            4.9        12.8          8.2
5.  Tanneries                               0.2            0.3         0.5          1.4
6.  Non-Metallic Minerals/Bricks            8.7           11.3        20.0          6.5
7.  Wood and Wood Products                  0.3            0.4         0.7          0.8
8.  Rubber abd Rubber Products/Tyres        4.0            4.3         8.3          2.5
10.  Metal Products/Zippers                  0.2            0.3         0.5          0.4
13.  (a)  Water Transports                   2.0            2.1         4.1          1.6
(b)  Road Transports                   0.1            0.3         0.4          0.1
14.  Chemicals/Pharmaceuticals               3.3            1.9         5.2          1.0
16.  Service Industries                      6.5            2.9         9.4         12.9
Cinemas                                 1.9            1.1         3.10         3.3
Subtotal BSB                 58.8           50.5       109.3         59.8
19.  BSCIC Sponsored Projects                3.2            4.0         7.:2         2.6
Total                        62.0           54.5       116.5         62.4
% of Private Sector Arrears           55.9            41.6        47.7



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Private Sector Collection Targets - FY81
(Tk Million)
Opening    Due      Total            Collections              Year End             % Collection
Sector            Balance    FY81       Due    Cash   Rescheduling   Total   Arrears    Cash   Rescheduling    Total
Food and Allied Indus-
Industries              34.4       34.4     68.8   30.5         9.8          40.3      28.5      44.3        14.3          58.6
Jute and Allied
Products                19.5       27.2     46.7   13.5         5.6          19.1      27.6      29.0        11.9          40.9
Cotton Textile             43.6       25.6      69.2   21.7        8.3          30.0      39.2      31.4        12.0          43.4
Paper Products             17.7       29.8      47.5   14.0        5.6          19.6      27.9      29.5        11.8          41.3
Leather/Tanneries           2.3        3.3       5.6    1.7        0.7            2.4       3.2     30.4        12.5          42.9
Non Metallic Minerals    35.8         10.6      46.4   13.5        5.6           19.1     27.3      29.1        12.1           41.2
Forestry Products           2.5        0.4       2.9    0.8        0.3            1.1      1.8      27.6        10.4           38.0
Rubber and Rubber
Products                 6.7        1.6       8.3    2.4        1.0           3.4       4.9      29.0        12.0          41.0
Basic Metal Products        1.4        2.5       3.9    1.1        0.5            1.6      2.3      28.2        12.8           41.0
Metal Products              2.1        3.8       5.0    1.7        0.7            2.4       3.5     28.8        11.9           40.7
Electric Machinery          2.0        2.5       4.5    1.3        0.5            1.8      2.7      29.0        11.0           40.0
Machinery                   2.1        1.7       3.8    1.1        0.5            1.6       2.2     29.0        13.0           42.0
Transport                  13.1       21.4      34.5    9.9        4.1          14.0      20.5      28.7        11.9           40.6
Chemical                   14.6       12.8      27.4    7.9         3.3          11.2     16.2      28.8        11.1           40.9
Petrol Chemical             0.9        0.4       1.3    0.4        0.2            0.6      0.7      31.0        15.1           46.1
Service Industries         24.0       35.8      59.8   17.3        7.2          24.5      35.5      29.0        12.0           41.0
Miscellaneous               1.7        1.6       3.3    0.9        0.4            1.3       2.0     27.3        12.7           40.0
Subtotal                225.0      215.4    440.4  139.7        54.3         194.0    246.4       31.8        12.2          44.0
BSCIC                    37.4       10.5      47.9    4.7        5.7          10.4      37.5      10.0        11.7          21.7
Totl  _      ... ...                               .         .           .3            .9
Total                   262.4      225.9    488.3  144.4        60.0         2014.4    283.9      29.6        12.3          41.9       M



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
COLLECTION TARGETS - FY81-FY83
(TK MILLION)
FY81                              FY82                              FY83
Public    Private    Total        Public    Private    Total        Public    Private    Total
1. Opening Balance              75         262        337          48         311        359         48         358        406
2. Amount fallen due           191         226        417        192          361        553        193         544        737
3. Total Recoverable           266         488        754        240          672        912        241         902       1143
4. Cash Collection             128         117        245         165         249        414        162         415        577
5. Rescheduled/Adjusted/
Written-off Amount           90          60        150          27         650         92         31          83        114
6. Total Collections           218         177        395         192         314        506        193         498        691            1
7. Closing Balance              48         311        359          48         358        406         48         404        452
8. % Cash Collection            48          24          32         69          37         45         67          46         50
9. % Rescheduling               34           12         20          7          10         10         13            9         10
10. % Total Collection           82           35         52         80          47         55         80           54         60



- 82 -                                   ANNEX 25
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Income Statements
FY76 - FY80
(Tk Million)
FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    Forecast
Interest Receivable
L.C. Loans                        13.9    65.7    60.7    67.4    96.0    109.0
F.C. Loans                        39.6    37.6    41.2    48.5    58.4          84.1
Arrears                           66.6      2.4    20.7    17.6    27.6         12.1
Investments                       22.9    35.7    46.1    48.8    36.5          43.5
143.0   141.4   168.7   182.3   218.5    248.7
Interest Payable
Deposits                          14.2    23.7    30.8    38.0    46.5          42.7
L.C. Borrowings                    3.5      3.5      2.8      2.9      2.8       2.7
F.C. Borrowings                   28.9    27.7    37.0    35.1    45.0          63.9
Exchange Risk                      1.3      1.2      1.5      1.6      2.1       1.8
Inputed Interest                  18.4    22.8    27.1    30.9    34.3          32.7
66.3    78.9    99.2   108.5   130.7    143.8
Net Interest Received                76.7    62.5    69.5    73.8    87.8    104.9
Plus
Income from Securities           2.5      4.2      4.5      8.7    12.8        6.6
Fees and Commission              0.6      0.9      2.6      4.0      5.2       6.2
Exchange Risk Gains              1.4      1.5      1.8      2.8      3.7       1.3
Miscellaneous                    1.6      0.4      0.8      2.3      4.8       1.6
Total Operating Income              82.8    69.5    79.2    91.6   114.3    120.6
Less
Operating Expenses
Staff Expenses                   6.8      7.2      9.9    12.5    14.4        12.1
Directors' Fees                   -        -        -        -       0.1       0.1
Property Expenses                0.1      0.2      0.3      0.6      0.6       0.5
Other Expenses                   4.8      5.2      6.3      8.6    12.2        9.6
11.7    12.6    16.5    21.7    27.3         22.3
Profit Before Taxes                 71.1    56.9    62.7    69.9    87.0          98.3
Less
Provision for Taxes             15.8    16.0    19.0    22.9    46.6          30.5
Profit After Tax                55.3    40.9    43.7    47.0    40.4          67.8
Less
Provision for Bad Debts         39.5    24.8    24.6    24.7    19.8          36.8
Dividends                        2.5      2.5      5.0      5.0      6.1       5.0
42.0    27.3    29.6    29.7    25.9         41.8
Unappropriated Balance               13.3    13.6    14.1    17.3    14.5         26.0



-83 -
ANNEX 26
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Balance Sheets
Year Ended June 30, 1976-1980
(Tk Million)
ASSETS                   FY76         FY77         FY78         FY79         FY80 a/    Forecast
-   FY80
Current Assets
Cash - on Hand                          0.5          0.7          0.8          0.9         1.3
- Bangladesh Bank                 18.2         32.1         33.6        40.6        45.3
- Other Banks                      2.4          4.5        114.1       112.7       224.4         438.3
- at Call                        269.0        373.2        370.2       271.5       142.5
- Foreign Correspondents           0.3          1.5          2.1          2.9        1.8
Interest Accrued                       21.3         30.0         33.9         42.6       46.0          42.6
Working Capital Loans                   5.0          2.6          4.8          7.1         9.9          11.1
Other Items                            17.0         54.8         83.6        125.7      186.7         126.6
Subtotal                            333.7        499.4        643.1        604.0      657.9         618.6
Investment
GOB Bonds                              58.7         42.4         37.3         83.6      102.6          119.7
Treasury Receipts                       5.0         35.0         35.0         35.0        35.0
Equity Investment (Net)                 9.0         14.3         14.0         12.1       18.1           12.6
Subtotal                             72.7         91.7         86.3        130.7      155.7         132.3
Advances
Taka Loans                            120.9        548.2        685.5        811.9    1,017.4       1,084.2
Foreign Currency Loans                446.5        429.9        460.9        571.6      582.9         830.2
Bridge Financing                        1.2                       0.4          1.7        6.6            7.8
Arrears (Principal/Interest)          632.1        321.7        316.2        418.9      378.4         460.2
Staff Loans                             7.0          8.1         10.2         14.8       39.6          20.1
Other Advances                          0.5          0.3          3.3          2.2        1.5            4.4
Subtotal                          1,208.2      1,308.2      1,476.5     1,821.1    2,026.4        2,406.9
Provision for Bad Debts               108.6        134.0        167.2        216.3      187.5          253.0
Subtotal                          1,099.6      1,174.2     1,309.3      1,604.8    1,838.9        2,153.9
Fixed Assets
Land                                    0.7          0.7          1.5          1.8        4.4            1.8
Premises                                0.7          0.7          0.7          2.1       19.5           22.1
Motor Vehicles                          1.2          1.0          2.6          3.0        3.6            3.0
Furniture - Fittings                                                            -
Subtotal                              2.6          2.4          4.8          6.9       27.5          26.9
TOTAL ASSETS                        1,508.6      1,767.7      2,043.5      2,346.4    2,679.8       2,931.7
Contingent Assets
F.C. Guarantee
F.C. Letters of Credit                                           10.0                   125.2
Taka Guarantee                                                    7.0                     -
Tender Guarantee                                                  1.0                     _
TOTAL CONTINGENT ASSETS                -            -            18.0         -         125.2           -
TOTAL ASSETS INCLUDING              1,508.6      1,767.7      2,061.5      2,346.4   2,805.2        2,931.7
CONTINGENT ASSETS
a! Adjusted FY80.



- 84 -                                    ANNEX 26
Page 2
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Balance Sheets
Year Ended June 30, 1976-1980
(Tk Million)
FY76         FY77         FY78         FY79         FY80 a/    Forecast
FY80
LIABILITIES
Equ.ity
Paid up Capital                               50.0        100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0         100.0
Capital Reserves                             150.0        150.0        150.0        150.0       262.9         150.0
Reserves                                      36.7         47.4         61.3         78.3         -           104.4
nappropriated P/L                                                             _                              _
Subtotal                                   236.7        297.4        311.3        328.3       362.9         354.4
Subordinated Loans                            16.6         16.6         16.6         16.6         -            16.6
War Adjustment Account
Reserves                                     387.3         91.1        128.7        162.9       189.9         195.7
Jnrecognized F/C Loans                       228.9        530.7        530.7        530.7       196.6         530.7
_ocal Currency IDBP Loans                     55.5         55.5         55.5         55.5          7.5         55.5
Interest Due                                  58.8        102.9        124.7        154.9        53.9         159.3
Subtotal                                   730.5        780.2        839.6        904.0       447.9         941.2
Long Term Borrowings
BSCIC                                          3.9          3.9          3.9          3.9         3.9            3.9
F/C Loans                                    238.6        282.9        322.4        462.2       878.3         743.7
Debentures                                    40.0         40.0         40.0         40.0        40.0          40.0
Cuarantees 
Subtotal                                   282.5        326.8        366.3        506.1       922.2         787.6
Deposits
Fixed Deposits                               153.9        227.5        338.7        355.8       440.2         444.6
Short Term Deposits                           20.5         14.8         10.5          4.4        58.6          12.5
Savings Bank Deposits                          7.5          8.1          9.3         12.4        16.4          13.7
Current Accounts                               9.5         22.7         44.3         60.4        36.0         212.7
Other Deposits                                38.8         21.9         25.6         35.9        40.9          37.1
Subtotal                                   230.2        295.0        428.4        468.9       592.1         720.6
Current Liabilities
Taxes Payable                                  2.5         20.7         39.7         62.6       311.7          56.2
Surplus to the National Exchequer                           5.0          5.1         10.4         6.1           5.0
Special Blocked Account                        0.5          0.3          0.2          0.2         0.2           0.2
Accrued Interest                              -            14.0         16.0         21.3        28.4          21.7
Other                                          8.7         11.1         19.8         26.5         7.0          26.6
Bills Payable                                  0.4          0.6          0.5          1.5         1.3           1.6
Subtotal                                    12.1         51.7         81.3        122.5       354.7         111.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES                          1,508.6      1,767.7      2,043.5      2,346.4      2,679.8      2,931.7
Contingent Liabilities                                                  18.0                     125.5
1,5n8.6      1,767.7      2,061.5      2,346.4      2,805.2      2,931.7
a! Adjusted FY80



- 85 -
ANNEX 27
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Debt/Equity Ratios
FY78-FY8O
(Tk Million)
FY78        FY79         FY80 -1
Total Assets                    2,061.5      2,346.4    2,679.8
Less
- Equity                     311.3        328.3      362.9
- Current Liabilities         81.3        122.5      204.7
- Deposits                    89.7        113.1      151.9
482.3       563.9       719.5
Total                           1,579.2      1,782.5    1,960.3
Equity                            311.3        328.3      362.9
D/E Ratio                           5.1          5.4        5.4
/  Adjusted FY80 Accounts.  An infusion of Tk 50.0 million in February
1981 brings the D/E Ratio to 4.7:1.



- 86 -
ANNEX 28
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Operational Ratios
FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80
A. PROFITABILITY RATIOS
1.  Profit before tax as a percentage        2.2      2.0     2.0      2.1      2.0
of average total assets
2.  Profit after tax as a percentage of    1.1        1.0     1.0      1.0     0.9
average total assets
3. Profit after tax as a percentage of
average equity                         4.5     3.2      4.6     4.8      4.7
B.  CAPITAL STRUCTURE RATIOS
4.  Current ratio                           2.6:1   2.8:1   2.5:1   1.9:1   1.5:1
5.  Debt/equity ratio                       1.2:1   3.1:1   5.1:1   5.4:1   5.4:1
C. ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
6.  Annual rate of growth of total          13.8    17.2    15.6    14.8    15.5
assets (percentage)
D. FINANCIAL MARGINS
7. Income from term loans as
percentage of average loan            11.6      9.5    10.2      9.6    10.6
portfolio
8.  Cost of term debt as a percentage        5.0      5.2     6.5      7.1      7.4
of average debt
9.  Dividends as a percentage of average   0.4        0.1     0.4      1.8      2.6
equity portfolio
E. EXPENSES
10.  Financial cost as a percentage of        4.7      4.8      5.2     4.9      5.2
average total assets
11.  Administrative cost as a percentage    0.8        0.8      0.9     1.0      1.1
of average total assets
F. RESERVES
12.  Reserve for bad debt as a percentage   9.2    10.5    11.5    12.1         8.6
of loan and equity portfolio
G. DIVIDENDS
13.  Dividends payment as a percentage of   7.9    15.6    13.3    11.5    10.1
net earnings
PROFITABILITY OF EQUITY PORTFOLIO
1.  Profit and Provision as a percentage  20.3    11.3    15.1    15.0    15.3
of average equity
2.  Profits before tax as a percentage       9.1    32.0    38.0    45.0    67.0
of average equity
3.  Profits after tax as a percentage of   4.5    16.0    19.0    22.0    20.0
average equity



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Project Pipeline as of June 30, 1980
(Tk Million)
Under Appraisal                                    Under Preparation                                        Total
Currency                                            Currency                                            Currency
Industrial Sector                             No.           Foreign             Local             No.           Foreign             Local             No.            Foreign            Local
I.   PRIVATE SECTOR
1.   Food and Allied Products                              95             222.82            234.69             18              28.00             22.17            113             252.82            256.86
2.   Jute and Allied Fibre Products                          3              3.67             51.31               3              1.23               1.15              6              4.90              52.46
3.   Cotton, Woollen & Synthetic Textiles                  37             158.97             48.58              10             31.03               4.87             47            190.00              53.45
4.   Paper, Paper Products & Printing                       14             34.26             10.22               3             15.05               0.62             17             49.31              10.84
5.   Tannery and Its Products                               5              94.04             24.90               -                -                 -                5             94.04              24.90
6.   Non-Metallic Mineral Products                         11              55.46             27.89               -                -                 -               11             55.46              27.89
7.   Forest and Wood Products                               6               2.66              2.16              -                -                  -                6              2.66               2.16
8.   Metal Products                                         15             52.77             32.87               6               7.29             10.27             21              60.06             43.14
9.   Electrical Machinery and Goods                          3             68.36              5.07               -                -                 -                3             68.36               5.07
10.   Machinery and Spare Parts                              4               6.33               3.46              -                -                 -                4               6.33              3.46
11.   Transport Equipments:
(a)  Water Transport                               63              80.57            119.39               1                -                4.80             64              30.57            124.19   9
(b)  Road Transport                                 20                -              52.06               1               1.24              0.16             21               1.24             52.22
12.   Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals                         14              91.97             43.91               -                -                 -               14             91.97              43.91
13.   Petro-Chemicals                                         2              1.35               1.41              1               2.99              1.83              3               4.34              3.24
14.   Service Industries                                    57              57.03            119.64              12             28.91              24.03             69             85.94             143.67
15.   Miscellaneous                                           -                -                 -                -
SUB TOTAL:             349             930.26.           777.56              55            115.74              69.90            404           1046.00             847.46
II. PUBLIC SECTOR
1.   Electrical Machinery and Goods                         -                -                  -                1             17.56              12.80              1             17.56              12.80
2.   Chemical and Pharmaceuticals                            1              4.80                -                -                -                 -                1               4.80
SUB TOTAL:                1              4.80                -                1             17.56              12.80              2              22.36             12.80  R
TOTAL (PRIVATE AND PUBLIC)                                 350             935.06            777.56              56            133.30              82.70            406            1068.36            860.26



- 88 -
ANNEX 30
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projection Assumptions - FY81-FY85
Lending Operations
1.        Gross Approvals.  During FY81 it is assumed that 215 projects will
be sanctioned with a total investment cost of Tk 1.9 billion 1/. On the basis
that 60% of the project cost will be by way of loan financing, total lending
requirements are projected at Tk 1.2 billion. Of this requirement, Tk 0.9
billion would be in foreign currency and the balance in local currency. In
the years subsequent to FY81 an annual average growth rate of 10% is projected.
With the exception of two public sector projects for Tk 35 million, all FY81
projects would be in the private sector. From FY81 onwards, no public
sector projects would be sanctioned.
2.        Net Approvals.  Net approvals have been computed on the assumption
of a 10% withdrawal from gross approvals.
3.        Commitments.  Uncommitted approvals of Tk 900 million (Tk 615
million in foreign currency and Tk 285 million in local currency) have been
assumed to be committed as follows; FY81 - 67% and FY82 - 33%. Thereafter,
commitmentsof loan approvals have been assumed as follows:
- Year of sanctioning - 40%
- Year 2                 40%
- Year 3                 20%
4.        Disbursements.  Outstanding letters of credit totalling Tk 111
million as of June 30, 1980 are assumed to be fully utilized in FY81.
Thereafter, foreign currency disbursements are projected as follows:
- Year of commitment - 40%
- Year 2                50%
- Year 3                10%
5.        Local currency commitments of Tk 210 million are assumed to be
disbursed as follows; 67% in FY81 and 35% in FY82. Thereafter, disbursement of
local currency loans have been projected as follows:
- Year of commitment - 60%
- Year 2                30%
- Year 3                10%
1/ Based on proposals in the pipeline as of June 30, 1980, subsequent
application, projects sanctioned by the Department of Industries and GOB
SFYP.



- 89 -
ANNEX 30
Page 2
Resource Collection
6.        Foreign Currency.  A credit of US$50 million is projected for FY81
followed by a credit of US$40.0 million from ADB in FY82. Thereafter,
foreign currency requirement of US$61.5 million, US$71.5 million and
US$76.5 million for FY83, FY84 and FY85 respectively are projected.
7.        Local Currency.  Cash collections of amounts falling due from the
private sector are projected at 24% in FY81, 37.0% in FY82 and 46% in FY83.
Cash collecitors from the public sector are projected at 80% in FY81, 80% in
FY82 and 80% in FY83. From FY83 onwards, collections are projected to remain
at about 52% of amounts falling due.
8.        Share capital is projected to be increased by Tk 100 million in
FY82 and by Tk 150 million in FY84. Additional funds are expected from GOB/BB
thrugh the provision of Tk 150 million in FY81 and Tk 100 million in FY82.
Deposits are projected to increase by an annual average rate of 17.5% with
present deposits increasing by 10% per annum and current account by 220% in
FY81 thereafter by 32% annually.
Income/Expenses
9.        Interest earned on BSB's average portfolio outstanding at the end of
each year has been projected on the following basis:
* foreign currency loans
-  existing      10.2%
-  new          14.0%
- local currency loans
-  existing      10.2%
- new           14.0%
The rate of penalty interest applied has been 4.0% per annum.
10.       Interest paid on borrowings and deposits have been assumed as
follows:
- foreign currency      8.5% per annum
- local currency        6.5% per annum
- deposit              14.25% per annum
BSB administration expenses have been projected to increase by 23% per annum.



- 90 -
ANNEX 31
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Loan Operations - FY81-FY85
(Tk Millions)
FY80     FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85
Gross Approvals
Foreign Currency              722       595       745      865      1060      1140
Local Currency                370       600      595       610       565       640
1092     1195      1340      1475      1625     1780
Net Approvals
Foreign Currency              650       535      705       825      1005      1085
Local Currency                335       540      570       575       540       610
985     1075      1275      1400      1545     1695
Commitments
Foreign Currency              248       510       700      660       855       920
Local Currency                223       515      585       460       465       520
471     1025      1285      1120     1320      1440
Disbursements
Foreign Currency               91       365      560       560       725       780
Local Currency                261       360      470       395       400       445
352      725      1030       955     1125      1225
Approval/Commitment (%)           48        95       101        80       85        85
Commitment/Disbursement (%)       75        71        80        85       85        85



- 91 -
ANNEX 32
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Resource Position - FY81-FY85
(US$ Millions)
FY80       FY81       FY82       FY83       FY84       FY85
Foreign Currency
Resources Available for
Commitment                      32.4        33.7       33.5      18.5       17.0       19.5
Plus: New Resources
- Untied (IDA, ADB)          5.7        50.0      45.5       51.5       61.5       61.5
- Bilateral                 10.3          -         -        10.0       10.0       15.0
48.4       83.7       79.0       80.0       88.5       96.0
Less: New Commitments             14.7        50.2       60.5       63.0       69.0      76.5
BALANCE FOR COMMITMENT            33.7        33.5       18.5       17.0      19.5       19.5
Local Currency (Tk Millions)
Resources available for
Disbursement                   212.9       299.3       72.8       54.6     113.3      160.8
Plus: Internal Cash
generation                  74.7        60.4      78.8      107.3      137.4      166.7
Collections               151.2         98.8     107.5      198.8      308.9      458.8
Deposits                   123.8      103.6       86.1       91.9       98.1      134.0
Collection Short-term
Advance                      1.0         1.5        2.5       3.5        4.5        5.5
Non Cash Interest           13.2         1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
Share Capital                -         50.0         -          -          -          -
Loans B/B                    -            -      380.0      200.0      100.0         -
Others/Advances             60.0        66.0      28.0       50.0       32.0       47.0
Sub-total          636.8       680.6      758.7     707.1       795.2     973.8
Less: GOB Bonds                   22.5        50.0        8.0        8.0        8.0      10.0
Equity Investments                       1.0       1.0        2.0        3.0        3.0
Disbursement Loans         261.0       360.0     470.0      395.0      400.0      445.0
Fixed Assets                21.0        95.8     106.1       32.8       16.4       18.7
Dividends                    5.0         6.0        -          -          -          -
Repayments                  28.0       95.0      117.0      156.0      207.0      256.0
337.5       607.8     702.1      593.8      634.4      732.7
BALANCE FOR DISBURSEMENT         299.3        72.8      54.6       113.3     160.8      241.1
* Actual



- 92 -                           ANNEX 33
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Income Statements
(Tk Millions)
FY81 - FY85
FY80      FY81      FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85
:NCOME
-nterest on L/C Loans                    96,0     138.5    187.2    235.9    285.3    340.5
-nterest on F/C Loans                     58.4      99.4    164.4    254.4    355.9    459.9
.nterest on Arrears                      27.6       24.3     28.8      28.4      26.5     21.6
ji>ter>est on Investments                36.5       38.8       9.2     11.4      13.8     16.4
Total Interest Earned:          218.5      301.0    389.6    530.1    681.5    838.5
nterest Payable
Interest Paid on Deposits                 46.5      69.1      78.7      83.2     88.9      96.2
rnterest Paid on L/C Borrowing             2.8       2.8       2.8       2.7      2.8       2.8
Interest  Paid on F/C Borrowing           45.0      98.3    133.4    188.0    251.7    318.9
Exchange Risk Commission                   2.1        1.9      3.1       4.7      6.7       8.8
Imnputed Interest                         34.3      13.2      13.2      13.5     13.6      13.7
Total Interest Paid:            130.7      185.3    231.2    292.4    363.7    440.4
Net Interest Earned:              87.8     115.7    158.4    237.7    317.8    398.1
-lus  Income from Securities              12.8      23.6      31.2      32.8     34.7      36.6
Fees and Commissions                 5.2       6.5       7.7       9.0     10.0      10.5
Exchange                             3.7       1.8       2.9       4.5      6.4       8.2
Other Income                         4.8       2.2       2.5       2.8      3.2       3.8
Total Operating Income:           26.5      34.2      44.3     49.1      54.3     59.1
Net Income:                     114.3      149.8    202.7    286.8    372.1    457.2
Less: Operating Expenses
Staff Expenses (incl. Bonus/              14.4       15.0     17.3      19.0     21.5      23.0
Gratuities)
Directors Fees and Allowances              0.1        0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.i
Property Expenses                          0.6        0.7      0.7       6.1       6.0      6.0
Other Operating Expenses                  12.2       15.9     20.7      27.0      35.0     45.6
Total Expenses:                   27.3      31.7      38.8     52.2      62.6     74.7
Profit before Taxes                       87.0      118.1    163.9    234.6    309.5    382.5
Less:
Provision for Taxation (60%)              46.6       70.9      98.3    140.8    185.7    229.5
Net Profit:                      40.4       47.2     65.6      93.8    123.8    153.0
Less:
Provision for Bad Debts                   19.8       47.2     65.6      93.8    123.8    153.0
Dividend                                   6.1
Other Reserves                            14.5                    _     ___     _ 
40.4      47.2      65.6     93.8    123.8    153,0
* Actual



-93 -                           ANNEX 34
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Balance Sheets
(FY81-FY85)
(TK Millions)
FY80       FY81      FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash on Hand/Bank                 415.3       96.8      43.8      50.8      60.1      67.7
Interest Accrual                   46.Q       46,0      46.0      46,0      46.0      46.0
Working Capital Loans              10.0       11.9      14.0      16.2      18.6      21.2
Other Items                       186.6      129.2    123.9    132.9    153.2    189.2
Sub-total                 657.9      283.9    227.1    245.9    277.9    324.1
Investment
GOB Securities                    102.6      152.2    160.2    168.3    177.6    187.3
Treasury Receipts                  35.0       35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0
Equity (Net)                       18.2       19.2      20.7      22.7      25.2      28.1
Sub-total                  155.8      206.4    215.9    226.0    237.8    250.4
Advances
Taka Loans                       1017.4    1292.9   1645.8   1884.6   2102.3   2329.5
Foreign Currency Loans            583.0      889.7   1360.7   1774.8   2282.3   2771.2
Bridge Finance                      6.6        7.6       9.6      12.1      15.1      18.6
Arrears Principal/Interest        378.6      420.6    519.2    622.5    713.4    763.4
Staff Loans                        39.6       64.1      88.4    112.4    136.1    159.6
Others                              1.2        1.7       2.7       4.2       6.2       8.7
2026.4    2676.5   3626.4   4410.6   5255.4   6051.0
Provision for Bad Debts           187.5      234.7    300.3    394.1    517.9    670.9
Sub-total                 1838.9    2441.8   3325.7   4016.5   4737.5   5380.1
Fixed Assets
Land                                4.4        6.4       8.9      10.9      13.4      15.9
Buildings                          19.5      111.9    214.5    239.1    246.9    256.8
Others                              3.5        4.1       4.3       4.4       4.5       4.8
27.4      122.4    227.7    254.4    264.8    277.5
TOTAL ASSETS                       2680.0)   3054.5   3996.4   4742.8   5518.0   6232.1
Contingent Assets                    125.2      125.2    125.2    125.2    125.2    125.2
2805.2    3179.7   4121.6   4868-.    5643.2   6357.2
% Asset Growth                                   13        30        18        16        13



- 94 -
ANNEX 34
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK                       Page 2
Projected Balance Sheets
(FY81-FY85)
(TK Millions)
FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83      FY84     FY85
LIABILITIES                    ~                          
Shareholders Funds
Share Capital                     100.0      150.0    150.0    150.0    150.0    150.0
Capital Reserves                  262.9      262.9    262.9    262.9    262.9    262.9
Appropriation Account              -                                        -
Sub-total                   362.9     412.9    412.9    412.9    412.9    412.9
Subordinated Loans                   _          -        380.0    580.0    680.0    680.0
War Adjustment Account
UTarecognised F/C Loans           196.6      196.6    196.6    196.6    196.6    196.6
IDBI  L/C Loans                     7.5        7.5       7.5       7.5      7.5       7.5
Interest Due                       53.9       54.8      55.6      56.4     57.1      57.7
Reserves and Provisions           181.8      195.1    208.5    221.9    235.5    249.2
Sub-total                   439.8      454.0    468.2    482.4    496.7    511.0
Long Term Borrowings
BSCIC                                3.9       3.9       3.9       3.9       3.9      3.9
F/C Loans                         878.3    1147.9   1590.8   1993.9   2511.4   3030.4
Debentures                         40.0       40.0      40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0
Sub-total                   922.2    1191.8   1634.7   2037.8   2555.3   3073.9
D4po.0s8its
Fixed Deposits                    440.2      511.6    537.2    564.0    592.2    648.9
Short-Term                          58.6      16.2      21.6      31.2      45.3     49.6
Savings Accounts                    16.4      15.0      16.5      18.2      20.0     21.9
Current Accounts                    36.0     114.8    166.9    219.2    271.6    342.8
Others                              41.7      39.0      40.3      41.8      43.5     43.5
Sub-total                   592.9      696.6    782.5    874.4    972.6   1106.7
Current Liabilities
Taxes Payable                      319.2     252.9    257.7    275.9    296.3    316.0
Dividends Payable                    6.1       -         -         -         -         -
Accrued Interest                   28.4       30.9      34.8      39.8     46.0      53.4
Others                              8.9       15.4      25.6      39.6     58.2      78.2
362.2     299.2    318.1    355.3    400.5    447.6
Total                            2680.0    3054.5   3996.4   4742.8   5518.0   6232.1
Contingent Liabilities            125.2      125.2    125.2    125.2    125.2    125.2
2805.2    3179.7   4121.6   4868.0   5643.2   6357.2
* Actual



- 95 -
ANNEX 35
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Cash Flow
FY81 - FY85
(Tk Millions)
SOURCE                                 FY80      FY81     FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85
Profit after tax                       40.4      47.2     65.6      93.8    123.8    153.0
Depreciation                            0.6       0.7      0.8       6.1      6.0       6.0
Share Capital Increases                          50.0       -         -        -
Subordinated Loans                       -         -     380.0    200.0    100.0        -
Demand Deposits                       123.9    103.6      86.1      91.9     98.1    134.2
F/C Borrowings                         91.0    365.0    560.0    560.0    725.0    780.0
Others                                 60.2      66.3     28.6      43.2     46.6      47.2
Imputed Interest                       34.3      13.2     13.2      13.5     13.6     13.7
350.* 4    646.- 0   1134.3   1008.5   1113.1   1134.1
Collections (Principal)               151 .2     98.8    107.5    198.8    308.9    458.8
Short Term Advances                     1.0       1.5      2.5       3.5      4.5       5.5
Non Cash Expenses                      13.2       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
165.4    101.3    111 0    203.3    314. 4    465.3
Total Funds                           515.8    747.3   1245.3   1211.8  1427.5   1599.4
Application of Funds
Increase Fixed Assets                  21.2      95.8    106.1      32.8     16.4     18.7
Disbursement: F/C Loans                91.0    365.0    560.0    560.0    725.0    780.0
L/C Loans               261.0    360.0    470.0    395.0    400.0    445.0
S/T Advances              3.7      3.9      5.6       7.2      8.8      10.6
Equity                    5.2      2.0       3.5      4.5      5.5       6.5
Staff Loans                       25.0     24.0      42.4    21.0       23.0
Other Items             105.6     42.6    (17,9)       -       32.6.    42.3
466.5    894.3  1151.3   1 01.9   1 2O--  T3276
Repayments:   F/C Borrowings           27.9      95.4    117.0    156.9    207.5    260.9
Taxes                     -       70.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0
Interest Received         3.3       -        -         -        -         -
Dividends                10.2      6.1       -         -        -         -
41.4    171.5    137.0    176.9    227.5    280 . 9
Total Applications                    529.1   1065.8   1288.3   1218.8   1436.8   1607.0
Surplus/Deficit                        (13.1)  (318.5)   (53.0)      7.0      9.3       7.6
Open Balance                          428.6   415.3       96.8      43.8     50.8      60.1
Closing Balance                       415.3      96.8     43.8      50.8     60.1      67.7



- 96 -
ANNEX 36
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Debt Servicing
FY81 - FY85
(Tk Millions)
FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83       FY84      FY85
Net Profit After Tax                40.4      47.2      65.6      93.8    123.8    153.0
Plus:
Depreciation                         0.6       1.0       1.0       6.0       6.0       6.0
Cash Collections                   151.2      98.8    107.6    198.8    308.9    458X8
Imputed Interest                    34.3      13.2      13.2      13.5      13.6      13.7
Financial Expenses                  96.4    172.1    218.0    278.9    350.1    426.7
Interest Receivable                (46.0)      -         -         -         -         -
276.9    332.3    405.3    591.0    802.4   1058,2
Debt Servicing Charges
Back Taxes                           -        20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0
Loans                               27.9      95.4    117.0    156.9    207.5    260.9
Financial Expenses                  96.4    172.1    218.0    278.9    350.1    426.7
A.      124.3    287.5    355.0    455.8    577.6    707.6
Unrecognised Loans                 233.1    233.1    234.2    235.4    236.5    237.7
Imputed Interest                    34.3      13.2      13.5      13.5      13.6      13.7
B.       391.7    533.8    602.7    704.7    827.7    959.0
Ratio without Inherited
Liabilities                        2.2       1.2       1.1       1.3       1.4       1.5
Ratio with Inherited
Liabilities                        0.7       0.6       0.7       0,8       1.0       1,1



- 97 -
ANNEX 37
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
ProjectedDisbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Per Quarter           Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year
FY82
July    - September                4.4                   4.4
October - December                 4.4                   8.8
January - March                    4.8                  13.6
April   - June                     4.8                  18.4
FY83
July    - September                4.8                  23.2
October - December                 4.8                  28.0
January - March                    4.0                  32.0
April   - June                     4.0                  36.0
FY84
July    - September                4 4                  40.0
October - December                 4.0                  44.0
January - March                    2.0                  46.0
April   - June                     2.0                  48.0
FY85
July    - September                1.0                  49.0
October - December                 1.0                  50.()



