                                                                                                 97572
Cambodia: Health Sector Support Project                                               September 24, 2010




 CAMBODIA HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

 Improving Health Services for the Poor




Overview
The Health Sector Support Project, which started in 2003, aimed to improve both the
accessibility and the quality of health services in Cambodia by rehabilitating, maintaining and
constructing civil works, providing equipment, and funding improved drug quality and
availability. Support has also been extended to the tuberculosis (TB), malaria, dengue fever
and sexually transmitted infections (STIs)/HIV/AIDS programs. In addition, the project funds the
oversight of policy, legislation and regulatory frameworks. In 2008, an estimated 2.3 million
poor people were covered by the Health Equity Fund (HEF) schemes. The project’s support for
national disease control programs contributed to reducing dengue fever outbreaks and the
fatality rate and TB and malaria infection and mortality.


Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
Some of the challenges facing Cambodia
included significant health inequities among the
socio-economic groups creating an impact
largely on maternal and child health outcomes,
considerable financial barriers to essential health
services particularly for the poor, high out-of-
pocket expenses and heavy reliance on donor
funding.


Cambodia’s health system has improved over
the past decade. There has been a reduction in
child mortality, HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria and
vaccine-preventable diseases. The overall
fertility rate has decreased substantially and life
expectancy has improved. However, Cambodia
still faces important challenges. There has been
no improvement in maternal mortality (472
deaths per 100,000 births in 2005), access to
sanitation and clean water remains inadequate,
malnutrition is extensive (37 percent of children
under five years of age are stunted), and chronic
non-communicable diseases and injuries from
road traffic accidents have increased. Significant
inequalities in access to health services still exist
between rich and poor and between urban and
rural areas and all have high out-of-pocket
expenditures. It is particularly difficult for the
remote and rural populations to access health
services.
                                                                     More Results
Approach
The International Development Association (IDA)-financed


                                                                    2.3
Health Sector Support Project supported the government’s
Health Strategic Plan 2003-2007. The project aimed to
improve the health of poor people, particularly women and

                                                                    million
children and predominantly in rural areas, through:

      the development of affordable and accessible basic
                                                                    number of poor Cambodians
      curative and preventive health services;                      covered by Health Equity Fund
                                                                    schemes
      the strengthening of institutional capacity to plan,
      manage, finance and implement health sector
      strategic policies and to manage resources effectively;
                                                                    MORE INFORMATION

      increasing the utilization of health services; and             Cambodia and the World Bank

                                                                     Health in Cambodia
      controlling and mitigating the effects of infectious
      disease epidemics and malnutrition.                            Health Sector Support Project

                                                                     Feature: Health Equity Fund
The project, which is scheduled to close in December 2010,           Brings Medical Care to the Poor
is being implemented jointly with the Asian Development              Feature: Good Health Comes to
Bank (ADB), the U.K. Department for International                    Chackrey with Smile
Development (DFID) and the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA).

Results                                                          


      In 2008, an estimated 2.3 million poor people were covered by the 50 Health Equity
      Fund (HEF) schemes. When 227,457 of them got sick during the year, they used the
      HEF schemes to pay for their health care. IDA supported 13 of the 50 schemes, and the
      others were financed by other development partners and the national budget.

      Ten remote districts contracted with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for piloting
      the innovative performance-based contracting of health services, with co-financing from
      the ADB. An independent evaluation concluded that performance contracting through
      NGOs led to significant improvements in key health service indicators.

      Three referral hospitals, a training building for the National Malaria Center, an
      information center for the national AIDS authority and 18 health centers were
      constructed and six health centers were renovated by July 2010. About 240,000 people
      will have access to the health centers.

      The project’s support for national disease control programs contributed to reducing the
      impact of disease. The incidence of malaria in high-risk areas declined from 8.6 cases
      per 1,000 people in 2002 to 3.9 cases in 2008; the cure rate for tuberculosis increased
      from 89 percent in 2003 to 92 percent in 2009; and the fatality rate from dengue fever
      declined from 2.4 to 0.7 percent between 2000 and 2008.

      Six major studies were undertaken that provided new baselines for health policy
      development: the General Population Census of Cambodia (2008), the Anthropometric
      Survey (2008), the Equity and Development Report (2007), the Health Expenditure
      Tracking Survey (2007), the Poverty Assessment (2006) and a report on the 2005
      Demographic and Health Survey.



               I am happy because I can bring my husband here for
        treatment. If I didn’t get support from the Health Equity Fund, I
        wouldn’t be able to bring him here. I hope he gets better soon.
                      — Rith Roeung, 51-year-old mother of eight, whose
                     husband was confined at the Battambang Provincial
                                                      Referral Hospital


Bank Contribution
The project was financed through a US$16 million credit from IDA; two IDA grants totaling
US$11.25 million, a US$1.84 million grant from the U.K. Department for International
Development (DFID), and US$3 million in government counterpart funding.

Partners
As the lead agency, IDA works in partnership with six development partners. DFID, the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) and UNFPA pool funds with the Bank, while the Agence Française de
Développement (AFD) and the Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC) provide parallel funds.
UNICEF and UNFPA also maintain their own discrete funds.


IDA manages US$80 million of the Multi-donor Trust Fund (MDTF) with contributions from
DFID, AusAID and IDA’s US$30 million credit. The donors work through a partnership
framework of joint annual reviews and common reporting mechanisms, and aim to align with
the government planning processes. This is the first sector-wide flagship program with 22
donors active in 122 projects in the health sector.



            I will bring my wife here again for the baby’s delivery. I rely
         100 percent on this center and I don’t want to take any risks by
                       using a traditional birth attendant.
                     — Som Vanny, 40-year-old farmer, who brought his
                     pregnant wife for ante natal care at the Battambang
                                             Provincial Referral Hospital


Moving Forward
The Second Health Sector Support Program (HSSP2), which started in January 2009 to
support the implementation of the government’s health strategic plan (2008-2015), aims to
ensure improved and equitable access to essential quality health care and preventive services
with special emphasis on women, children and the poor. The program continues to consolidate
and build on the successes of the first project and:

      supports the expansion and improvement of existing health facilities;

      finances grants at the sub-national level to leverage improved performance and service
      delivery;

      strengthens health finance management with an emphasis on the social health
      protection of the poor and the disadvantaged;

      strengthens human resources planning and management in the public health system;
      and

      improves governance and stewardship of the sector.
Internal contracting has been implemented in fifteen Special Operating Agencies (SOAs)
through sub-national grants, improving service delivery and increasing the utilization of public
health facilities. Under the program, access to health care services in remote and under-
served areas has a special focus on improving maternal and child health, which are both off-
track for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.


Under the MDTF, the program also funds technical advisory services to deepen the policy
dialogue and reforms in the areas of human resources, decentralization, health financing and
governance.



               I was so pleased when I learned the Health Equity Fund
                             would pay. We are safe.
                   — Phoung Pha, 22-year-old mother of twins, who gave
                    birth at the Battambang Provincial Referral Hospital


 
