Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19812
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CIIILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3426-CR)
December 21, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (CH$)
(1' July each year)
1991 US$ = CH$ 359.33
1992 US$ = CH$ 387.15
1993 US$ = CH$ 426.57
1994 US$ = CH$ 454.82
1995 US$ = CH$ 396.43
1996 US$ = CH$ 455.76
1997 US$ = CH$ 461.76
1998 US$ = CH$ 472.87
1999 US$ = CH$ 517.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CINTRA                Commission for Investment Planning in Transport Infrastructure
DIRECTEMAR            Maritime Directorate
DOP                   Directorate of Port Works
EMPORCHI              State Port Enterprise (Empresa Portuaria de Chile)
IFC                   International Financial Corporation
IiC                   Inter-ministerial Infrastructure Committee
TPU                   Inter-ministerial Ports Commission
IPCU                  Inter-ministerial Project Coordination Unit
MIDEPLAN              Ministry of National Planning
MINTRATEL             Ministry of Transport and Telecomunications
MINVU                 Ministry of Housing and Urbanization
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
MOP                   Ministry of Public Works
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PCU                   Project Control Unit
SAG                   Agricultural and Cattle Service (Servicio Agricola Ganadero)
SECTRA                Transport Secretariat (Secretaria de Transporte)
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Myma Alexander
Sector Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:       Rafael Garcia Alcolea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3426-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .....................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                            ii
Part I     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   StatementlEvaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Objectives.                                     3
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project.                         6
D. Project Sustainability.                                         7
E. Bank Performance.                                              7
F. Borrower Performance.                                          8
G. Assessment of Outcome .9
H. Future Operation.                                              9
I. Key Lessons Leared.                                            9
Part II    STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:               Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2:               Related Bank Loans .12
Table 3:               Project Timetable .13
Table 4:              Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .13
Table 5:              Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:              Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7:               Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A:              Project Costs .19
Table 8B:             Project Financing .19
Table 9               Economic Costs and Benefits .20
Table 10               Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table I1              Compliance with Operational Statements .23
Table 12               Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13              Bank Resources: Missions .23
APPENDIX A: Aide-Memoire for Final Supervision Mission ...................................... 24
APPENDIX B: Borrower's Final Report on the Project (Informe Final) ........................... 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



A



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3426-CH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transport Infrastructure
Project in Chile, for which loan 3426-CH in the amount of US$71 million equivalent was
approved on January 21, 1992 and made effective on April 16, 1992. The Borrower was the
Republic of Chile with the Ministry of Public Works designated as representative for the
provisions of section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement (withdrawals and Special Account) and article
V of the General Conditions.
On July 24, 1997, the balance of the loan for an amount of US$44.6 million was cancelled
nearly two years before the project closing date of June 30, 1999. The principal components of
the project were under execution at the time of cancellation and, by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower continued with its obligations regarding the execution of
the project under the Loan Agreement and the Bank continued its supervision until the original
project closing date. The last disbursement had taken place on October 31, 1996. There was no
cofinancing.
The ICR was prepared by Rafael Garcia Alcolea, Transport Specialist (LCSFP), with
assistance from Alan Harding (Consultant), and reviewed by Jeff Gutman, Transport Lead
Specialist (LCSFP), Maria Victoria Lister, Operations Officer (LCSFP), Asif Faiz, Sector Leader
(LCC7C), and Myrna Alexander, Country Director (LCC7C).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission (May 10-14,
1999). It is based on materials in the project file. The Borrower provided statistical data and
prepared a retrospective assessment of the project (Appendix B).






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3426-CH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background
i)    The Transport Infrastructure Project was the first port project of the Bank in Chile. The
project had an important physical component and also sought solutions to a number of issues in
the port subsector. The SAR anticipated the risk associated with the innovative and complex
nature of the project, and established a mechanism for inter-ministerial coordination (IPCU),
which was, however, not successful (ICR Part 1, paras. 4, 5).
ii)    There was at the time of project appraisal a high degree of urgency for the
implementation of short-term actions to increase capacity and productivity to accommodate
Chile's rapidly growing foreign trade. The urgent need for port reform, comprising the third wave
of the privatization', was also recognized in SAR. This reform took longer than expected so that
the Law on Port Modernization was passed only in December 1997 and, as a result, some project
components were to be affected by the pace of reform, remaining on stand-by until the reform
was implemented (idem, para. 2).
iii)    The positive evolution of the Chilean economy in the period 1992-97 progressively
reduced the importance of the finance available from the Bank loan, which was finally cancelled
in 1997, after three years of low disbursement. The two principal components of the project were
in execution at that time and the advice of the Bank lawyer was that the cancellation of the
outstanding loan amount did not terminate the Loan Agreement (LA). Thus the Borrower
continued with its obligations regarding the execution of the project and the Bank continued
supervision until the original project closing date (idem, paras. 11, 32).
Project Objectives
iv)    The project objectives were: (a) to rehabilitate and modernize port facilities at Valparaiso
and San Antonio and expand the facilities at San Vicente, in order to cope with forecast traffic to
the year 2000; (b) to increase efficiency in port activities; (c) to alleviate the congestion caused by
port traffic in urban areas; (d) to promote private sector participation in port development and
operations and the introduction of modern cargo-handling technologies; (e) to support the
institutional strengthening of the infrastructure sector; (f) to improve environmental conditions at
the project ports; and (g) to support transport sector efficiency through a "sectoral loan"
component (more accurately, a sub-sectoral component) (idem, paras. 6, 7).
v)    The principal obligations of the Borrower were (a) to enter into a beneficiary agreement
with EMPORCHI (the State Port Entity), under which EMPORCHI would take over and pay for a
'Peny G. and Leipziger D.M. (1999). "Chile: Recent Policy Lessons and Emerging Challenges." World
Bank Institute Development Studies.



iii
significant proportion of project costs, would meet certain financial ratios, and would adopt a new
tariff system, satisfactory to the Bank; (b) to inform the Bank and give it an opportunity to
comment before executing or authorizing port-related investment in the hinterland of the project
ports; (c) to review the MOP's annual port investment program with the Bank; (d) to carry out
action plans and programs for environmental improvements, improved road accesses, and inland
terminals; and (e) to maintain a Project Control Unit (PCU) and an Inter-ministerial Project
Coordination Unit (IPCU) (idem, para. 42).
vi)    The project's objectives represent an ambitious attempt to combine the over-due
rehabilitation and modernization of the berths at the two principal ports, with financing for a wide
range of port-related components. These objectives were defined in the overall context of support
for the Govermnent's intention to encourage multimodal transport and private investment in the
ports. At the time of Appraisal, this intention had not been elaborated as an operational policy by
Government. The justification for public investment in the ports was argued on practical
grounds. The critical capacity limitations warranted quicker actions than would have been
possible if private finance was to be arranged. The project had two parts: Part A included the
MOP's 1992-95 Port Investment Program for the three project Ports, and a program of technical
assistance and training; and Part B was intended to finance "high priority port-related
investments" such as port road accesses, multimodal inland terminals, and fishing jetties. Studies
to define the Part B subsectoral programn were included in the technical assistance component of
Part A (idem, paras. 6, 7).
Implementation Experience and Results
vii)   In spite of the partial cancellation of the loan, the project achieved what were its principal
components in terms of value and overall the assessment of project outcome is rated as
satisfactory. Rates of return for the main components were higher than estimated at Appraisal and
the financial results of the project ports were satisfactory. The principal achievement of the
project is that there are now modern terminals at the two principal general cargo ports of Chile,
Valparaiso and San Antonio. Traffic at these two ports in 1998 was 50 % higher than forecast at
Appraisal, while containerized cargo was double that forecast. Without the project contribution
there would have been serious problems in handling Chile's foreign trade. Port-related
components, especially road accesses and inland terminals, were defined and evaluated during the
project life, but concerns about technical feasibility and economic justification of the proposals,
and budgetary constraints have delayed their implementation schedule.
viii)   The port civil works component, including the rehabilitation and modernization of port
facilities at Valparaiso and San Antonio and their expansion at San Vicente (objective a), has
been successfully completed. These works represented about 64% of the estimated cost of the
project and 70% of the original loan amount. The major works at San Antonio and Valparaiso
suffered from start-up delays, with additional delays during implementation due to unexpected
sub-soil conditions. The final result was an overall delay of up to 18 months for the main
components compared with SAR schedule and a cost over-run of 30%. Works at San Vicente
were completed on time, though with some subsequent technical problems (idem, paras. 13, 14).
ix)    During project implementation, increased efficiency and a higher participation of private
initiative in port operations (objectives b and d) have enabled the supply of capacity to respond to
the demands of steadily increasing traffic. Higher efficiency was attained by the provision of new
backup areas inside the port precincts, new equipment for cargo handling by the private sector,
and from the separation of fishing and commercial activities in the ports. Two container cranes
have been purchased for San Antonio; this purchase was made by the private sector as a result of
Bank encouragement (idem, para. 15, 16).



iv
x)    The project was not successful over the project implementation period in alleviating the
congestion caused by port traffic in urban areas (objective c). The necessary studies were done,
though with some delay, and the major investments are only now beginning to be implemented,
including the South access to the port of Valparaiso. The project's contribution to the
strengthening of institutional and environmental components (objectives e and f) has been partial;
some advances have been made but less than anticipated by SAR (idem, paras. 17-19).
xi)   Expenditure on technical assistance under the project, including the supervision of
construction, increased by 50% compared to SAR, due to new engineering studies and advisory
services for supervision. Despite this increase in cost, less than 30% of the institutional and
transport studies and training components envisaged in SAR have been financed by the project,
because of the cancellation of the studies envisaged for the institutional improvement of the
infrastructure sector and the transfer of responsibility for some studies to other agencies. Some of
these cancelled studies were done later without Bank funding (idem, para. 21).
xii)   The project included a substantial training component, only 66 % of which was spent.
The training program over-estimated the capacity of the agencies involved to make use of training
resources and did not take into account resources available to these same institutions from other
sources, including the Bank (idem, para. 22).
xiii)   As of June 30, 1999, total expenditure under the project was US$157 million, very close
to SAR estimate of US$ 160 million. The actual cost of those components that were implemented
was US$146 million compared with SAR estimate of US$122 million, representing an overall
cost increase of 21%. The cost over-runs were almost all associated with civil works. Bank
financing amounted to US$26.26 million out of the original loan amount of US$71 million,
corresponding to 17% of the project total and was almost all allocated to civil works under Part
A. SAR project components amounting to 24% by value were not implemented, mainly from
Part B.   Other financing was by the Borrower (77%), most of it from internal resources of
EMPORCHI, and the private sector (6%) (idem, para. 23).
xiv)   From the beginning of the project, disbursements were behind schedule. This arose from
the imposition by the MOF of annual ceilings on disbursements in order to limit the external debt,
and the outstanding loan was finally cancelled in July 1997. The reason for choosing this project
for cancellation, amongst various Bank projects, was not stated by Government, though the
condition of being a self-financing project may have been a relevant factor, since EMPORCH
generated enough internal funds for the financing of its investment program. (paras. 11, 32).
xv)   The project had multiple components. The core elements of the civil works for port
rehabilitation and expansion in Part A were well defined and evaluated as part of the EMPORCH1
investment program. Action plans to develop programs of Part B "high priority port-related
investments" (works for road access, inland terminals and fishing ports) were to be defined and
evaluated by studies in Part A. The progress of these studies and the resulting civil works was
conditional on the definition of government port policy, the availability of resources and the
negotiation with local authorities, where it was considered that the project would have a catalytic
effect. A number of difficulties hampered the execution of Part B, including the relatively small
amount of project resources assigned to its components and the low capacity of the project
coordination unit to mobilize the agencies involved. As a result, there was no project expenditure
on Part B items and it was agreed with the Bank to transfer resources to components
complementing Part A Partial implementation of Part B components commenced after the
project was closed (idem, paras. 7, 29, 38).
xvi)  The project included components within the competence of four ministries: MOP for the
execution of port works and urban highways, MINTRATEL with SECTRA for policy aspects and



v
studies of terminals and port accesses, MINVU for other urban roads and DIRECTEMAR
(Ministry of Defense) for environmental aspects.  The IPCU was created to reflect this
complexity as an advisory body (without a budget), with the PCU as the executive unit, with its
own budget and staff. The PCU was placed within the DOP, as the major concemed agency but
this meant that the other Ministries felt that neither the PCU nor the project belonged to them.
The project coordination and control units (IPCU/PCU) functioned well for the preparation and
execution of port works and related topics, but were less successful when faced with the task of
advancing project components outside the competence of DOP, especially port accesses and
inland terminals, given the reluctance of other ministries to delegate what were their own
responsibilities (idem, paras. 9, 30, 40, 41).
xvii)  Discussion of a possible project had started as long ago as 1985, after the earthquake in
March of that year, and the Bank knew the problems of the Chilean port and related transport
sector in detail. This possibly led to an overly complex project. Bank supervision was effective
in respect of the project components that were implemented and in responding to technical
difficulties, but was less successful in achieving a fluid coordination of project components
between the two ministries principally involved (idem, paras. 3, 4, 38).
Sustainability
xviii) The concessions of terminals to the private sector at the three project ports, awarded this
year (1999), with a revised tariff for the public ports and with environmental monitoring, will
ensure the fulfillment of relevant Loan Agreement conditions and guarantee the sustainability of
the project's port component (idem, paras. 12, 47, 48).
Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
xix)   Bank performance is considered to have been satisfactory. It was correctly focussed at
Appraisal, though overly ambitious given project complexity and the different agencies involved.
Supervision contributed to the resolution of a number of technical problems during execution and
enabled the Borrower to advance rapidly in the port subsector. Supervision was unable to resolve
inter-institutional problems that arose during execution. Borrower performance is considered to
have been highly satisfactory for the implementation of port subsector components within the
competence of MOP and moderately satisfactory for components involving other agencies (idem,
paras. 36-45).
Summary of Findings
xx)   The economic results of the main components of the project were good and the financial
results were satisfactory. The case for public investment in the two principal ports of Valparaiso
and San Antonio, at a time when government policy was to encourage private investment, has
been amply justified by events, given the time that the preparation of private investment would
have taken. Recent developments in Chilean ports, including the concession to the private sector
of the terminals financed under the project, have ensured sustainability (idem, para. 24).
xxi)   The studies of road accesses seriously underestimated future demand and increased
traffic at the three project ports will require very substantial investments in improved road
accesses. In the case of Valparaiso, their cost could be as much as US$130 million. (idem, paras.
25, 41).
xxii)  The project addressed the priorities identified at the time of Appraisal but was over-
designed, with too many components included and too many agencies involved (idem, paras. 29,
30).



vi
xxiii) The principal beneficiary of the loan was MOP and the effective cooperation of other
ministries was difficult to achieve. This factor contributed to the delay or cancellation of various
project components. In particular, the sum of US$1.2 million for infrastructure studies to "review
and redefine the objectives and functions of the Government's infrastructure agencies" was not
used. The mechanism proposed in SAR was helpful in supervising projects but ultimately
ineffective in the reconciliation of differences between agencies (idem, paras. 10, 30).
Future Operation
xxiv) Future operation and maintenance of the terminals financed under the project is
guaranteed by their concession to private operators. Other project port components are unlikely to
lead on to further direct Bank support for the port subsector. Technical assistance on regulatory
issues and port-related components, especially the port accesses and the multimodal transport, has
provided an input to on-going port sector reforms and created opportunities for investment by the
public and private sectors in port-related infrastructure, including possibilities for continued Bank
Group involvement by reimbursable technical assistance or direct lending support (idem, para.
48).
Lessons Learned
xxv)  Key lessons learned from the Chile Transport hifrastructure Project are:
a) the original project was correctly identified but possibly over-designed, with
components ranging from a port-related subsectoral project to a transport infrastructure sector
project (the project's title), and optimistic, especially in setting a long and demanding schedule
of conditions to be accomplished by the Borrower in a short period of time;
b) the project was to be developed in parallel with a transition and policy discussion period
for subsector institutional reform and was intended to work as a catalyst for the decision-making
process, but the project design over-estimated the effect of one relatively small loan on the pace
of institutional change within the sector;
c) project design where two or more ministries are directly involved with different aspects
of the project requires special consideration of project ownership and control. A project
effectively controlled by one ministry cannot be expected to reorganize issues involving several
ministries. In particular, the successful execution of studies and follow-on works that involve
different ministries and agencies requires an executing unit that incorporates members from the
ministries and agencies concerned; or is located in a Government Agency with an overall
coordinating role, such as the Presidency or the Economic Ministry.
d) a port project should include policy objectives and the preparation of sectoral
components (port-related investments), but responsibility for their financing and implementation
should be assigned to the agencies concerned, making use where possible of directly related Bank
projects, in order to ensure better coordination. The project included studies of port accesses, to
be done at the same time as preparation of another Bank operation in the road sector in Chile.
Coordination of these components within the Bank could have been more effective, with the
studies of port access included in the Road Sector project.
e) the training component was large given other resources available. The preparation of
the training component required better coordination with other training programs for the agencies
involved, funded from other sources;



vii
f) the evaluation of port projects should include the cost of any necessary consequential
improvements to road and rail accesses;
g) partial loan cancellation reduces the Bank's influence. However, the continuance of
Bank supervision after loan cancellation enabled the DOP to advance its program rapidly, with
benefit for the port subsector (idem para. 49).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
LOAN 3426-CH
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1. The decade of the 80s saw many changes in Chilean public ports. In the year 1981, the laws
18.032 and 18.042 abolished the labor register, compensating those affected, and removed the
port administration EMPORCHI from ship and shore handling, giving these activities to private
sector firms under the "multi-operator" system. In March 1985 an earthquake destroyed three
berths in San Antonio and damaged others in Valparaiso. Export traffic was increasing rapidly,
and serious congestion was avoided only by the substantial increases in productivity and effective
capacity resulting from the reforms. Investment in the public ports was limited to emergency
repairs and minor works by EMPORCHI and to handling equipment purchased by the private
sector.
2. By the end of the 1980s, increasing traffic had used up the capacity created by the
productivity gains and this, with the growth of container traffic, made investment a matter of
urgency. Government policy was to encourage private investment in the port sector, though this
was hampered in the public ports by the absence of clear rules for such investment, except for
cargo-handling equipment, and in the private ports (with a few notable exceptions, especially the
Port of Lirquen in the VIII Region), by uncertainty about the basis of the tariffs to be charged by
competing public ports.
3. The Bank at that time had already had a long involvement with the Chilean transport sector,
with six previous loans and one credit for the road subsector over a period of 30 years, with a
total of US$584 million. The three most recent completed highway projects: loans 1927-CH,
2297-CH and 2589-CH, had been rated by OED as highly successful.
4. There had been no loan by the Bank to the port sector in Chile, despite on-going discussions
since the early 1980s, although some emergency works had been funded under loan 2297-CH
after the 1985 earthquake. Under the same loan, the Bank had also financed a study of cargo
terminals ("dry ports") in Santiago, to serve port traffic, but opposition from Customs and others
including SAG had prevented the implementation of the recommendations of the study. Terms of
reference had been prepared for a traffic study of Greater Valparaiso, but the authorities
concerned were unable to agree on its implementation and the proposed study was not done at
that time. Two IFC projects for port investment had also been approved within the hinterlands of
project ports.
5. With the new administration that took office in 1990, it was agreed that a project should be
prepared to address issues in the port subsector and port-related items, including port and terminal
accesses, multi-modal terminals and non-industrial fishing activities. Responsibility for transport
infrastructure planning was divided between two ministries (plus a number of agencies), linked
by three inter-ministerial committees, and the need was seen also for improvement in the
institutional arrangements for transport infrastructure planning and investment.



2
6. The objectives of the project were agreed as (a) to rehabilitate and modernize port facilities at
Valparaiso and San Antonio and expand the facilities at San Vicente, in order to cope with
forecast traffic to the year 2000; (b) to increase efficiency in port activities; (c) to alleviate the
congestion caused by port traffic in urban areas; (d) to promote private sector participation in port
development and operations and the introduction of modern cargo-handling technologies; (e) to
support the institutional strengthening of the infrastructure sector; (f) to improve environmental
conditions at the project ports; and (g) to support transport sector efficiency through what SAR
calls a "sectoral loan" component2. Together the objectives represented an ambitious attempt to
combine the over-due rehabilitation and modernization of the berths at the two principal project
ports (Valparaiso and San Antonio), with expansion at a third (San Vicente), plus financing for a
wide range of associated components.
7. The project had two parts: Part A, based on the MOP's 1992-95 Port Investment Program for
the three project ports (comprising civil works for which preliminary studies already existed),
complemented by private sector investments in port equipment and by extensive technical
assistance and training programs; and Part B, to include high-priority port-related investments
already identified by MOP (construction of road port access, construction of inland terminals, and
construction of small fishing ports), but requiring preparatory technical and economic studies.
Part B represented only 14% of estimated project cost About 90% of total estimated project cost
was made. up of civil works and equipment at the three project ports, with about 20% to be
provided by private sector financing. The private finance included the construction of inland
terminals and the purchase of cargo-handling and environmental monitoring equipment.
8. The civil works at the three ports were considered important to support the growth in Chile's
exports. The Government's policy was to encourage private investment in ports and SAR was
concerned with two aspects of the planned investments under the project: first the need for public
investment as envisaged in the project and secondly, the risk to that investment should there be
subsequent private investment. The case for public investment in the ports at that time was
argued on practical grounds (paras. 1.25 and 2.04 in SAR) and covenants were included requiring
Government consultation with the Bank in the event of the proposal of any major private
investment. In the context of the very rapid growth of exports at that time, the uncertainty of the
amount and timing of private investment and the absence of clear Government guidelines which
would provide a level playing field, the decision at that time to involve public investment, is
considered now to have been fully justified.
9. Other objectives included improvements to port accesses (objective c) and the construction of
multi-modal transport inland terminals (objective g). These involved different ministries and
other agencies, especially Customs and SAG. The potential difficulty in implementing these
components within the context of a loan, whose execution was seen to be the responsibility of
MOP, was recognized in SAR which proposed an IPCU (para. 3.04 in SAR). Such coordination
represented a demanding requirement in institutional terms and it is doubtful if the mechanism
proposed was convincing, even at the time of project approval. Supervision missions made
efforts to involve the other ministries more closely with the project, though with little success.
10. The objective (e): "to support the institutional strengthening of the infrastructure sector"
reflected a perceived need for the clarification of inter-ministerial responsibilities for transport
infrastructure which had been identified during project preparation and the sum of US$1.2 million
was included for studies for "the institutional improvement of the infrastructure sector". These
studies were to review and redefine the objectives and functions of the Govermment's
2 More accurately, a sub-sectoral component. This was intended to finance the actions
recommended by the studies to be done under the project.



3
infrastructure agencies, where the Bank's presence was expected to have a "catalytic effect" in
precipitating policy decisions (paras. 1.12 and 2.04 in SAR). This was a complex and ambitious
objective, involving decisions by three ministers, where the vision of the Bank may have been in
advance of the will for action of Government.
B    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11. The positive evolution of the Chilean economy in the period 1992-97 progressively reduced
the importance of the finance available from the Bank loan, which was finally cancelled in 1997,
after three years of low disbursement. The two principal components of the project were in
execution at that time and the advice of the Bank lawyer was that the cancellation of the
outstanding loan amount did not terminate the Loan Agreement (LA). Thus the Borrower
continued with its obligations regarding the execution of the project and the Bank continued
supervision until the original project closing date.
12. The principal achievement of the project is that there are now modem terminals at the two
principal general cargo ports of Chile. Without the project contribution there would have been
serious problems in handling Chile's foreign trade. Other project objectives were only partially
achieved. Components related to studies of road accesses and inland terminals were done outside
the project and have suffered substantial delays. However, Law 19.542 "modernizing the state-
owned ports" resulted in the granting of the concession of terminals at the three project ports to
the private sector, to be in operation at the beginning of year 2000. A revised tariff for the public
ports and improved environmental monitoring will be introduced. These changes and the
concessions will ensure the fulfillment of relevant LA conditions and guarantee the sustainability
of the project's port component.
13. The principal component of the project's physical objective, civil works to rehabilitate and
modernize port facilities at Valparaiso and San Antonio (objective a), which represents about
84% of actual project costs (64% in the SAR estimate), has been successfully completed. There
has been a cost over-run for the civil works of approximately 30%/o, due mainly to engineering
problems. The major works at San Antonio and Valparaiso suffered from start-up delays, with
additional delays during implementation, resulting in an overall slippage of 18 months for the
principal components, compared with SAR schedule. Difficulties with pilings were encountered
at both ports, due to unexpected sub-soil conditions, and at San Antonio the sea reclamation
works have proven more difficult than expected.
14. At San Vicente greater than expected subsidence in a newly constructed rock mound was
experienced, threatening the stability of new piling. Remedial works were required and the cost
of this component increased from US$8.6 million to US$12.3 million. The additional capacity
provided by this berth permitted a significant improvement in ship-turn-around time at the port,
with a consequent reduction in waiting times. The contract for the original works included a
premium for early completion, which may have exacerbated the technical problem.
15. During project implementation, the increase of efficiency in port operations related to
objectives (b) and (d), has enabled the supply of capacity to respond to the demands of steadily
increasing traffic. Higher efficiency was attained from the provision of new backup areas inside
the port precincts, new equipment for cargo handling, and from the separation of fishing and
commercial activities. Two container gantry-cranes have been purchased for San Antonio by the
private sector in accordance with the project. Nevertheless, in Valparaiso the first bidding for
cranes was declared void and then postponed until the concession of the container terminal.
Meanwhile, a private operator has been operating a multi-purpose crane at the terminal.



4
16. The project carried out the required study of port tariffs, which was needed for increased
efficiency and to provide a level playing field for private initiative in port operation. The main
objective of this study was to propose and design a new system that would better reflect service
costs and that would allow each port to be self-financing. The recommendations of the study have
been taken into account in the terminal concession bidding documents.
17. Implementation of subsector objectives (c), to alleviate road congestion by the improvement
of port accesses, and (d), to promote private sector participation by multi-modal terminal
construction, has been less successful than civil works within the ports' precincts. Responsibility
for road access studies was assigned to SECTRA. The IPCU and the Bank were informed of their
progress on a regular basis, though the studies suffered substantial delays and severely
underestimated the growth in port traffic, so that the corresponding works are only being started
now at Valparaiso and are incomplete at San Antonio3.
18. Institutional development under the project (objective e) has been minimal. The resources
(US$1.2 million) allocated for institutional studies, "to review and redefine the objectives and
functions of the Government's infrastructure agencies", were not used and the institutional
strengthening of the infrastructure sector has not been achieved. During the period of the project,
the decision was taken to liquidate EMPORCH1 and to transform the public ports into
autonomous state enterprises, on the basis of Law 19.542. This major institutional decision has
delayed the implementation of the new tariff for public ports, required under the project, which
will now be introduced when the new concessions are in operation at the beginning of year 2000.
19. The project's environmental objective (objective f) has been partially achieved. Studies to
define an action program in Chilean ports were done as required under the project, with some
delay, but not implemented, partly because the DOP was not the appropriate agency and partly on
account of a lack of definition about responsibility for purchase of the necessary equipment.
Responsibility for implementing the recommendations of the environmental studies lies with
DIRECTEMAR (Ministry of Defense Directorate in charge of maritime environmental issues)
and the appropriate clauses are now included in the concession contracts for the port terminals.
20. Within the project, studies were done to define the most effective administration for small-
scale fishing installations and how best to separate such activities from commercial shipping.
Study recommendations for the improved segregation of fishing activities have been implemented
at the ports of San Antonio and Valparaiso, providing better conditions for both fishing and
commercial activities, whilst implementation at Talcahuano/San Vicente port awaits the
definition of a new port layout, to be agreed among interested parties. A program has been
implemented under the project by DOP for the development and improvement of small-scale
fishing ports ("caletas pesqueras"), supported by decree 161 (Secretariat of the Navy, September
1997). This decree modifies the regulations for maritime concessions, permitting the transfer of
improved fishing facilities to formally recognized local fishing associations. A further study
recommendation, for the self-financing of the maintenance of fishing installations, was also
included in the decree.
21. Most of the studies envisaged in the SAR have been done, though in a number of cases
without Bank financing. Responsibility for the studies of the Libertador/Los Andes terminal and
of the Macrozona Central, were assigned to the Planning Directorate of MOP; studies of Port
Accesses to SECTRA; and studies of multi-modal inland terminals to EMPORCHI. Some
studies were cancelled, notably the study envisaged for the institutional improvement of the
3 The Third Road Sector Project (Ln 3833-CH) finances the MOP 1995-2001 road program, but the theme
of port accesses is not explicitly addressed.



5
infrastructure sector.  Nevertheless, expenditure on technical assistance under the project,
including the supervision of construction, increased by 50% compared to SAR. This increase
arose from the implementation of an expanded program of engineering studies required to solve
specific technical problems and to prepare future port investment programs. Advisory services
required for the administration of construction, as required by Chilean regulations, also cost more
than expected.
22. Only 66% of the training budget included in SAR was spent. The SAR had not integrated the
training program prepared in the project with the training program of MOP, which was being
financed in part with another Bank loan (Ln. 3833-CH). The failure to take up the training
resources of the project by other institutions, including EMPORCHI, also reflects the availability
of funds from other sources and the capacity of the institutions to absorb training.
23. As of June 30, 1999, total project cost was US$157 million, close to SAR estimate of US$160
million. However, of SAR project components, 24% by value were not implemented and the
total figure includes US$11 million for expenditure on project components that had not been
individually identified in SAR. The actual cost of those original components that were
implemented was US$146 million compared with SAR estimate of US$122 million. Actions not
included in SAR are mainly for complementary Part A components in substitution of Part B. The
project did not manage to implement any of the works envisaged for Part B, even when the
preparatory studies had been completed, because of technical doubts about the solutions proposed
and difficulties of coordination involving various agencies. Subsequently some of the works
envisaged for Part B are now being implemented. Bank financing amounted to US$26.26 million
out of the original loan amount of US$71 million, corresponding to 17% of the project total.
24. Economic Evaluation. Traffic at Valparaiso and San Antonio in 1998 was overall about 50%
higher than forecast at Appraisal, while containerized cargo was nearly double the forecast level.
Without the works financed under the project there would have been serious problems in handling
Chile's foreign trade. Traffic in the port system of the VIII Region, which includes San Vicente,
was substantially more than the forecast in 1995 and 1996 but since then has declined on account
of market conditions and competition from other port installations. For the works at Valparaiso
and San Antonio, a recalculation of the ERR with updated traffic figures, costs and timing, gives
a revised figure conservatively estimated at 60% (NPV at 12% = US$542 million), compared
with the SAR estimate of 46% (NPV at 12% = US$310 million). For San Vicente, where SAR
estimated an ERR of 71% (NPV at 12% = US$80 million), the actual outcome is estimated to be
24% (NPV at 12% = US$5 million), again based on actual times, costs and traffics. The high
value of NPV for the ports of the Region V shows their strategic importance for the foreign trade
of Chile.
25. The methodology used for the calculation of the ERR at appraisal followed the usual Bank
procedure and did not include the cost of improved port accesses. The studies of road accesses
seriously underestimated future demand. However delay in the execution of these studies
reduced the possibility of Bank intervention. Now the increased traffic at the three project ports
will require very substantial investments in improved road accesses. Current estimates for the
South accesses to Valparaiso indicate a cost of US$130 million for the connection of the port area
with Ruta 68 via the Camino de la P6lvora, though not all of this cost would be attributable to the
port's needs. SECTRA has commissioned a study of port externalities, which may be taken into
account in future evaluations of port proposals4.
4SECTRA: An;lisis y Desarrollo de Metodologia de Evaluaci6n de Proyectos de Infraestructura Portuaria
II Etapa: Cuantificaci6n de Externalidades, CITRA, 1997.



6
26. The success of the physical components has been affected positively for Valparaiso and San
Antonio by the greater than expected growth in Chile's foreign trade and negatively for San
Vicente by the economic downturn in Asia, which affected exports of forestry products after
1997. The acceptable ERR for San Vicente is due to the capacity contributed by the new berth
during the peak years of between 1993 and 1995, despite some technical problems.
27. The success and indeed the implementation of the subsector components, especially those
related to terminals and accesses, has been negatively affected by the reluctance of ministries and
agencies other than MOP to subrogate their responsibilities for some project components to what
was seen as a MOP project. These difficulties might well have been anticipated at appraisal. In
the view of the ICR, once the project had started, there was probably no remedy for these
difficulties.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28. Majors factors affecting the project were the prolonged port reform debate, the project over-
design at Appraisal, the difficulties encountered in project coordination, the technical problems
leading to cost over-runs and delays, and the Government's unwillingness to use the funds and,
finally, the cancellation of the loan. Legal and political discussions on port reform took
significantly longer than expected, in order to resolve issues of personnel compensation and to
reach consensus on the most appropriate model for private sector involvement. The Law on Port
Modernization was passed only in December 1997 and, as a result, some project components
were to be affected by the pace of reform, remaining on stand-by until the reform was
implemented.
29. The project included as well as civil works at the three project ports, no fewer than eighteen
studies under the technical assistance component, and a substantial training component. The
studies in SAR included US$1.2 million for the institutional reorganization of the infrastructure
sector and a number of studies expected to lead on to the Part B components. A number of
difficulties hampered the execution of Part B, including technical and economic doubts about the
solutions proposed and the low capacity of the project coordination unit to mobilize the agencies
involved. The Bank initially suggested cancellation of that part of the loan but it was
subsequently agreed with the Borrower in 1994 to utilize Part B funds for activities
complementary to Part A components, including civil works, engineering studies and port planing
studies. As a result, there was no project expenditure on Part B items.
30. The project included components within the competence of three ministries: MOP for the
execution of port works and of urban highways, MINTRATEL with SECTRA for policy and
planning aspects of terminals and port accesses and MINVU for other urban roads, together with
various agencies of which the most important were Customs, SAG, and DIRECTEMAR. The
IPCU was created to overcome this complexity as an advisory body (without a budget), with the
PCU as the executive unit, with its own budget and staff. The PCU was placed within the DOP,
since port investment components formed the largest part of expected project expenditure, but
this meant that the other Ministries felt that neither the PCU nor the project belonged to them.
The project coordination and control units (IPCU/PCU) functioned well for the preparation and
execution of port works and related topics, but were less successful when faced with the task of
advancing project components outside the competence of DOP, especially port accesses and
inland terminals.
31. The cost over-runs in civil works, representing an overall cost increase of 30%, were
attributed principally to unexpected subsoil conditions. Delays in the implementation of physical



7
elements were due to delays in contracting procedures on the part of the Borrower and the
technical difficulties mentioned above. Delays in the realization of studies were due principally
to the need to get agreement on terms of reference, short lists and evaluations with the IPCU,
which represented a number of different institutions.
32. From the beginning of the project, withdrawals from the loan were behind schedule, and local
financing was increasingly used. EMPORCHI was generating enough internal funds for the
financing of its investment program, and Chile's fiscal balance was positive. The MOF was
imposing annual ceilings on withdrawals in order to limit the external debt, and the outstanding
balance was finally cancelled in July 1997. The Bank's leverage was reduced as a result.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33. The sustainability of those improvements in port efficiency which depend on the physical
component of the project will be assured by the concessions to be granted by Government to
private operators, provided appropriate performance indicators, including environmental
monitoring, are incorporated in the concession contracts.
34. The position with respect to improved road accesses is less clear. As noted above (para. 17),
the necessary studies were late and only now are the works being started in the project ports.
Present budget restrictions in Chile are likely to further delay their implementation.
35. Progress on inland terminals including Customs facilities and multi-modal corridors to the
ports is slow but positive, as shown by recent steps by Customs to provide a wider range of
alternatives to the shipper. A terminal is to be constructed at Los Andes, as envisaged in the
project, though details are not available to judge to what extent it will meet international criteria
for such terminals.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36. Bank performance is considered to have been satisfactory. It was correctly focussed at
Appraisal, though overly ambitious given project complexity and the different agencies involved.
Supervision contributed to the resolution of a number of technical problems during execution and
enabled the Borrower to advance rapidly in the port subsector. Supervision was unable to resolve
inter-institutional problems that arose during execution.
37. This was to be the first operation in the port and related activities subsector and there was a
desire, reflected in the SAR, to advance with the greatest possible speed and on a broad front with
all the aspects necessary for the complete modernization of Chile's port sector and related
activities. The Bank at appraisal recognized the complexity of the institutional arrangements for
transport infrastructure planning on the Government side, with an analysis of the situation (paras.
1.12 and chart 4 in SAR) and proposed what in its view would be an adequate mechanism within
the project for achieving its objectives, including institutional objectives (paras. 3.03 and 3.04 in
SAR). Both the project content and the project implementation aspects may be said, with
hindsight, to show a certain optimism.
38. Bank supervision of the project contributed to the successful implementation of the physical
components through technical advice given at critical moments. Bank missions recorded efforts
to improve the integration of other ministries, especially the Ministry of Transport and
Telecommunications, in the implementation of the project, though with limited results. In 1994,
the Bank suggested cancellation of Part B components on the basis of the recorded and
anticipated disbursements, but the Borrower requested retaining items in the project, to permit



8
international procurement of services. Procurement procedures had been agreed with the PCU at
an early stage and no difficulties were encountered during the implementation of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39. Borrower performance is considered to have been highly satisfactory for the implementation
of port subsector components within the competence of MOP and moderately satisfactory for
components involving other agencies.
40. The responsible ministry designated by the Government was the Ministry of Public Works,
which was the principal collaborator with Bank preparatory missions. The other ministries and
agencies concemed with aspects of project implementation were consulted, as can be seen from
the Aide-Memoire of the preparatory missions. What is not clear is the extent to which these
other ministries and agencies were in agreement with those aspects of the project affecting their
responsibilities.
41. Implementation by the PCU of those components within the control of MOP was good and
continuing efforts were made in respect of components where other ministries or agencies were
ultimately responsible, though without very much success. The project was seen by these other
bodies to be an MOP project. Already by July 1992, the Bank was informed of the exclusion of
the financing of the access studies and the transfer of the studies to SECTRA, which informed the
Bank that possibly final engineering and the financing of construction could be included in the
project, once the studies had been completed. Now the increased traffic at two of the three
project ports will require very substantial investments in improved road accesses.
42. The principal obligations of the Borrower as described in the Loan Agreement were: (i) to
enter into a beneficiary agreement with EMPORCHI (the State Port Entity), under which
EMPORCHI would take over and pay for the completed project works (para. 3.01 (c)), would
meet certain financial ratios (Schedule 7, para. 7 (a) and 8 (a)) and would adopt a new tariff
system, satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 5, para. 5); (ii) to inform the Bank and give it an
opportunity to comment before executing or authorizing any port-related investment in the
hinterland of the project ports (para. 3.03) and to review the MOP's annual port investment
program with the Bank; (iii) to carry out action plans and programs as specified in the Loan
Agreement (for environmental improvements, improved road accesses and inland terminals); and
(iv) to maintain a Project Control Unit (PCU) and an Inter-ministerial Project Coordination Unit
(IPCU). The compliance with the conditions is shown in Table 10.
43. The financial ratios referred to in the preceding paragraph 42 (i) above were that:
- [7(a)]: "funds from internal resources equivalent to not less than 48% of the annual average of
EMPORCHI's project expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year and the
next following fiscal year, and
- [8(a)]: "for each of its fiscal years, the ratio of total working expenses to total operating
revenues (be) not higher than 46%".
These ratios were given consistent attention by EMPORCHI and the Bank. The figures show that
the internal generation of funds [7(a)] has provided sufficient financing for the investment
programs of EMPORCHI, including the project, with the exception of 1995 which was a year of
peak expenditure. However the goal set for port management and financial efficiency [8(a)] was
not attained, except for the year 1993. During the project implementation period 1991-1997, the
financial performance of EMPORCFH was affected positively by a higher than forecast traffic



9
increase, and negatively by a freezing of port tariffs, expressed in US$, and by a higher than
forecast increase in working costs (local costs in pesos). For most of this period, Chile
maintained an undervalued real exchange rate, resulting in a deterioration of EMPORCHI's
revenues in pesos (annual real increase 1990-1997 of 1.4% compared to the 3.7% forecast).
44. The new port authorities are deeply involved in the restructuring process which should
improve the efficiency indicators, and the recommendations of the tariff study financed under the
project (para. 16 above) are to be implemented once the concessions are in place. Other covenants
were complied with, except for the covenant concerning implementation of studies, on account of
cancellation and delay.
45. The Government was increasingly reluctant to request disbursements under the project and
the Loan was finally cancelled in July 1997. Already in July 1992, the Government had informed
the Bank that "for the time being", it would not request retroactive financing of the new berth in
San Vicente and Baron Pier in Valparaiso, both works whose financing was included in the
project. The Bank mission commented that it would be difficult to consider any future request
for the financing of these items, as 90 days had already passed since loan effectiveness.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46. In spite of the partial cancellation of the loan, the project achieved what were its principal
components in terms of value and overall the assessment of project outcome is rated as
satisfactory. The principal achievement of the project is that there are now modern container
terminals at the two principal general cargo ports of Chile. Without these terminals the export
growth experienced by Chile could not have been handled. At the time of project preparation,
Government had already evaluated that alternative private financing would take longer than
execution by MOP. This view was probably correct given the early stage of preparation of any
alternative private projects and the absence of clear guidelines for private/public port competition.
These components represented 67% of the total original cost of the project (96% of the total fnal
cost) and on this basis, the project outcome is assessed as satisfactory.
47. The concession of the port components to the private sector with the introduction of a revised
tariff for the public ports and the provision of environmental monitoring equipment represent
important achievements for the port subsector, to which the project made a substantial
contribution
H. FUTURE OPERATION
48. Future operation and maintenance of the three works financed under the project is
guaranteed by the concession to private operators, in 1999, of terminals in each of the three
project ports. Other project port components are unlikely to lead on to further direct Bank
support for the port subsector. Technical assistance on regulatory issues and port-related
components, especially the port accesses and the multimodal transport, has provided an input to
on-going port sector reforms and created opportunities for investment by the public and private
sectors in port-related infrastructure, including possibilities for continued Bank Group
involvement by reimbursable technical assistance or direct lending support.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49. Key lessons learned from the Chile Transport Infrastructure Project are:
a) the original project was correctly identified but possibly over-designed, with



10
components ranging from a port-related subsectoral project to a transport infrastructure sector
project (the project's title), and optimistic, especially in setting a long and demanding schedule
of conditions to be accomplished by the Borrower in a short period of time;
b) the project was to be developed in parallel with a transition and policy discussion period
for subsector institutional reform and was intended to work as a catalyst for the decision-making
process, but the project design over-estimated the effect of one relatively small loan on the pace
of institutional change within the sector;
c) project design where two or more ministries are directly involved with different aspects
of the project requires special consideration of project ownership and control. A project
effectively controlled by one ministry cannot be expected to reorganize issues involving several
ministries. In particular, the successful execution of studies and follow-on works that involve
different ministries and agencies requires an executing unit that incorporates members from the
ministries and agencies concerned; or is located in a Government Agency with an overall
coordinating role, such as the Presidency or the Economic Ministry.
d) a port project should include policy objectives and the preparation of sectoral
components (port-related investments), but responsibility for their financing and implementation
should be assigned to the agencies concerned, making use where possible of directly related Bank
projects, in order to ensure better coordination. The project included studies of port accesses, to
be done at the same time as preparation of another Bank operation in the road sector in Chile.
Coordination of these components within the Bank could have been more effective, with the
studies of port access included in the Road Sector project.
e) the training component was large given other resources available. The preparation of
the training component required better coordination with other training programs for the agencies
involved, funded from other sources;
f) the evaluation of port projects should include the cost of any necessary consequential
improvements to road and rail accesses;
g) partial loan cancellation reduces the Bank's influence. However, the continuance of
Bank supervision after loan cancellation enabled the DOP to advance its program rapidly, with
benefit for the port subsector



11
PART IlL STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of objectives       Substantial      Partial    Neeligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             x
Sector policies                                     x
Financial objectives                                x
Institutional development                           x
Physical objectives                   x
Poverty reduction                                                                  x
Gender Issues                                                                      x
Other social objectives                                                            I
Environmental objectives                            x
Public sector management                            x
Private sector development            x
B. Project sustainability              Likely      Unlikelv      Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance                 Haighly       Satisfactory   Moderately    Unsatisfactory
________________________  StisactrySatisfactory        Satisfactory    Ustsatr
Identification                                       x
Preparation assistance                               x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                     | _           |      x
D. Borrower Performance               Highly                     Moderately
Satisfctory Satisfactor     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory
Preparation                                         x
Implementation                                      x
Covenant compliance                                 x
E. Assessment of outcome              Highly      Satisfactory   Moderately    Unsatisfactor
_       Satisfactory         Satisfactory 
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/ Credit Title                                                 Purpose                                     Year of   Amount          Status
Loan/_______________________________ Credit_____________Title__________Purpose___                             approval  US$ M.
Preceding Operations                                                                                                             PP                .
1. Several Projects: 287-CH; 4-CH (credit); 558-CH; and 688- Construction and reconstruction of roads devastated by natural disasters, as well as the    1961-1974  49    Closed
CH                                                  introduction of an effective maintenance program                                                  1966-78
2. 1927-CH: First Highway Reconstruction Project    Reconstruction of 250 Km of Route 5; technical assistance for maintenance, training, and    1980  42    Closed
prefeasibility studies for priority transport investments; and equipment purchase                1986
3. 2297-CH: Second Highway Reconstruction Project   Assist in the reorganization of the transport administration begun by the Government in  1983  128    Closed
1975: strengthening MOPs physical and institutional capacity to upgrade the national             1990
roads system and to improve maintenance; and helping MTT to tackle overall sector and
intermodal transnort issues
4. Two Emergency Projects                           Reconstruction of roads damaged by the 1984 flood; and repair and reconstruction  1984-1985  18    Closed
programs for the infrastructure damaged/destroyed in 1985's earhtquake (port                     1989
comoonents included) 
5. 2589-CH: First Road Sector Project               Help finance MOP's three-year 1986-1988 Road Investment and Maintenance Program  1985     140    Closed
(USS 565 million); and assist in the execution of its roads reconstruction and                   1990
rehabilitation program, and with the setting of an efficient road maintenance organization
6. 3120-CH: Second Road Sector Project              Continue to improve the execution of MOP's road investment and maintenance programs,    1989  180    Closed
as well as to establish and efficient road maintenance and pavement management                   1994
organization
Fofowing Operations
1. 3833-CH: Third Road Sector Project               a) consolidate the road maintenance and pavement programs under previous projects; b)  1994  120    In execution.
support the privatization process in the road sector through (i) the use of "global"             Extension of
maintenance contracts, and (ii) the promotion of BOT schemes for private sector                  closing date from
financing of roads; c) improve road traffic safety in the national network, and d)               June 1999 to June
strengthen MOP institutional capacity to carry out Project objectives                            2001



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date
End Identification           July 30, 1990
Begin Preparation            March 11, 1991
Begin Appraisal              June 24, 1991
Begin Negotiations            October 21, 1991
SAR                          November21, 1991
Board Presentation           December 17, 1991
Signing                      January 21, 1992
Effectiveness                 April 16, 1992
Loan Cancellation             July 24, 1997
Proect Completion (SAR)       December 31, 1998
Loan Closing (SAR)           IJune 30, 1999
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ Millions)
FY                 1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997       1998      1999
Appraisal Estimate              13.4      32.4      44.4     54.4      63.4      68.4       70.4      71.0
Actual *                        6.0       14.3      15.8     26.0      26.3      26.3       26.3  r  26.3
Actual as % of Estiznate       44.8%     44.1%     35|6%    47.8%     41.5%      38.5%     37.4%     37.0%
Date of Final Disbursement_                                           Dec. 96               -__
* The loan was cancelled on July 1997.



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implemention
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR
PART A                                                 Estimate                              Actual
1. Civil Works
San Vicente Port
Port Expansion: Contruction of Berth I         L= 161m; B=23.50 m         L= 161m; B=23.50 m
Paving: 6,770 m2           Paving: 4.170 m2
Strengtherning & Improvement of Berth 1        Strengthening: 65 t of steel    Strengthening: 75.8 t of steel
Paving: 2.592m2           Paving: In execution
San Antonio Port
Construction of Berths 3,2, &I South            L= 565 m; B=24.40 m Paving: L=565 m.; B=24.40 m
51,765 m2                 Paving: 51,752 m2
Construction of Molito Fishing Pier            L= 75 m               (Pier: L= 55.50 m
50x12; Access: 25x4)      (Pier: 40x12; Access: 15.50x4)
Dredging the Main Basin                        V  950,000m3               V = 1,055,607 m3
Construction of a truck parking, building rehabilitation,  Paving: 17,280 m2  Paving: 16,848 m2
and construction of an inspection&control place  Building Rehab.: 328 m2  Building Rehab.: 310 m2
Building Constr: 210 m2   Construction: 210 m2
Reclamation of an area behind the breakwater for a new   Yard: 46,200 m2  Yard: 28,244 m2
container yard                                                            Access: 3,783 m2
Valparaiso Port
Rehabilitation of Baron Pier                   L = 220 m                  L = 220 m
Surface Area: 2,060 m2     Surface Area: 2,060 m2
Dredging: 26,760 m3       Dredging: 26,760 m3
Rehabilitation of Sheds A & B, and Demolition of Sheds Rehabilitation: 5,400 m2  Rehabilitation: 5,366 m2
in Berth 2                                     Demolition: 3,250 m2       Demolition: 3,250 m2
Construction of buildings for the Port Technical  Construction: 4,853 m2  Construction: 4,853 m2
Department, and for the container terminal entrance
Paving of yard areas; demolition of buildings; and  Paving: 60,006 m2     Paving: 77,991m2
construction of three electric substations     Demolition: 68,692 m2      Demolition: 68,692 m2
Construction of Berths 3,2,&1;             and L = 625 m                  L = 621 m
construction of the container terminal entrance  Paving: 20,920 m2        Paving: 20,013 m2
Dredging: 42,500 m3       Dredging: 36,553 m3
Entrance was not built under the Project
Dredging of Berths 9 & 10 in Baron Pier        Berth 9: -10 m (56,040 m3)    Berth 9: -10 m (40,500 m3)
Berth 10: - 9 m (N/A)      Berth 10: not dredged
Paving of a truck parking lot in Baron Pier area  Paving: 10,800 m2       Paving: 10,800 m2
Increase Yard Capacity in Espigon & Baron Pier areas   Paving: 13,800 m2  Paving: 23,485 m2
2. Equipment
Container cranes (private investmnent)         2 container cranes in San  2 gantry-cranes in San Antonio
Antonio and 2 in Valparaiso
Environmental monitoring and control (public/private    Not especified in SAR  Environmental monitoring equipmnent was not adquired
investmnent)__                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Other equipment                                Not included in SAR        Installation of TV closed circuit and optic fiber in San
Antonio



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implemention (cont.)
Key lmplementation Indicators in SAR
PART A (cont.)                                        Included in S.A.R.                           Comments
3. Technical Assistance
3.1. Supervision & Advising superv./                            YES              Completed. Engineering studies supported detigns and
IEngineering Studies & Designs                                                   solutions to implementation technical problems
3.2. Transport & Institutional Studies
New Port Tariff System                                          YES              Completed
Port and Inland Terminal Access Facilities                      YES              Several studies completed by SECTRA and Direccion de
Vialidad (MOP). Not financed by the Loan
Puerto Montt Ferry Terminal                                     YES              Canoelled
Wand Multimodal Ternminals                                      YES              Cancelled
Institutional Reorganization of the Infrastruoture Sector       YES              Cancelled
Institutional Organization of the small-scale fishing ector     YES              Completed
Integral Study on Fishing Facilities in the 5th Region          YES              Completed
finastructure Development in the Macrocentral Region            YES              Completed
Libertador/ Los Andes Corridor                                  YES              Cancelled
Environmental Regulations in Chilean Ports                      YES              Completed
Environmental monitoring of Berths 2 & 1 in San Antonio         YES              Completed (port component)
Port
Replacement of DOP's Dredger                                     NO              Completed
Pre-feasibility of an industrial fishing port in Taloahuano     NO               Completed
Improvements of River Mouths                                    NO               Completed
Updating International Port and Shipping Technology, and        NO               Completed for the preparation of a Seminar on the matter
its Relevance to Chile
Master Plan of San Antonio Port                                 NO               Completed (port oomponent)
TOR for the Master Plan of Valparaiso Port                      NO               Completed (port oomponent)
3.3. Project Monitoring                                         YES              Completed
4. Training                                                     YES              106 Profesionals of DOP and EMPORCH  have
participated in 25 courses, seminars and international
conferences (USS332 Tn vs US$726 T. in SAR)
Part B                                                          YES              By agreement between the Chilean govemment and the
.righ-Priorit Complementary.Port-                                     Bank, Part B was replaced, in 1996, by a series of studies
equipment and civil works components complementing
related Investments           Secotoral program                                  Part A actions. The new components were included in
including the construction of: (a) inland terminals; (b) port                    Project Part A
and inland terminal access facilities; and (c) small-scale
fishing ports



16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
a) Cargo movements ('000 ton)
Total Traffic            Container traffic
Estimate      Actual   i Estimate         Actal
livaLaraiso          199                    3,501           -_          1,388
1995    3,291         4,622          1,467        2,480 
1998    3,686         4,620         1,820         2,720
kgSan Antonio         1990       -           2,133           -           233
1995    3,969         5,637         1,467         2,517
0  1998    4,597   1   7,359        1,820-        3,947
j0San Vicente         199        -           2,688                         0
1995     N/A          3,719          N/A            183
1998     N/A          2,409            IA           05
Total Emporchi       199        -          13,639                       2,153
1995    16,965        21,376         N/A          6,990
1998    18,355        21,013           /,332
b) Shiptumn around time (hrs/ship)
I,Port                    I         Estimate                     Actual
VVal araiso           199                                         40.0
1996            N/A                         38.3
1998            N/A                         31.0
San Antonio           199                                         52.9
1996            N/A                         31.2
1998            N/A                         37.6
iSa Mcente           199j                                        104.2
1996            N/A                         78,1
1998            N/A                         49.5
E) rEnorchi's financial indicators ( %)
i dicators (1)                        7(a)                        8(a)
Refe rence year 1990                   -                          34
Objectives 1992-1998                  > 48                        <46
1992             167 99
19931            126                         42
19941            91                          49
19959            28                          47
1996             240                         53
1997             596                         51
rSaa vj ette      1998 (2)            1246                         44
San Antoanio     1998(2)              512                          28
Vaiparaiso        1998 (2)1            72            j             57            I
(1) Finanicial indicators of Ernporchi:see Loan Agreement, Schedule 7,7 (a) and 8 (a)
Indicator 7 (a): Funds from internal sources/Annual average of Project's expenditures.
Indicator 8 (a): Working ratio = Total working expenses/total operating revenues.
(2) In 1998, Project's financial responsibility was transferred to the new port authorities.



17
Table 7: Studies included in Project
Study                                     Purpose as defined at appraisatiredeflined           I|  a act of stud
A. Egirme ing Studies & Designs
A. 1. Puerto San Vicente
Geotechnical Investigation in Berth 0                         Assess tke causes behind the structural problems that appeared         nthe geotehnical farto  ihst caused thel
after the completion of the construction                     NdVlacement of the berth
Occanographic Study in Berdt 0                                Design of an adequate soluion for the strenghtening of Berth 0   Definig changes in sub-soil and bearing forces on B
Seabed underground displacement in Berth 0                    Design of an adequate sohution for the strerghtemng of Berth 0    Measuring the actual and expected ground displacement in Bcrth
Electric circuit for the feeding of the conveyor belts in Berth 0    Improvement of operation efficiency of Berth 0                    w electrcal supply to operation equipmen for hulk
________________________________                                                             __           _                  oIaders 
Pr.elininary enrcrruirg design for the improvement of Berth I    Development of a solution for the stregthening of Berth I    ~ Dcfining a structural solution to stabinze Berth 1
(Berth O before)                                                 _
DetaiLs engineering design for the strengthening & improvements Development of a solution for the stregthening of Berth 1  iEngineering desing for the geotechnical problema
in Berth I (Berth O before)                                    _
Geotechirical Investigation for yard paving in Berth I (Berth 0    Development of a solution for the stregthening of Berth I      iBasnf iormation for designing the rebuilding of the yard
before)
A. 2. Puerto San Antonio
Prliminary enginnering design of Berth 4                      Rehabiitation and modenization of port teminals               Inwetigation on the existing renditions to proceed with the
lstructural desiz to rebuild Berth 4
Geotcchnical investigation for the preliinhary engineering design  Rehabilitation and modermization of port teininais      WGeotechnical mformation for the preriminary engineering design
ofBerh4                                                                                                                     ofBerth 4
Study of Sedimentation on model for the extension of the yard in  Extension of port backup areas                           zAssessment on the technical feasibility for the extension of
Berth 3                                                                                                                    Ireclaimed backuu areas
Model study of sena swll irpact on the Main Bmsin             Ensure good port operation especially for contau Ar vessels  1Asaessment of sea swell impact in port operation after the
F_________________________________  ~       ~        ~        ~       ~      ~     ~      ~ -pcmttLon of works and dredging
Complementary study on sea sweli impact on Berth 3, 5,6 & 7   Additional study to include the now berths of the Master Plan of (Aacssm_nt of sea swel impact in port operation afer the
I______________________________________ San Antonio Port                                                                    lcompletion of the Master Plan
hChenical Sediment Analysis in the Main Basin                 Dewlopment of the dredging program                            Needed to attain authorization for acquiring location for dred ging
__ _ __ _ __ _  _   __   _  __   _   __   ___                                                                    twaste 
Environmental monitoring of Berths 2 &I-S                     Environmetal Action Plan in San Antonio Port                 Wornitcring the erviommental impact from te buLk loading in the
Geothocnical investigation for the construction of Molito Pier  Small-scale fishing facilities program in the 5th Region   fGeotechmical infornation for Molito Pier design
{Engineering design for the reclamation behind the breakwater for Extension of port backup areas                            tPreliminary design of a now conatainer yard
a container yard                                                                                                           .                                                             I
Development Plan for San Autonio Port                         Futur pottextinsprograminrifrastructrandyopration   -Prioritizing of the port extension program for the new nilleniumi
_  __                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~capacity                                          0
A. 3. Puserto Vaiparaiso
gDetaits Engineering Design for Berths 3, 2 & 1                Rehabilitation and modernization of port terminals            New engineerig design for the berdis affected by 1985's
_________________________________________________                                           '~~~~~~~earthquake                                     fbshi
Geotechaical Investigation for Engineering Design of Berths 3, 2  Rehabilitation and modernization of port terminals       tGeotechnical information for the preliminary engineering
Soil Bearing Capacity in Bcrths 3,2 & 1                       Rehabilitation and modernization of port terminab            XDetermining the bearing capacity of soil for the engineering desrga
Preliminfiry Evaluation on Actual Condition of Berths 4 & 5    Rehabilitation and modenuzation of port teminals                     i    the cta condiin  of the ierth ustruturec
__________________________________________________________                                                                 {by  1985's  carthL uake
Basic and Details Engincring Design for Bedrs 4 & 5          Port extensio program is infiastructure and operation capacity   New structtura design for Berths 4 & 5
Environmental Impact of the Drcdgng Waste disposal from       Environmental regulations for the dredging works              Needed to attain authorization for a location for dredgig waste
Baron Pier                                                                                                                    sa
Engineering Design for pile anchoring in Berth 4              Rehabilitation and modernization of port terminals            Control the stability of the existing and rehabilitated structures
_____________________________________________________   ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       affected   by   the  1985's  earthqua3ke
Detrmining ofrockbed level in Berth I                         Rehabilitation and modernization of port terminals           'Veriication ofsoil bearing capacity for pile drivin in Berth I
Small-Scale Fishing Farilties in Costanera Sector             Relocation of small-scale fishing activity, in coordination with the IAnalysi of the posble relocation of the snall-fishing Beet
______________________     developmnent of conmcrcial port                            operatiog hr Costanea sector
TOR for a study on the fture development of Valparaiso Port   Future port extension program in infrastructore and operaton    |Thc terms of reference for the bidding of the study
.___________________________________________________     _ . . .capacity                                                 .



18
Table 7: Studies included In Project (cont)
B. Transport & Institutional Studies
Nw Port Tariff System                                    Proposal and design of a new tariff system that better reflect   The proposal introduces a new charge-for-use of the port in
service costs and allow each port to be self-financed    addition to the charge for docking, both of them applying on
veaset category
tostitutional organization of the smrall-scale fishing sector  Improvement of Small-Scale Fishing Sector          Giving legal support to the tsanfer of the improvement of
fishing facilities to formally recognized Fishermen
Associations
Integral study on fishing facilities in the 5th Region   Program for the improvement and building small-scale fishing  Defining actions to separate fishing activities from commercial
ports in the 5th Region                                  activities, and actions for the improvement of small-scale
fishing facilities in the 5th Region
Infrastructure Development in the Macrocentral Region    Programming the infrastructure development in the        Diagnosis of the current condition of the Macrocentral Region's
Macrocentral Region                                      infrastructure and the development needed to meet long-term
demand
Environmental Regalations in Chileam ports              Improving Chilean pore's environmental conditions         Definition of environmental standard for consideration as
guidelines in Chile's ports
DOP's Dredger Replacement                                Increase efficiency in port's operations and promote private    Inventory of DOP's current dredgers and evaluation of
sector participation                                     alternatives for replacing equipment and for privatizing
dredging service in ports
Pre-feasibility of an industrial fishing port in Talcahuano  Improving Chilean port's environmental conditions, reducing   Proposal for a new layout separating fishing and commercial
impact of port operation in urban areas, and modernizing  activities in San Vicente Port
fishing industrial sector
tmprovement of river mouths                             Improvement in the environmental conditions and in the    Multipurpose rehabilitation of river mouths, including the
operations of small-scale fishing sector                 sheltering of fishing activities
Progress in International Port and Maritime Technology, and   Organizing a seminar about this subject             The seminar was held in Santiago, Chile in May of 1997
its relevasce to Chile.



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ '000)
Category                Ap rasal Estimate              Revised Estimate                Actual Estimate (
Local  Foreign       Total   . Local   Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Part A                       _
Civil Works                   23,266   43,018        66,284   N/A       N/A        N/A       108,809     23,049  131,858
Equipment                     N/A       12,900       12,900   N/A       N/A        N/A         10,051         0   10,051
Technical Assistance
Supervision of Construction  N/A       3,340         3,340   N/A      N/A        N/A          6,425       862    7,287
Engineering Studies          N/A         800           800   N/A      N/A        N/A          4,333      1,256    5,589
Studies & Proj. Monitoring   N/A       5,650         5,650   N/A      N/A        N/A          1,130       763    1,893
Training                      N/A         500           500   N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A           332      332
Total Part A                  23,266   66,208        89,474   N/A       N/A        N/A       130,748     26,262  157,010
Part B                                      __ ______                                       __ _   _ ____
Civil Works                    4,949    9,151        14,100                                        0          0         0
Equipment                     N/A         286           286                                        0          0         0
Total Part B                   4,949    9,437        14,386   N/A       N/A        N/A             0          0         0
Total Project's Base Costs    28,215   75,645       103,860
Physical Contingency            4,009   11,063       15,072                    1                                1
Price Contingency               4,252   11,663       15,915 _
Taxes and Duties              25,306                 25,306                                                     1
ITotal Project's Costs         61,782   98,371       160,153   N/A       N/A        N/A       130,748     26,262  157,010
(*) Actual Estimate: Project costs as of June 30, 1999.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$Million)
Source                Ap raisal estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate (*)
Local  Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign      Total
IBRD)                           -         71.0C        71.0     -          26.3       26.3
Govermnent                      59.5       6.7         66.2   120.7                  120.7
Private Sector                    2.3     20.7         23.0    10.0                   10.0
TOTAL                      1    61.8      98.4        160.2    130.7       26.3      157.0
* Actual Estimate: Project costs as of June 30, 1999.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
a) Construction of Berth No.l (Previously Berth 0 ) San Vicente
Port Traffic VIII Region  Benefit in Saving of Waiting  ivestment Cost  Cash Flow ('000 $ ) with
Year                              Tim  I)                          - Maintenance   Actual Expenditure
SAR     Actual      SAR      EIm          SAR      Actual               SAR        ICR
I                ~~~~~~Estimate
1991                 6607           0                -6272    -6719         .       -6272     -6719
1992       7892      7176       1953           0     -1728    -4368        -80        145     -4448
1993       8255      6709       7189           0                   0      -160      7029       -160
1994       8324      8141       7285        3500                -111      -160      7125       3229
1995       8366      9389       7285       12000       _        -186      -160      7125      11654
1996       8422      8836       8434       9500          .      -650      -160      8274       8690
1997       8488      8289       8434       . 5000  .            -706      -160      8274      4134
1998       8559      7194       8538           0                -164      -160      8378       -324
1999       9425      7194      12189           0                 -30      -160     12029       -190
2000       9676      7374       16073          0                          -160      15913      -160
2001       9676      7558       16073          0                          -160     15913       -160
2002       9676      7747       16073          0                          -160      15913      -160
2003       9676      7941      16073           0                          -160     15913       -160
2004       9676      8139      16073           0                          -160     15913       -160
2005      10199      8343      34678           0                  _       -160     34518       -160
2006      10199      8551      34678           0                          -160     34518       -160
2007      10199      8765      34678           0           -              -160     34518       -160
2008      10199      8984      34678           0                          -160     34518       -160
2009      10199      9209      34678           0                          -160     34518       -160
2010      11231      9439      94457           0                          -160     94297       -160
Notes: (I) Conservative estim;ation taking into account the surplus of capacity inthe ports of the    ERR  71%  24%
Region VIII from 1998 on.                                               NPV (12%)  $79,668    $4,737



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
b) Valparaiso / San Antonio Combined Investments
Traffic (million ton)   Expenditures              Combined Benefits    Cash Flow ('000 $ ) wi
Year                      Actual   Updated Maintenance                         ACal Expenditu
_ Actual Expenditure
SAR     Actual                                  SAR         ICR (l)
1991   5813       6445      -3224               0            0              0             -3224
1992   6311       7579      -11824            -56          353              0            -11880
1993   6741       7984     -15228            -271         4740              0            -15499
1994   6924       8647     -16447            -673        11610              0            -17120
1995   7260      10258     -24305            -939        20145         50000              24756
1996   7573      10872      -13113          -1091         4204          55000             40796
1997   7899      11280      -19311          -1500        16933         65000              44189
1998   8240      11979     -22201           -1500        39435         70000              46299
1999   8595      12000      -5526           -1500        45487         100000             92974
2000   8965      12240           0          -1500        53368         150000            148500
2001             12485           0          -1500        75353         175000            173500
2002             12734           0           -1500      101854         200000            198500
2003             12989           0          -1500       114411        220000             218500
2004        _   13249            0          -1500       121121        240000             238500
2005  11223      13514           0           -1500       128466        250000            248500
2006             13784           0          -1500                      250000            248500
2007             14060           0          -1500                      250000            248500
2008             14341           0          -1500                      250000            248500
2009             14628           0          -1500                      250000            248500
2009  14353      14628          -1           -1500      368774         370000            368499
Notes:  (1) Benefits reduced in years 1995-1999 until works finalized.  ERR                  60%
NPV                    $541,684



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Text   Covenant               Start/Orig.   End/Rev.
Reference   Type     Status   Fulfillment Date Fulfillment Date              Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Loan Agreement Section
2.02(b)     I         C      May 15,1992   Dec. 1,1997  OpeningandmaintainingspeialaccountinUS$.
3.01(c)     5         C      Mar.10,1992                 Enter beneficiary Agreement between MOP & Emporchi.          Effectiveness additional condition
3.02       5         C      Apr.16,1992    Dec.31,1998  Procurement according to Bank Guidelines.
3.03       5         C       JuL24,1992    Jun.24,1999  Inform and request comments from Bank on newport-related    Semiamnually, corresponding to supervision
I______                 __I ________ investment in Project ports hinterland.                       missions.
3.04       5         C       Jul.24,1992    Jun.24,1999  Review with new MOP port investments and consult if higher than US$ Semiannually, corresponding to supervision
_________         ______________  5 million.                                                                 missions.
4.01       1         C      Apr.16,1992                 Maintenance of records and accounts.
4.01(b)     1         C       Jun.30,1993    Jun.30,1999  Annual audited reports.
4.01(c)     I         C       Apr.16,1992    Oct.10,1996  Statement of Expenditure.
4.02       2        CP      Dec.31,1992    Dec.31,1998  Fund from EMPORCITS internal sources >48% of EMPORCIHS      This ratio not met in 1995 for emergency
4___02___project expenditures.                                            extm-costs by earthquake in Antofaeasta
4.02       2        CP      Dec.31,1992    Dec.31,1998  Ratio of working expenses / operating revenues of EMPORCH less    This ratio was not met in the period 1994-
__an_Areemen Schedule_than 46%.                                                                              1997 (see Para. 43)
Loian Agreement Schedule
5 (1)      5         C      Apr.16,1992    Jun.30,1999  Maintenance of IPCU; maintenance funding of PCU.            Effectiveness additional condition
5 (2) (a)   6        CD       Dec.31,1992    Oct.24,1996  Sent to Bank study on fishing berths before Dec. 31, 1992.
5 (2) (b)   6         CP      Jun.30,1993    Jun.30,1999  Based on 5 (2) (a) adopt policy guidelines.                 Inplemented over a long period
5 (4) (a)   10       CD       Dec.31,1992    Dec.31,1995  Prefeasibility study of port access done.                   Studies done by SECTRA.
5 (4) (b)   10        CD      Dec.31,1992   Jun.30,1999  Implementation of 5 (4) (a).                                 Works in progress
5 (5)      2        CD       Dec.31,1992   Jun.30,1998  Adopt new EMPORCHI port Tariff system before Dec. 31, 1993.  Included in terminal bidding documents
5 (6)      5        CP      Dec.31,1992       N/A       Study on Inland Intermodal Terminal before Dec. 31,1992.    Study was cancelled in 1994
5 (7)      6         C      Mar.31,1992   May.15,1992  Cease fishing activities at Berth 3 in San Antonio by March 31, 1992.  Revised Date
5 (3)      6        CP      Dec.31,1993    Jul.31,1997  Carry out Port Enviromnental Plan.                          Implemented only at San Antonio
(*) Covenant original fulfillment dates written in bold characters. Normal characters indicates start/end of the application period.
Status    C  - Complied with                CP   - Complied with partially
CD - Complied after delay
Covenant Type:
01 = Accounts/audits
02 = Financial performance revenue generation from beneficiaries
05 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
09 = Monitoring, review, and reporting



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project              ActuallLatest Estimate
Cycle          No. Staff weeks               USS ('000)
Preparation to             67.4                         194.4
Appraisal
Appraisal                  32.0                          77.9
Neaotiations
Supervision                85.8                         291.5
Completion                  8.0                          25.5
Total                193.2                        589.3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Month/    Number of    Days in    Specialized               Performance Rating        Types of
Stage of Project   Year       Persons       Field      Staff Skill    Implementat.      Developm.    Problems
Year       Per_ons        Field    Represented        Progress        Objectives
Preparationl      Mar-91          3           48        TEC,FA,PE
/Avvraisal         Jul-91         4           68      TEC,FA,PE,LW
Board Approval
Through           Mar-92          3           36        TEC,PE,C             I                I
Effectiveness                                                                                                   _
Supervision        Jul-92         3            15       TEC,PE,C             I                        PC, CC
_______   Nov.-92     2            10       TECPE,C        I__    1 _    _  _    1        PC, CC
May-93         2            10         TEC,PE              2               1       PC, CC
Mar-94         3            18        TEC,TEG             2                1       PC, CC
Jul-94        2            24          TEG,C              S               S        PC, FP, CC
Apr-95         2            6         TEG,FA              S                S       PC, FP, CC
Oct-95         2            16        TEG,FA              S                S       PC, FP, CC
May-96         2            4         TEG,TEC              S               S       PC, FP, CC
Oct-96         1            4           TEG               S                S       PC, FP, CC
Mar-97         1            4           TEG               S                S       PC, FP, CC
Dec-97         1            7           TEG               S                S       LC
Jun-98         2            7         TS, TEG             S                S       LC
Dec-98         1            6            TS               S                S       LC
May-99         1            7            TS                S               S       LC
Total                                         290                           - __
Staff Skils: TEG: Transport Engineer, TEC: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist;
LW: Lawyer; C: Consultant; FA: Financial Analyst; PE: Port Engineer
Problers: PC: Project Coordination; CC: Covenant Compliance; FP: Financial Performance;
LC: Loan Cancellation



APPENDIX A
24                 Proyecto de Infraestructira de rransporte
Ayuda Memnoria. Mayo 1999 Pag I
AYUDA MEMORIA
MISI6N DE SUPERVISION
PROYECTO DE INFRAESTRUCTURA DE TRANSPORTE
PRESTAMO 3426-CH
1.    Entre el 10 y el 14 de mayo de 1999, tuvo lugar en Santiago de Chile una misi6n de
supervisi6n del Banco Mundial, a cargo del Ing. Sr. Rafael Garcia Alcolea. Esta misi6n, que
hace el nuimero 1 5' de las realizadas para este Proyecto, es la ultima dentro del desarrollo del
convenio de prestamo BIRF 3426-CH. Por ello, su objetivo principal fue hacer una evaluaci6n
preliminar de la implementaci6n del Proyecto, y revisar los trabajos preparatorios para la
redacci6n del Informe Final. La misi6n se entrevist6 con el Ministro de Obras Publicas, el
Director de Obras Portuarias y el Gerente de la Empresa Portuaria de Valparaiso, asi como con
representantes de la Direcci6n de Obras Portuarias (DOP), de la citada empresa y de la
Direcci6n de Presupuestos del Ministerio de Hacienda (Anexo 1). La misi6n agradece a todas
las personas que han colaborado en el desarrollo de su trabajo la excelente colaboraci6n
prestada. El dia 12 de mayo, la misi6n realiz6 una visita tecnica al Puerto de Valparaiso, cuyo
contenido se comenta en el apartado 17.
2.    En la entrevista con el Ministro de Obras Publicas, Sr. Jaime Toha Gonzalez, la misi6n
expuso su opini6n acerca del desarrollo del Proyecto de Infraestructura de Transporte en Chile
y del logro de los objetivos planteados, y destac6 asimismo la importancia del conocimiento
adquirido de esta experiencia en el area portuaria chilena. La misi6n expres6 al Sr. Ministro su
agradecimiento por el apoyo recibido en Chile al desarrollo de su gesti6n. A su vez, el Sr.
Ministro destac6 la importancia que ha tenido la realizaci6n de este proyecto para favorecer la
implementaci6n de las acciones de modernizaci6n del sector portuario estatal en que se
encuentra empefiado el Gobierno
3.    Preparaci6n del Informe Final del Proyecto. La DOP inform6 a la misi6n que la
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCP) se mantendra operativa, como interlocutor del
Banco, hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1999, fecha en la que debera concluirse el Informe Final del
Proyecto (ICR). La misi6n analiz6, con los responsables de la UCP, la situaci6n de los trabajos
preparatorios para la redacci6n del Informe Final. La UCP ha redactado un documento sobre
el Plan para la Fase Operativa del Proyecto. La misi6n ha solicitado una ampliaci6n del
contenido del mismo, aniadiendo un nuevo apartado sobre las "previsiones para la operaci6n de
las terminales portuarias del Proyecto", resumiendo la informaci6n de los Planes Maestros y
de los Calendarios Referenciales de Inversi6n de los tres puertos del Proyecto, respecto de la



25
Proystxo de Infiraestructura dc Trransportc
Ayuda Memoria. Mayo 1999 Pag 2
demanda potencial, las inversiones en equipos, las mejoras de rendimiento y de calidad de
servicio, y las tarifas, como resultado del proceso de licitaci6n de estas terminales. Este
documento no va a ser, por tanto, incluido en esta Ayuda Memoria y su versi6n final seri
enviada a] Banco antes del 31 de mayo de 1999.
4.    La misi6n recibi6 un primer borrador del Informe de Evaluaci6n Final del Proyecto
desde el punto de vista del Prestatario, que debera incluirse como anexo en el ICR. Una nueva
versi6n de este informe sera enviada al Banco antes del 30 de junio de 1999. La misi6n
recornienda profundizar mas en los aspectos de evaluaci6n del proyecto global y de sus
principales componentes, asi como en las lecciones aprendidas durante el proceso de desarrollo
del Proyecto. En relaci6n con la preparaci6n del ICR, ia UCP enviara al Banco, antes del 31 de
mayo de 1999, una copia de los estudios de evaluaci6n econ6mica de los principales
componentes del proyecto, realizados durante la fase de preparaci6n del Proyecto.
5.    Situaci6n Final del Proyecto y Cumplimiento de Objetivos. A esta fecha, el
programa de inversiones del MOP en los Puertos del Proyecto (Valparaiso, San Antonio y San
Vicente) se ha desarrollado practicamente en su totalidad, faltando concluir la ampliaci6n de la
explanada del Puerto de San Antonio, proyecto cuya terminaci6n esta prevista para el mes de
septiembre de 1999. En el Anexo 2 se incluyen tres cuadros, referidos a 31 de marzo de 1999,
con la ejecuci6n del programa de inversiones del proyecto, en cada puerto y segun categorias
de gasto, el detalle de los proyectos y estudios realizados y un cronograma de la realizacion de
los principales subproyectos con las fechas previstas inicialmente y de ejecucion real.
6.    Los objetivos planteados en este proyecto pueden considerarse cubiertos en su totalidad,
aunque una parte de los mismos alcanzara el desarrollo total previsto cuando concluya el
proceso de modernizaci6n del sistema portuario de Chle. Las obras reafizadas han supuesto un
importante trabajo de reconstrucci6n y mejora de la infraestructura existente y una significativa
ampliacion de la capacidad de los tres puertos estatales mas importantes del pais. Este aumento
de capacidad va a permitir hacer frente a las proyecciones actuales del trifico portuario mas alla
del afno 2005, con la participaci6n de la iniciativa privada en inversiones en nuevos
equipamientos y en una mejor gestion de los espacios portuarios y de los antepuertos. Durante
los ahos noventa, los puertos de Valparaiso y San Antonio, han experimentado un crecimiento
sostenido de su trafico cercano al 10 % anual. La crisis econ6mica actual ha quebrado esta
tendencia, en 1998, con un crecimiento de solo un I % en los puertos puiblicos y una
disminuci6n del 2 % en la totalidad del sistema portuario de Chile.
7.    El aumento de la eficacia y rendimiento de las operaciones en los tres puertos ha
alcanzado un nivel aceptable a lo largo de la vida del Proyecto, pero se espera que el proceso
iniciado por la ley 19.542, de modernizaci6n del sector portuario estatal, promulgada en
diciembre de 1997, va a aportar un avance decisivo en este aspecto. Se han constituido ya las
diez empresas portuarias aut6nomas estatales, derivadas de la anterior Emporchi (Empresa
Portuaria de Chile), con una importante reducci6n de personal, para adaptar la planta a las
necesidades del nuevo esquema. Por otra parte, a primeros de abril de 1999, se ha reiniciado
el proceso de licitaci6n de las concesiones de los distintos frentes de atraque en los tres puertos
antes citados, despues de la demora provocada por la presentacion de varios recursos ante las



26
I'royccto de Infraesmtructra de Tramsporte
Ayuda Memoria. Mayo 1999 Pag 3
autoridades judiciales por parte de entidades privadas interesadas en el negocio portuario. Una
vez superada esta situaci6n, las nuevas concesiones podran estar operando en el segundo
semestre de 1999.
8.    El objetivo de la politica del Gobierno es promover la inversi6n privada en las
operaciones portuarias para mejorar su eficiencia con la incorporaci6n de gesti6n y tecnologia,
completando de este modo el esfiuerzo publico en infraestructura, realizado durante la decada
de los noventa. Con ello, se disminuira el coste de transporte asociado al comercio exterior
maritimo y se liberaran recursos puiblicos, que se podran destinar a] desarrollo de otros
programas sociales prioritarios. Aunque el nivel de las tarifas de los puertos chilenos es bajo,
en relaci6n con otros paises del entomo, todavia pueden lograrse importantes mejoras de
productividad y de costos, que permitirian la aplicaci6n de menores tarifas, y una mejor calidad
de los servicios, a traves de este proceso de licitaci6n.
9.    En los tres puertos se han realizado estudios sobre la problematica puerto-ciudad, que
han servido de base para la apertura de procesos de concertaci6n entre administraciones
puiblicas, autoridades portuarias y sectores afectados. En Valparaiso, se debe tomar una decisi6n
sobre la adjudicaci6n del estudio sobre las alternativas de uso del borde costero en la bahia y
establecer-la coordinaci6n de este estudio con el estudio del Ministerio de Transportes sobre
"Construcci6n de planes estrategicos de desarrollo de sistema de transportes del Gran
Valparaiso - ESTRAVAL". En la Octava Regi6n se ha formado una Comision Regional de
.Ordenaniento de la Bahia de San Vicente y otra de Uso del Borde Costero. Se ha puesto en
marcha la elaboraci6n de un Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial de la Zona Costera, Region del
Bio Bio, para definir una soluci6n global para la problematica de la Bahia de San Vicente, con
especial referencia al aspecto ambiental.
10.   En cuanto al tema de accesos terrestres a los puertos, las inversiones en la red nacional
de carreteras han conducido a una notable mejora de la conexi6n interregional e interurbana
de los puertos. En accesos urbanos, aunque se ha realizado un importante trabajo en estudios
previos y disefios, quedan todavia etapas por cumplir, como la construcci6n de la segunda fase
del Acceso Sur al Puerto de Valparaiso y la ruta interportuaria Talcahuano-Penco.
11.   Ejecuci6n Financiera del Proyecto. Al 31 de marzo de 1999, se habia realizado una
inversi6n puiblica de US$145 millones, de los cuales US$26,3 millones fieron financiados con
el aporte del credito del Banco Mundial (Anexo 2). El porcentaje de inversi6n publica
efectivamente realizada a esta fecha representa el 93,2 % de la cifra de inversi6n publica total
actualizada (US$155,6 millones). La terminaci6n de las obras civiles y asesorias de la
ampliaci6n de la explanada en el Puerto de San Antonio, prevista para agosto de 1999,
supondra el cierre total del proyecto, con una cifra cercana al 100 % de las previsiones de
inversion publica. El Proyecto tiene un valor actual estimado en US$176,3 millones, incluyendo
la previsi6n inicial de inversi6n privada en bienes de equipo. La inversi6n inicial prevista en el
SAR (1992) era de US$160,2 millones. A lo largo de la vida del Proyecto, solo se ha
materializado la inversi6n privada en bienes (gruas) prevista en el Puerto de San Antonio,
mediante el sistema de concesiones y sin financiaci6n del prestamo. Sin embargo, la inversi6n
similar prevista en Valparaiso no lleg6 a realizarse, dejandose sin efecto la licitacion llevada a



27
Proyecto de Infraestructura de Trabpofre
Ayuda Memoria. Mayo 1999 Pag 4
cabo con ese fin. Aunque el prestamo fue cancelado ajulio de 1997, se ha mantenido la vigencia
del esquema de trabajo de supervisi6n del Proyecto, de acuerdo con los terminos del Convenio
de Prestamo.
12.   Indicadores financieros de la gesti6n de Emporchi. El Anexo 7 del Convenio de
Prestamo, acapites 7(a) y 8(a), sefiala que deben producirse en el ejercicio financiero anual de
Emporchi, fondos provenientes de fuentes intemas no inferiores al 48% del promedio anual de
gastos del Proyecto, asi como mantenerse una relaci6n de gastos totales/ingresos totales de
operaci6n no superior al 46%. Al establecerse por Ley 19.542 de diciembre de 1997, la
desaparici6n de Emporchi y la autonomia de los tres puertos del proyecto, las metas
establecidas en el convenio deben entenderse aplicables, en el ejercicio 1998, para cada uno de
los tres puertos por separado. En el Anexo 3 se incluye la informnaci6n disponible relativa a este
ejercicio. Las cifras indican el cumplimiento de la primera condici6n en los tres puertos, muy
por encima del limite establecido, y el incumplimiento de la segunda, con una desviaci6n de
aproximadamente diez puntos porcentuales, en los puertos de Valparaiso y San Vicente. Puede
concluirse, por tanto, que los puertos del Proyecto no tienen problemas de cara a los
compromisos asumidos en la financiaci6n del Proyecto, pero tienen una relaci6n costosfingresos
por encima del valor 6ptimo considerado. Situaci6n que puede explicarse por las dificultades
del proceso de adaptaci6n institucional y por la crisis econ6mica. Por otra parte, la misi6n ha
sido informada de que la amortizaci6n del prestamo se esta realizando con las siguientes cuotas
de reparto de los gastos: Valparaiso, 38,5 %; San Antonio, 54,7 %; y San Vicente, 6,8 %;. Las
cantidades resultantes son transferidas por cada puerto al Tesoro Publico.
13.   Con vistas a la redacci6n del ICR, la misi6n ha solicitado a la UCP la realizaci6n de un
informe sobre la elaboraci6n de estos indicadores en el periodo cde vigencia del convenio, 1992-
1998, y un anilisis de las causas que explican los valores alcanzados y el alto grado de variacion
anual de los mismos. Este informe seri enviado al Banco antes del 31 de mayo. de 1999.
Desarrollo de los programas del proyecto desde la misi6n anterior
14.   Obras Civiles en ejecuci6n y sus asesorias
Puerto de San Antonio. Construcci6n de explanada a ganar al mar detras del Sitio N3. Obra
contratada con el Consorcio GENDER COLBUN, por un monto total de $ 4.835.093.315 (base
agosto de 1996). Este contrato tiene aumentos tramitados al 31.03.99, que suman
$1.673.097.313 (34,60% del valor inicial ) y fecha de termino ampliada al 06.06.99. El avance
fisico real reprogramado, a marzo de 1999, es del 88.99%, lo que representa un atraso del
7,01%. El area ganada al mar ha sido completada pese a la persistencia de marejadas intensas
en el sector, que han conducido a refuerzos especiales de las defensas. La explanada se
encuentra en su fase de pavimentaci6n con bloques prefabricados de hormig6n.
La asesoria a la Inspecci6n Fiscal, contratada con INCOSTAS CHILE S.A. en un monto de
$338.588.297 (base septiembre de 1996), tiene un aumento total aprobado al 31 de marzo de
1999, de $268.586.020 (79,33%) y fecha vigente de termino al 06.07.99.



28
Proyecto de Infrae-anictura de Tranrpoc
Ayuda Memoria. Mayo 1999 Pag 5
Puerto de Valparaiso. Las obras de atraque en los Sitios 3-2 y I han quedado concluidas. El
contrato ha sido recibido provisionalmente, de acuerdo con el reglamento, y se encuentra en
servicio activo, todo dentro de los plazos estipulados. Con una uiltima resoluci6n modificatoria,
tramitada en abril de 1999, el contrato inicial de $12.363.223.443 ha quedado ampliado en
$2.931.929.016 (23,71% del valor inicial).
La asesoria a la Inspecci6n Fiscal, contratada con "Promina Ingenieria y Construcci6n" en
$614.992.320, ha tenido una ampliaci6n total ascendente a $518.471.168 (84,31%). Las
asesorias complementarias de servicios de ingenieria, aplicaci6n del proyecto y aplicaci6n de
ingenieria estructural, han sido oportunamente completadas con una inversi6n conjunta del
orden de $223.340.000.
iS.   Estudios
. Prefactibilidad de un puerto pesquero industrial en la comuna de Talcahuano. En este tema
la Intendencia Regional ha creado las Comisiones Regionales de "Ordenamiento de la Bahia
de San Vicente" y de "Uso del Borde Costero". Esta iultima ha planteado un "Plan de
Ordenamiento Territorial de la Zona Costera de la Regi6n del Bio Bio", plan que se ha
convenido, para su realizaci6n, entre los gobiernos de Alemania y Chile (Decreto N 1820
de 22.10.98, Diario Oficial de 05.02.99).
Moramiento de las desembocaduras del estero Marga Marga (V Regi6n) y de los rios
Mataauito (VII R.). Carampangue (VIII R.) v Oueule (IX R.). Este estudio, se encuentra en
desarrollo con un monto de $440,72 Millones, financiado por el MOP, como continuaci6n de
un estudio conceptual sobre este tema, incluido en el Programa BIRF. Su trsmino esti previsto
para fines de 1999. Cuenta con la asesoria de "J.B. Font T", contratada en US$120.175,0.
* Alternativas de Uso del Borde Costero de la Bahia de Valparaiso. Inicialmente se denomin6
"Plan Director para el puerto de Valparaiso". Sus terminos de referencia, contratados con
"Soluciones Integrales S.A." dieron lugar a la licitaci6n de este estudio, que se encuentra en la
fase de analisis de los antecedentes presentados, para otorgar la propuesta. El estudio tendra
un plazo de siete meses y su presupuesto oficial programado es del orden de $200 Millones.
.16.   Accesos a Puertos.
Los estudios preinversionales, relacionados con este aspecto, son realizados por SECTRA
(MDEPLAN) y los proyectos y obras son controlados por la Subdirecci6n de Vialidad Urbana,
de la Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad del MOP. Los principales proyectos en ejecuci6n o en
preparaci6n son los siguientes:
a)    En Valparaiso, Ruta 68. La primera etapa del "Acceso Sur" o "Camino La P6lvora',
Placilla - Puertas Negras, tiene un avance de 93,4 % (con fecha de termino al 31 de mayo de
1999) y un costo de $ 6.378 Millones. La segunda fase, Puertas Negras - San Mateo, esta
programada para el affo 2.000.



29                    Proyecto de Infra.stnuctura i Tran,poft
Ayuda Memoria. Mayo 1999 Pag 6
Ademas, en la Ruta 68, en el desvio a Vinia del Mar, se construye actualmente el enlace
de Agua Santa, que descongestionari el conflictivo nudo de alternativa a] puerto de Valparaiso
o al Balneario de Vifia del Mar (Variante Agua Santa). El enlace tiene un costo de $2.900
Millones y una fecha de termino al 31.05.99. Adicionalmente, se desarrolla un programa por
concesi6n para el mejoramiento de la Ruta, que incluye el disefio y construcci6n de dos
tuneles (2.886 y 1.280m, respectivamente) paralelos a los actuales, de dos vias cada uno. Se
espera iniciar obras hacia agosto de 1999 en un contrato por concesi6n ya vigente, con un
monto estimado de inversi6n de 12.090.000 UF, IVA excluido, y un plazo de 25 afios. Esta
concesi6n comprende 116 Km correspondientes a la Ruta 68 mas 20.6 Km del Camino Troncal
Sur, que conecta con el sector norponiente de la Regi6n.
b) En San Antonio. Ruta 78. Las obras se encuentran terminadas y operando por concesi6n.
En enero pasado alcanz6 un cifra record de 898.596 vehiculos, que significa un crecimiento
del 43% con respecto a enero de 1998. Este contrato por concesi6n implico una inversion en
obras nuevas por 4.200.000 UF, IVA excluido, en 102 Km, mas 12 Km en 2 accesos. Su
vigencia es de 23 anos. La vialidad urbana de San Antonio se encuentra aun en la etapa de
planificaci6n y disenio, para el paso y enlaces de las vias hacia el puerto.
c) Conexi6n San Vicente - Talcahuano. El Proyecto de ingenieria se encuentra terminado.
Para su realizaci6n, se tramita su traspaso a la tuici6n del MOP, pues actualmente depende del
MINVU. Su presupuesto oficial[es del orden de $3.360 Millones, con un plazo de ejecuci6n
de 15 meses. Se estima el inicio de obras para el primer trimestre del 2.001.
d) Acceso Sur al Puerto de Coronel. El proyecto de ingenieria esta terminado, con un
presupuesto de $2.310 Millones y plazo de ejecuci6n de 14 meses. Su licitaci6n esta
programada para fines de 1999.
e) Acceso a] puerto de Lirquen (By pass Penco-Lirquen). Su disefio esta terminado. Tendra un
costo de $11.240 Millones. Con un plazo de ejecuci6n de 20 meses, se licitara a fines del aino
2.000.
f3 Conexi6n Talcahuano - Penco. Se encuentra aun en anAlisis. Se estima que tendra un costo
de US$ 12 Millones. Se licitaria por concesi6n durante el anio 2.000.
17.   Visita al Puerto de Valparaiso. De acuerdo con el programa de la rnision, se realiz6
una visita al Puerto de Valparaiso, el miercoles 12 de mayo, para celebrar una entrevista con
el Gerente General de la Empresa Portuaria Valparaiso, Sr. Harald Jaeger Karl. La misi6n
recibi6 una amplia informaci6n acerca de la creaci6n de la empresa aut6noma portuaria en enero
de 1998 y de los resultados financieros durante su primer ejercicio, del contenido del Plan
Maestro y del Calendario Referencial de Inversiones, y de la situaci6n del proceso de licitaci6n
de la Terminal 1. Este terminal tiene un frente de atraque con cinco sitios, tres de los cuales han
sido rehabilitados y modernizados con cargo al Proyecto. El proceso de licitaci6n se encuentra
en la fase de venta de las bases del concurso y de discusi6n puiblica del contrato-tipo con los
interesados. La adjudicaci6n del contrato de concesi6n de la terminal esta prevista para fines



30                 Proyecto de Infracstructura de Trnnsporfe
Ayuda Memoria. Mayo 1999 Pag 7
el mes de septiembre. La misi6n visit6 tambien las obras realizadas con cargo al proyecto en el
Puerto de Valparaiso.
MIGUEL VALENZUELA GAVILAN                             RAFAEL GARCIA ALCOLEA
Director de Obras Portuarias                              Jefe de Proyecto
MINISTERIO DE OBRAS PUBLICAS                                BANCO MUNDIAL
Santiago de Chile, 14 de mayo de 1999



APPENDIX B
31
PROYECTO INFRAESTRUCTURA DE TRANSPORTE
"DESARROLLO PORTUARIO REGIONES V y VIII, CHILE"
CONVENIO BIRF 3426-CH
RESUMEN DE INFORME FINAL
PRELIMINAR
A fines de la decada de los 80 el gobierno sostenia una polItica que apuntaba hacia la
inversi6n privada en los puertos, pensando en que si se mejoraba la tecnologia, se hacia
innecesario invertir en mas infraestructura. Iniciada la decada de los 90, no habia realizado
inversiones de importancia en puertos para paliar los danios del gran sismo de 1985. Solamente
en San Antonio se habia autorizado la rehabilitaci6n del Sitio 1 Norte, entregado por concesi6n
por la Empresa Portuaria de Chile a la Compafiia Minera Disputada de Las Condes.
El primer gobiemo de la Concertaci6n, al asumir en 1990 tenia en sus programas
mejorar y reconstruir los tres puertos principales del pais, para lo cual form6 la comisi6n
Interministerial de Puertos y vio la conveniencia de propiciar su fmanciamiento a traves del
Banco Mundial, concretado en el Convenio de Pr6stamo BIRF 3426-CH, firmado en enero de
1992, con la intenci6n adicional de preparar estos puertos para la mayor demanda de cargas
hasta el afio 2.000. Su monto inicial de US$71.0 millones estaba destinado a la rehabilitaci6n
y modernizaci6n de tres sitios en cada uno de los puertos de San Antonio y Valparaiso (V
Regi6n) y a la construcci6n de un sitio adicional en el Puerto de San Vicente (VIII Regi6n). Los
dos primeros puertos habian sido seriamente dafiados por el gran sismo de 1985, que afect6 a
la zona central de Chile. San Vicente enfrentaba una creciente demanda no satisfecha por falta
de sitios.
El Convenio compromete la participaci6n del Banco Mundial y, por la Repuiblica de
Chile, del Ministerio de Obras Publicas, a traves de la Direcci6n de Obras Portuarias, y de la
Empresa Portuaria de Chile, entidad que en diciembre de 1997 se transform6 en diez empresas
portuarias estatales aut6nomas a lo largo del pais (ley N1 9.542) con la finalidad de traspasar
toda o parte de su operaci6n al sector privado.
La situaci6n econ6mica del pais evolucionaba satisfactoriamente a mediados de la
decada presente, por lo que el gobierno consider6 que disponia de suficientes divisas para
continuar financiando el proyecto y estim6 inconveniente el ingreso de mas d6lares al pais, por
lo que el 24 de julio de 1997 acord6 con el Banco la cancelaci6n de la parte no ocupada del
Prestamo hasta esa fecha, prosiguiendo las obras del Proyecto con pleno financiamiento interno.
A la fecha indicada, la parte ocupada del prestamo alcanz6 a US$26,29 millones. Los aportes
reales del Estado chileno y el Banco Mundial, fueron 75,83% y 24,17%, respectivamente, de
un total general de US$108,79 millones invertidos en el Proyecto a la fecha de la cancelaci6n
Al 30 de junio de 1999, fecha de Cierre del Convenio, el siguiente cuadro muestra las



32
- 2 -
inversiones realizadas en el Proyecto de Infraestructura de Transporte, para el desarrollo
portuario de la Regiones V y VIII, en millones de d6lares:
Local       BIRF         Total
Obras Civiles            108,81       23,05        131,86
Equipamiento              10,05        -            10,05
Asist. T6cnica
Asesoria Inspecci6n    6,43      0,86         7,29
Disefios             4,33        1,26         5,59
Estudios y Control   1,13        0,76          1,89
Capacitaci6n          -          0,33         0,33
130,75      26,26   US$ 157,01 millones
Para completar las inversiones convenidas, considerando los contratos aun vigentes, se
deberan desembolsar, ademas, los siguientes montos (en millones de d6lares): Obras
Civiles: 1,50; Asistencia T6cnica:0,22; Total US$1,72 millones dentro del periodo comprendido
hasta el 31.12.99. El costo total programado hasta hoy asciende aUS$158,73 millones.
Las cifras entregan el desarrollo de la parte A del Programa, en el cual, se incluy6
tambien la parte B, en la practica.
La parte B correspondia a Inversiones Admisibles, que surgieran durante el desarrollo
del Proyecto y para su inclusi6n en el Convenio, justificadamente. En la practica, estas
inversiones fueron autorizadas por el Banco, dando su conformidad e incluyendolas en la parte
A (Programa de Inversi6n Portuaria), por lo que, en apariencias, el financiamiento de la parte
B no habria sido ocupado.
El costo total del Proyecto, inicialmente estaba conformado por las siguientes cifras:
(Staff Appraisal Report, 1991 - Tabla 2.1):
Financiamiento local : US$ 61,78 millones (incluso inversi6n privada)
Financiamiento BIRF: US$ 98,37 millones
TOTAL              : US$160,15 millones
A.- OBJETIVOS
Los peores efectos del Sismo de 1985 se hicieron sentir en el puerto de San Antonio,
donde los Sitios 1 y 2, construidos a comienzos de siglo seguin la f6rmula de grandes bloques
de hormig6n en masa, y el Sitio N3, mAs reciente, segun un tablestacado metalico, resultaron



33
colapsados completamente. En Valparaiso, los Sitios 1-2 y 3 y los pavimentos de las
explanadas, especialmente, tambien resultaron con importantes dafios, aunque no de tanta
gravedad como en San Antonio. Mientras tanto, a 500 Km al Sur de Santiago, el puerto de San
Vicente enfrentaba un importante crecimiento de la demanda en las cargas forestales y sus
derivados, para lo cual se habia programado la construcci6n de un sitio adicional, al norte de los
existentes.
Para recuperar y de paso modernizar todos estos sitios de atraque, se trazaron los
objetivos del Proyecto cubierto por el Convenio, de modo que los puertos mencionados
pudiesen absorber eficientemente la creciente demanda observada, al menos hasta el afio 2.000,
con especial enfasis en la transferencia de contenedores y hacia un disefno asismico acorde con
la experiencia de nuestro pais en este momento.
Con respecto a objetivos trazados para la consideraci6n de problemas relativos al
ambiente, a asuntos pesqueros y a capacitaci6n, considerados en este informe como temas
"Varios", estos han buscado motivar en el pais las tendencias mundiales relativas a la
consideraci6n de estrictas normas para la preservaci6n del ambiente y un ordenamiento
adecuado de las actividades e infraestructuras de la pesca, tanto artesanal como industrial. En
lo tocante a capacitaci6n, el objetivo ha mirado al perfeccionamiento, en distintas areas,
especialmente de profesionales de la DOP como de la anterior Empresa Portuaria de Chile.
Un cuarto elemento incluido en "Varios", corresponde a la incorporaci6n de "Bienes"
a los puertos del proyecto, con recursos privados, como seria la adquisici6n de gruas
portacontenedores, objetivo logrado por el puerto de San Antonio, antes de cambiar la situaci6n
relativa a la divisi6n de la Empresa Portuaria. Mientras tanto el puerto de Valparaiso decidi6
esperar la definici6n del programa de licitaci6n de las operaciones portuarias, para incorporar
en ese proceso la adquisici6n de estos equipos, con capitales privados.
B.- LOGRO DE OBJETIVOS
Cumplido el plazo para el cierre del Convenio, se observa el alcance cabal de las
expectativas, pese a la crisis asiatica que ha afectado moderadamente a los puertos de la zona
centro norte, aunque no puede sefialarse lo mismo para San Vicente en la zona centro sur, que
ha sufrido en mayor medida dichos efectos por la drastica disminuci6n de las exportaciones
madereras en la Regi6n.
La efectividad del Programa se destaca especialmente en San Antonio, donde el
aumento del movimiento, en cuatro anios solamente aument6 casi un 90%, superando los siete
millones de toneladas en 1998, en la transferencia anual de cargas.
Los objetivos fisicos se han logrado plenamente en los puertos de San Antonio y



34
-4 -
Valparaiso, donde las obras se han ejecutado cien por cien y, para Valparaiso, en una cifra algo
mayor al desarrollar mas area uitil junto a la Costanera. En San Vicente la ejecuci6n fisica del
contrato qued6 levemente bajo el 100%, debido a la quiebra econ6mica de la empresa
contratista, en un volumen de obras valorizado apenas en 0.5 millon de dMlares dentro de un
total de 12,3 millones de dMlares para este puerto.
El logro de los objetivos relativos a las condiciones ambientales ha sido parcial, por
cuanto el estudio contratado para los puertos de Valparaiso, San Antonio y San Vicente para un
diagn6stico de protecci6n ambiental que fue terminado en 1994, s6lo se ha puesto en practica
en su parte correspondiente al monitoreo ambiental en San Antonio, pensandose en adoptarlo
como modelo para los restantes puertos del pais, y ha pasado a constituir una referencia para
llevar a la prdctica esta actividad en los futuros procesos de licitaci6n de frentes de atraque en
los puertos estatales, de acuerdo con la ley N19.542.
Otro tanto puede sefialarse respecto de la inversi6n privada en Bienes (como grilas
portacontenedores), lo que alcanz6 a consolidarse s6lo en San Antonio antes de la promulgaci6n
de la ley N1 9.542, quedando pendiente la adquisici6n de las gruias portacontenedores en el
puerto de Valparaiso, como ya se dijo.
Sobre la actividad pesquera artesanal, los estudios encomendados a este fin en la V
Regi6n, estan siendo aplicados a la materializaci6n de un plan de mejoramiento de caletas, al
interior de la DOP. Con el fin de permitir el traspaso de la administraci6n de las caletas a sus
directivas organizadas, la legislaci6n ha sido modificada mediante la promulgaci6n del Decreto
N'161 en septiembre de 1998.
En relaci6n con la pesca industrial, el estudio contratado para la racionalizaci6n de esta
actividad en la Bahia de San Vicente, aunque no ha logrado una aplicaci6n practica, debido a
una falta de decisi6n del sector privado, esta debera resolverse precisamente como consecuencia
del estudio mencionado, tomado como base por el Gobierno Regional en un proceso de
ordenamiento coordinado con el apoyo de un convenio celebrado con la Repuiblica Alemana.
C.- ASPECTOS DESTACADOS ADVERSOS AL PROYECTO
Todos los contratos principales de obras han incurrido en la necesidad de aumentar sus
montos y, por ende sus plazos, dentro de rangos considerados aceptables.
Por otra parte, si bien el Reglamento para Contratos de Obras Puiblicas es una excelente
base de control para los contratos, ha habido imponderables extemos al Ministerio que,
aplicando criterios administrativos y tecnicas diferentes, han entrabado el desarrollo normal de
las tramites administrativos para la terminaci6n de contratos. En el caso de las obras de los
sitios 1 Sur, 2 y 3 de San Antonio, encontrandose estas en explotaci6n por mias de cuatro anios,



35
con un gran y evidente auge en su administraci6n, el contrato aun no puede ser liquidado debido
a observaciones planteadas por la Contraloria y sucesivas apelaciones interpuestas por la
empresa contratista "Belfi S.A."
D.- SUSTENTABILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
La sustentabilidad de las inversiones del programa ha demostrado ser efectiva, a partir
del crecimiento permanente de la transferencia de cargas, en especial en San Antonio. El
desarrollo de Valparaiso, no ha Ilevado el mismo compas, desde luego, por encontrarse sus
obras desplazadas en el tiempo con respecto a la prioridad dada a aquel, aunque ya en
explotaci6n, lo que ha derivado parte de su carga usual a San Antonio en este ultimo tiempo,
durante las obras de reconstruccion del puerto de Valparaiso, carga que podria regresar a este
una vez regularizada su operaci6n, total o parcialmente.
Pese a la crisis, sin embargo, ambos puertos han progresado evidentemente, en forma
muy apreciable, aunque en diferente compas, por las razones expuestas.
En el caso de San Vicente, en los primeros afios de la operaci6n del nuevo sitio 1 (Ex
"Cero"), la sola disminuci6n de los dias nave a la gira signific6 una economfa real, del orden
de la inversi6n, en un plazo inferior a cuatro afios.
No es posible definir auin, por lo que se ha dicho sobre el desarrollo del proceso de
licitacion de los frentes de atraque y por no contarse por ello todavia con informaci6n estadistica
referencial, c6mo se desenvolvera el nuevo proceso de transferencia de cargas portuarias en el
pais, aunque aparece evidente que el mayor interes de las inversiones privadas se centrara, en
este proceso, en los puertos de Valparaiso y San Antonio. Una vez que sean conocidos los
resultados de las operaciones privadas, derivadas de la licitaci6n de frentes de atraque, sera
posible comenzar a medir rendimientos en el nuevo esquema y, tras el curso minimo de dos
anios, se podran avanzar perspectivas de resultados y estrategias relativas a operaciones futuras.
Para ese efecto los nuevos empresarios portuarios desarrollaran los respectivos Planes Maestros
y Calendarios Referenciales de Inversi6n, para mejorar la capacidad de transferencia y
almacenamiento de cargas, asi como los sistemas de servicio y gesti6n.
Valparaiso y San Antonio, tan afectados por el gran sismo de 1985, cuentan ya con
todos sus sitios, de nuevo en operaciones, con mejores condiciones de resistencia sismica y
profundidad de atraque, ademas de mayor superficie de explanadas, pavimentadas para acopio
y transito de contenedores. Por otra parte, terminado ya el proceso de licitaci6n de los frentes
de atraque en los tres puertos del Proyecto, los Planes Maestros y Calendarios de Inversi6n
oficializados, se puede prever que la operaci6n con el aporte de capitales privados y en especial
con aporte de tecnologias modernas, no tendra obstaculos para transferir la carga creciente



36
- 6 -
dentro del pr6ximo quinquenio, mas alla de lo previsto por el Proyecto.
Definida la licitaci6n de los puertos en la segunda semana de agosto, ha dado paso a
confiar en el rapido logro de claros beneficios para el pais, a traves de un descenso de a lo
menos el 30% en las tarifas, del desarrollo de una efectiva competencia entre los puertos, de una
real disminuci6n en los tiempos de espera de las naves en puerto y de una mayor eficiencia en
la transferencia de cargas, como resultado del empleo del sistema monooperador, con superior
calidad del servicio. Por otra parte, el proceso indicado ha permitido al Estado obtener un
beneficio fiscal, producto de la licitaci6n de los tres puertos, ascendente a los US$294 millones.
Ademas, las empresas o consorcios privados licitantes, segun se desprende del resultado del
proceso aludido, efectuaran inversiones en superestructura y equipamiento, ascendentes en
conjunto a mas de US$254 millones en el periodo de la concesi6n, segun el plazo pactado en
cada caso.
E.- DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
A diciembre de 1998 se completaron 17 Misiones del Banco Mundial a Chile, en
relaci6n con el Proyecto, incluyendo dos preliminares, manteniendose permanentemente una
efectiva coordinaci6n con la DOP y el conocimiento del avance de las obras.
Respecto de los desembolsos, 6stos siempre fueron oportunos, hasta la modificaci6n del
monto total del Prestamo que, de 71 millones de dMlares, se redujo a 26,29 millones de d6lares
(24 de julio, 1997), con acuerdo del Banco y del gobierno chileno. Esta disminuci6n fue
adoptada por el gobierno, quien estim6 tener capacidad financiera suficiente para proseguir con
el Proyecto sin comprometer un mayor endeudamiento fiscal, dada la existencia adecuada de
divisas, las que no era conveniente incrementar. Con ello se puso fin al tramite de desembolsos.
F.- DESEMPENO DE LA PRESTATARIA
A partir de la experiencia en el control de la construcci6n de obras de infraestructura
portuaria y maritima, asi como de la usual coordinaci6n con los diferentes organismos
relacionados con estas, se puede aseverar que el desempefio de la prestataria ha sido tambien
efectivo, lo que ha contribuido a un buen resultado en la realizaci6n del Programa, aunque hubo
algunos proyectos que, por diversas razones, no se materializaron, como los relativos a
terminales de transbordadores en la Decima Regi6n, terminales terrestres, etc. Los procesos de
licitaci6n de obras, estudios y asesorias siempre fueron bien Ilevados, con plena transparencia,
asi como la realizaci6n de los respectivos contratos. Ciertamente ha habido algunos problemas
en algunos, de orden tecnico y administrativo, pero ello no ha implicado el fracaso de las obras.
La informaci6n hacia el Banco Mundial y otros organismos dentro del pais, por otra



37
- 7 -
parte, se cifn6 siempre a un programa oportuno y eficiente, sin observaciones trascendentes.
G.- EVALUACION DE RESULTADOS
Las obras contratadas en San Antonio primero y en Valparaiso despues, han tenido
resultados altamente positivos en el primer caso, como ya se sefnal6. En Valparaiso, es aun
muy reciente el termino de las obras, como para emitir una opinion optimista de resultados.
La caracteristica fundamental, en estas obras, aparte de la capacidad de resistencia antisismica,
es la de contar con una mayor profundidad de dos metros respecto de las profundidades iniciales
en seis sitios (en el Sitio N3 de San Antonio, supera los cinco metros de mayor profundidad).
Las mayores superficies pavimentadas en explanadas en ambos puertos apuntan a mayores
capacidades y rendimientos para el manejo de carga contenedorizada, de acuerdo con las
tendencias modemas. En el caso de San Vicente, como ya se dijo, los resultados del proyecto
de desarrollo portuario son satisfactorios y cumplen holgadamente la planificacion hacia el ano
2.000, lo que se aprecia a traves de las cifras estadisticas alcanzadas a diciembre de 1998, pese
a la crisis asiatica y al proceso de grandes cambios derivados del nuevo sistema portuario
estatal impulsado por la ley de modernizaci6n de puertos que, como se ha sefialado, atraves6
un largo y dificultoso proceso administrativo y judicial, por diversos recursos interpuestos por
sectores privados. En el puerto de San Vicente ademas, debe destacarse que solamente por el
concepto de eliminaci6n de dias nave a la gira, la inversion destinada a la construcci6n del ex
Sitio Cero se recuper6 en un plazo inferior a cuatro aiios. A pesar de los obstaculos, en los tres
puertos los resultados son muy positivos y prometen ser mejores, aun cuando, en definitiva,
los capitales privados permitan mejores rendimientos, sin necesidad de recurrir a mayores
inversiones en infraestructura, la que se considera suficiente frente a la actual demanda y a las
posibilidades de aplicaci6n de teenologias modernas que impulsaran mayores rendimientos en
las operaciones portuarias de transferencia de carga, en el futuro inmediato.
Podria pensarse que la inclusi6n de la reparaci6n del Muelle Bar6n, en Valparaiso, no
respondi6 a las expectativas del Proyecto; sin embargo, debe pensarse que su incorporaci6n al
programa fue una estrategia destinada a suplir la falta de cada uno de los sitios (1 a 3), que iban
a estar sucesivamente fuera de servicio a causa de su reconstrucci6n, en una estructura que si
bien es desabrigada, no impide ser ocupada como gran apoyo en los meses de mayor demanda
(verano), para los embarques de fruta de exportaci6n, que no requieren la misma precisi6n del
manejo de las grias que transfieren contenedores.
En relaci6n con los estudios contratados incluidos en el Proyecto, cabe sefialar que
aquellos con incidencia directa en obras han tenido o tendran una cabal incorporacion a estas.
Otros, como los relativos al ambiente y a la pesca, han incidido fuertemente en estos programas
y en su desarrollo a futuro. Otros se han retirado del programa, como el terminal para
transbordadores en laX Regi6n, y otros han sido eliminados, para dejar su realizaci6n en manos
del sector privado, como el de Terminales Intermodales, por ejemplo.



38
- 8 -
Si bien el desarrollo de los programas de accesos a los puertos, que no estan financiados
por este Convenio, ha sido lento, se puede sefialar que aun la red es suficiente, por lo que no ha
perjudicado el acceso y la salida de cargas; los atochamientos han derivado, mas bien, de la
escasa disponibilidad de dreas libres interiores en los puertos y del proceso l6gico de
reconstrucci6n y habilitaci6n de estas explanadas.
H.- OPERACIONES FUTURAS
Con el fundamental cambio experimentado por los puertos estatales como consecuencia
de la aplicaci6n de la ley 19.542, que Ileva la operaci6n parcial o total de los puertos a ser
ejercida por empresas privadas, el esquema de financiamiento fiscal para los puertos estatales
desaparece completamente. Ello implica, al menos por ahora, que no habra nuevos convenios
con el BIRF u otra entidad internacional para el desarrollo de los puertos estatales chilenos, a
menos que se establezcan a traves de convenios entre el Banco y los empresarios privados,
asociados estos uiltimos o mediante representaci6n de un organismo ad hoc, aceptado por el
BIRF, materia que este Ministerio desconoce. Sin embargo, como quedan frentes de atraque
que no han entrado, o no entraran en el programa de licitaciones iniciado por la ley 19.542,
podra surgir a futuro un programa que pudiera preocuparse de la necesidad de mejorar, reparar
o arnpliar esa infraestructura no concedida, que continua siendo estatal y operada por
organismos estatales aut6nomos, las empresas portuarias correspondientes. Igualmente, si las
condiciones se dieran podria plantearse un programa de mejoramiento o modernizaci6n de la
vialidad de accesos a los puertos
I.- LECCIONES CLAVES
Ya antes del terremoto existia la preocupaci6n por el ritmo creciente de la demanda
portuaria. Sin embargo, la planificaci6n hacia la construcci6n de nueva infraestructura no
adoptaba una actitud decidida, ni au:n en lo relativo a sus disefios. En este aspecto, la lecci6n
entregada por la Naturaleza va directarnente hacia la necesidad de prever con mayor oportunidad
y dinamica la conveniencia de contar oportunamente con disenfos y programas "a punto", en
adelanto a estas contingencias naturales, que pueden afectar seriamente el desarrollo econ6mico
de un pais reconocidamente muy sismico. La tardanza en obtenerse una reaccion para dar
comienzo a los trabajos se estima que esta concentrada en formar comisiones interministeriales,
tomar decisiones relativas a los programas por desarrollar, sus tramites correspondientes,
obtener el financiamiento de disefios y obras y elaborar los disefios.
En el caso de las obras del Proyecto, la demora en su inicio se debi6 en parte a la
determinaci6n del gobierno de la 6poca (1985) de no iniciar obras mientras no estuviese
demostrada su magnitud y rentabilidad.



39
-9-
Lo dicho implica, desde luego, una adecuada programacion acerca de una acuciosa
prospecci6n goetecnica en las areas  portuarias  pertinentes, previsibles de requerir
remodelaci6n o ampliaci6n, tanto como de un concepto actualizado sobre las solicitaciones de
naves y equipos, de modernos disefios, sobre las infraestructuras portuarias. Asi, los disefios
Ilevados a la practica enfrentaran menos y menores riesgos de cambios, contratiempos y ajustes
o correcciones durante su ejecuci6n.
Tambien se ha adquirido la experiencia, durante el control de la ejecuci6n de obras,
relativa a que es de mucha relevancia la informaci6n oportuna y completa, distribuida a todo
nivel. Esto permite la elaboraci6n de informes exactos, formulados a tiempo, para una correcta
evaluaci6n de resultados y estimaci6n de perspectivas a futuro, lo que ya es perfectamente
factible dada la gran importancia que ha dado el MOP a los servicios de comunicaci6n y
difusi6n, en una red electronica y telef6nica moderna y altamente eficiente, asi como
fundamentalmente a los programas de capacitaci6n, los que tambien han estado presentes en
este Programa.
Por otra parte, finalmente, el desarrollo de este ha entregado una valiosa experiencia por
la coordinaci6n mantenida tanto con el Banco Mundial como con los organismos nacionales
como, por ejemplo, la Contraloria General de la Repulblica y el Ministerio de Hacienda, aparte
de las autoridades portuarias respectivas, por constituir este un primer programa apoyado por
el BIRE, en Chile, en relaci6n con obras referidas a puertos.
Santiago, 10 de diciembre de 1999.
resumen



