Doe
The Worl
FOR OFFICIAL      __
Repwt No. 9846-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Departnent IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori tio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (Ch$)
l US$ - 350.0 Ch$ (March 31, 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIAWE     -    Interaierican Course for the Preparation and Evaluation of
Projects
CINTRA    -    Commission for Investment Plannir.g in Transport Infrastructure
CPI       -    Cargo Performance Index
CORPO     -    Corporation for Promotion of Production
DIRECTEMAR-    Directorate of Maritime Territory and Merchant Marine
DNV       -    National Highway Directorate
DOP       -    Directorate of Port Works
EFE       -    Railway Company
EA        -    Environmental Assessment
EMPORCHI  -    Chilean Ports Enterprise
ESTRAVAL  -    Strategic Study of Greater Valparaiso
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FCL       -    Full Container Load
HDM       -    Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IIC       -    Interministerial Infrastructure Committee
IPC       -    Interministerial Port Commission
IPCU      -    Interministerial Project Coordination Unit
JICA      -    Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LCL       -    Lae than Container Load
ME        -    Ministry of Economy
MIDEPLAN  -    Ministry of Planning and Coordination
MINTRATEL -    Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
MINVU     -    Ministry of Housing and Urbanization
MOP       -    Ministry of Public Works
NAEP      -    National Agency of Environmental Protection, Denmark
PCU       -    Project Control Unit
SECTRA    -    Executive Secretary of IIC
TEU       -    Twenty Foot Equivalent Units



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONIY
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAE REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AN) PROJECT SUMMARY ................... .......... ....... o   - iii
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Overview    ... *.   ... .. .  .......... ......  ..................  1
B.  Transport Sector Reform of the 19809 .............             3
C.  Issues in the Port Subsector .................... ......       5
D.  Public Port "lector Expenditure Program ..................    8
E.  Previous Bank Lending Experience in the Transport Sector.    9
II.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Origin and Objectives ...........................  12
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ...... .............. so.  13
C.  Project Description .........so......to........ #  13
D. Project Cost and Financing .............................       17
E. Economic Evaluation ........... ....... 0...... *....... ...s.   19
F.  Financial Aspects ......      .................................    21
G.  Project Risks                                           ...  23
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A.  Status of Preparation ..... ............... ..    ....... .   23
B.  Responsibilities of Agencies Involved ...............  ....  24
C.  Project Execution .......................................   25
D.  Project Implementation Aspects ...........................    25
E.  Procurement and Consultancy Services       ....................   26
F. Disbursements .....  ......... .. .                     ..... .  29
G.  Special Account and Auditing ............................   29
H.  Environmental Impact ........ .......   30
I.  Project Monitoring and Semiannual Consultations ..........    30
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................   30
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions
to Chile on March 4 to 27, and June 24 to July 10, 1991.  The missions were
composed by Mr. Raul Auzmendi, Sr. Economist (Mission Leader), Mr. Gustavo Unda,
Sr. Port Engineer, Ms. Marta Rios, Sr. Financial Analyst and Me. Marta Molares,
Sr. Counsel. The report was prepared under the general direction of Mr. Ping-
Cheung Loh, Director LA4DR and Mr. Alain Thys, Chief LA4IE. Mr. Robert Panfil,
LA2IE, acted as the Peer Reviewer.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.1:     EMPORCHI and Non-EMPORCHI Foreign Trade Port Traffic
Table 1.2s     EMPORCHI Ports Total Traffic
Table 1.3s     1992-95 Public Port Expenditure Program
Table 2.1s     Detailed Coot Estimates
Table 2.2s     Total Annual Expenditures (US$)
Table 2.3s     Total Annual Expenditures (Ch$)
Table 2.4:     EMPORCHI Project Components
Table 2.5:     Financing Plan
Table 3.1:     Estimated Schedule of Disbureements of Bank Financing
CHART:    1.   Total Port Traffic
2.   Organization of DOP (MOP)
3.   Organization of EMPORCHI
4.   Organigram of Project Administration
5.   Project Implementation Schedule
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   The Transport Sector
2.   Current and Future Traffic in Project Ports
3.  Economic and Environmental Uligibility Criteria for Sectoral Components
(Part B)
4.  Detailed Project Description
5.  Economic Evaluation of Port Components
6.   Financial Analysis of EMPORCHI
7.   Technical Assistance and Training Program
8.   Port Operations
9.   Port Environment Improvement - Plan of Action
10. Project File
MAPS
1. IBRD - 23102 Transport System
2. IBRD - 23103 Valparaiso Port Reconstruction
3. IBRD - 23104 Sen Antonio Port Reconstruction
4. IBRD - 23105 San Vicente Port Extension



nusPOT nunuoas  m
LOA  AD PRoJEC  SJIIR
2orKrgyrt            Republic of Chile.
Exfeulina Asneny;  MKnitry of Public Work. (MOP).
Main Iennficgars,   EMPORCEI for all port component.
AmguA&s              US$ 71.0 million equivalent.
T rmes               Repayment in 17 year., Including 5 years of grace, at the
Rank's standard variable rate.
Prolect
Maenki.tlu           The main objective. of the project are to: (a) ensure the
provision of port facilities at San Vicente, San Antonio and
Valparaico, to handlo forecast traffic efficiently, including
seasonal peak., up to the year 20001 (b) increase efficiency
In port activities by Improving port accesses, encouraging the
utilization of advanced container-handling technologies,
redesigning port layoute, establishing a transparent and
rational cost-based port tariff system, monitoring and
lmproving environmental conditions at the project ports,
strengthening the Institutional and regulatory framework of
fishing activities in ports, and developing inland in:ermodal
terminals (a) strengthen the Institutional set-up of the
Infrastructure sector, including the coordination between
private and public port investments; and (d) ensure provision
of other high priority, port-related investments within a
sectoral conts.t.
frgijt
2203&X2112D,         The proposed project includes two parts.  Part A consists of
the MOP's high priority 1992-95 Port Investment Program,
complemented by private sector investments; and Part B, within
a sectoral context, comprises high-priority port-related
investentts, supported by an Indicative i'vestment program and
selected In accordance with sub-component eligibility criteria
satisfactory  to  the  Bank.    Part  A  components  are:  (a)
reconstruction of earthquake-damaged container and general
cargo bertha at San Antonio and Valparaiso, and remodelling and
expanding related backup areas; (b) construction of a new berth
at the highly congested port of Son Vicente; (c) rehabilitation
of the Baron berth at Valparaiso; (d) technical assistance for
institutionalt engineering and other project-related studies;
and  (a)  training.    Part  B  components  would  comprise
construction of fishing jetties, port access facilities, and
construction of ilaand torminale. Retroactive financing, up
to $7.1 million for expenditures incurred after March 4, 1991,
io envisaged complying with relevant Bank rules. An EA was



- ii -
prepared and concluded that the project would bring no adverse
environmental imp&ct.
Benofitst            Benefit, will be generated by the reduction of costs resulting
froms (a) minimizing truck- and ship-waiting time; (b)
avuidance of costs which would happen without the project with
the eventual occurrence of a major earthquake; (c) increasing
efficiency; and (d) improving management and technology.
Risks:               Since this is the first Bank operation in the port subsector
and there would be several Government agencies involved, there
is some risk of delays.  This will be addressed by timely
supervision, the coordination to be provided by the existing
Interministerial Project Coordination Unit and the com  lete
staffing of the Project Control Unit before Loan effectiveness.
All port components would have aseismic design to prevent
earthquake damage.
Estimated Proiect Costs by Proaremt
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign       Total 1/
Part 
San Vicente                                    2.1            4.4          6.5
San Antonio                                   12.8           31.1         43.9
Valparaiso                                     8.4           24.5         32.9
Technical Assistance                            -             5.7          5.7
Training                                         -            0.5          0.5
Subtotal: Part A                              23.3           66.2         89.5
Part B
High-priority, Port-related Investments         4.9            9.4         14.4
Total Base Cost (March 1991 prices)           28 2           756         103.9
Physical Contingencies                         4.0           11.1         15.1
Price Contingencies                            4.2           11.7         15.9
Total Proiect Cost (excluding
taxes and duties)                   3695                      134.8
Taxes and Duties                              25.3             -          25.3
Total Prolect Cost (including
taxes and duties)                   61.8          98.4        160.1
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



- iii -
Finan2ing ZlAns
USt Million                 2
Local           Foreia3         Toa   Cost"
Shgring
Proposad IBRD loan                                    71.0            71.0     52.7
Government                           34.2              6.7            40.d     30.2
Private Sector                        2.3            20.7             23.0      17.1
Total linsacina                      36.5              98.4           134.8   100.0
EstiMated Disbursements (in USS million):
Bank FY:              92      93     94      95     96      97     UA      99
Annual:              13.4   19.0   12.0   10.0    9.0    5.0    2.0    0.6
Cumulative:          13.4   32.4   44.4   54.4   63.4   68.4   70.4   71.0
Rate of Returr       Port works of Part A (772 of total project cost) were oubject
to full economic evaluation, resulting in an average ERR of 462
(from 182 to 712 for individual components). Part B components
(142 of total project cost) will be evaluated during project
implementation.    Technical  Assistance  and  Training  (the
remaining 92) is not evaluated given the special nature of
these expenses.
j/   Taxe and duties amounting to US$19.2 million equivalent, to be borne
and collected by the Government, are excluded; also, taxes and duties
for US$6.1 million to be paid by the private sector are excluded.



I =  IRMNSfOLT  ?CTOR
A. Ovanjgr
1.01      Thg AconqW.  In the mid 1980s, the Chiloan economy, coming out of a
deep recession, underwent a Bank-supported structural adjustment program, which
had as an objective the recovery of economic activity and employment, coupled
with  gradual  reduction  of  the  external  debt  burden.    The  successful
implementation of the program and falling world oil prices, led to the expansion
of the economy in 1986 and 1987, with GDP growing by 5.72 in both years.
Overall, in the five-yaar period 1984-88, the Chilean economy averaged a growth
rate of 5.52, infl*tion was reduced from 232 to 132 and unemployment declined
sharply, reaching 6.62 of the labor force by the end of 1988.  During 1989,
growth accoleratod to 102 and the official unemployment rate declined further to
52.  However, the further acceleration in economic activity exacted a cost.
Inflation reversed its 1988 downward trend, with consumer pricea accelerating
from an an.aual 12.71 in December 1988 to 21.4Z at yoar-end 1989.
1.02      During 1990, Chile underwent another signzficant adjustment effort
aimed at addressing the fiscal Imbalance that had emerged in 1989 owing to the
overheating of the economy, and the jump in international petroleum prices during
the second half of 1990. In addition, there were significant changes in economic
management: (a) a new administration was sworn-in in March 1990 with a new
economic  team;  and  (b)  the  Central  Bank  became  autonomous.    The  new
Administration has underscored its intent to maintain the ongoing overall
economic policy framework, i.oe, endorsing the concept of an open, market-
oriented economy.  In this contoxt, economic results, and more importantly,
overall economic management in 1990, were broadly satisfactory. The adjustment
effort resulted in a fall in GDP growth from 102 in 1989 to 2.12 in 1990.
Although inflation increased to 27.32 in 1990, international reserves nearly
doubled and inve3tment rmained satisfactory. Economic growth is expected to
accelerate in 1991 to an annual rate of between 42 and 5S while inflation would
fall to around 202. At the same time, the fiscal budget is projected to be
balanced.  The pick-up in economic growth in 1991 will be accompanied by an
increase in transport demand. For the medium term, economic growth in Chile is
projected to remain strong at an average annual GDP rate of 4.52.
1.03      Transoort Scope and Demand.  Chile covers an area of about 757,000
km2.  It comprises a narrow strip of land between the Andes and the Pacific
Ocean, extending some 4,300 km in the direction N-S and its width varies from a
minimum of 90 km to a maximum of 400 km. The population was estimated at 13
million in 1989, about 702 of whom live in a narrow area about 600 km long
(between the rivers Aconcagua and Bio-Bio) and the country's widt'. in this
stretch. In 1987, the urtan population represented 85S of the total population,
one of the highest in the world. Chile's population is expected to grow in the
next decade at an annual rate of 1.52, and the urban population at 1.732 per
year. Chile is located far from the world's main traffic generators.
1.04      Transport demand has kept pace with economic development in the
country. During the period 1985-90, the general trend has been a growth of about
3.5-42 per year for freight and 52 per year for passengers.  In line with
worldwide trends, and despite the country's shape and proximity to ths sea, the
transport system is dominated by road transport, which carries about two-thirds
of domestic freight, railways hauling around one-fifth, coaetal shipping and oil



pipeline. combined carrying about one-tenth, and air transport handling less than
1S. Some 95Z of international trade in tone is seaborne (some 90S of exports and
abo.t 801 of imports by value). Passenger traffic is carried mainly by bus,
although there is some rail service.
1.05      To meet the transport demand, the country has developed an extensive
transport network (Map IERD 23102) consisting of 79,000.km of roads, of which
almo&. 14Z are pavoi; 6,900 km of railway t:'ack, about 581 of which is broad
gauge (1.676 metor), and the rest is narrow gauge (one moter); eleven major
general cargo, state-owned seaports and a large number of specialized and private
general cargo portst a 622 km network of pipelines; and about 21 commercial
airport., of which seven are used for international flights. The transport system
is operated by a large, priAately-owned fleet of trucks and buses; a publicly-
owned rseilwayl a mix of oublic and private oceangoing and coastal shipping
companies; and a number of privately-owned airlines of which three provide
international service.
1.06      With more than 5,000 km of coastline, Chile has more than 70 port
installations of which 26 are commercial ports involved in international traffic.
In 1990, these ports handled some 28.6 million tons of international traffic, 39Z
of which was handled by the eleven publicly-owned ports under the jurisdiction
of the Chilean Ports Enterprise (EMPORCHI) and the balance by 15 private berths
and piers (Tables 1.1 and 1.2). The trend of international traffic in the 1980.
has been rather flat at around 17 million tons until 1985, followed by a vigorous
increase of about 14.5Z p.a. onwards (Chart 1). National coastal traffic showed
a similar trend during the 1980s, reaching about 9.2 million tons in 1989.
During the same period, container traffic had a significant increase of almost
fivefold, reaching in 1989 a value of over 2.1 million tons in about 177,000
containers (124,000 loaded and 53,000 empties). Container traffic is moved mainly
through the EMPORCHI ports, of which Valparaiso accounts for about 601. Traffic
is expected to continue growing at a high rate in the foreseeable future.  A
description of each transport mode is provided in Annex 1 of this report, and
Annex 2 presents expected port traffic forecasts.
1.07      Transport policymaking in Chile is officially the task of the Ministry
of Transport and Telecommunications (MINTRATEL); the dinistry of Public Works
(MOP) does road planning and is in charge of all transport infrastructure works,
except urban.    The  Ministry  of  Housing  and  Urbanization  (MINVU)  bears
responsibility for the urban road network nation-wide except for a central
section in the city of Santiago.  The Ministry of Planning and Coordination
(MIDEPLAN) updates a rolling three-year plan every year, and determines who-her
proposed transport investments are justified according to its guidelines as well
as whether ttkey fit into the broader planning framework.
1.08      The Government agency responsible for public port rehabilitation and
construction is the Directorate of Port Works (DOP) under the MOP.   This
directorato is an efficient and experienced agency, with a wall defined structure
and is adequately staffed to fulfill the functions it is normally responsible
for. However, it will require external support through consulting services to
cope with oncoming increases in its workload.  DOP is headed by a national
director, assisted by an advisory group, and has four departments (studies,
planning and coordination, construction, and equipment) and one administrative



subdepartment in the central office in Santiago. This set-up is complemented by
eight Regional Directorates directly respunoible for all field work. Details of
the organization are shown in Chart 2. The total staff consists of 123 employees
as follows: one National Director, nine managers, forty-eight professionals,
twonty-five technicians, and forty administrative clerks,
B. Trgnstort Sector Reform of the 1980s
1.09      'he traneport osctor underwent considerable restructuring in line with
the strongly market-oriented transport strategy pursued by the count%y in the
last decade. Policy cha.gSes included: (a) eliminating transport sector subsidies;
(b) charging private air, land, and sea transport for the use of public
infrastructure facilities; (c) permitting each transport mode to set its own
tariffs, design its services, And develop its own policies; (d) liberalizing
access to the road transport industry; (a) encouraging privato sector
participation for investments and operations in ports, airlines, railways and
urban transport; and (f) considering all transport modes equal for purposes of
taxation. As a recult of these changes, the country has developed an adequate
intermodal framework to achieve optimum resource allocation.
1.10      In part4cular, in the 1980s the Chilean ports system underwent a major
institutional restructuring based primarily on transferring to the private sector
the operation of public ports, with the exception of wharfage and stor&3e. This
significantly improved public port efficiency during the 1981-89 period,
achieving increases ranging from 1002 to 2002 in the number of tons
loaded/unloaded of the main products per berthed ship-day, with port cost savings
estimated at about US$90 million in 1989, as compared to what would have been
required in 1981 for moving the same volume. As a result, in the 1980s, Chilean
ports were able to maintain reasonable operating conditions even with
considerable growth in the volume of cargo and without an increase in
infrastructure, some of which was destroyed or seriously damaged by the 1985
earthquake. But the institutional improvements and technological changes now have
reached a limit where extra port capacity in the system is badly needed.
1.11      The modernization of Chile's ports was based on Law No. 18,032 and
18,042, borh enacted in late 1981.  Also, Lad No. 18,040 of December 1981
modified the Customs Ordinance to simplify port procedures, contributing to a
general improvement in the subsector. Law 18,032 specifically abolished the
system of registration with maritime workers' unions: any worker who met the
minimum requirements of physical fitness was authorized to work in the ports on
board vessels and on the docks. Such people were issued a Port Worker's Permit.
Under this law, workers could establiah trade unions as well as professional
associations, but only the company un4_ s were authorized to hold negotiations.
To make these changes acceptable to the port workers, the Government paid the
equivalent of around US$40 million to compensate about 2,700 workers whose
privileges were foregone. Also in 1981, two resolutions were passed (Roes. 12600
and 360), which established three 7.5-hour shifts for all workers in all ports
of the nation. Hence, po-ts could be operational for 22.5 hours a day instead
of 13 hours, as was the case before. The first article of Law 18,042 abolished
the monopoly that the public enterprise, EMPORCHI, had enjoyed over dock work
(i.e., the area between crane hook and warehouse) and authorized the private
sector to carry out such work. The other articles of that law established the



- 4 -
basis for creating a holdiaig-type National Ports Corporation that would own
Limited Liability Authorities (Sociesdads Anonimas) to be created in each of the
11 ports under EMPORCHI. An Interminittrial Commiasion was created to deal with
the implementation of those articles; however, the commission could not arrive
at a consensus, so the application of Law 18,042, with the exception of the first
article, was suspended.  Finally, Law No. 18,966 of 1990 abolished Law No.
18,042, establishing that the sector would continue to be ruled by the original
Law that created EMPORCHI (No. 290 of 1960), modified, however, to es;clude
EMPORCHI from stevedoring and nargo handling functions, which would remain in
private hands.
1.12      There are several agencies involved in the planning process for port
infrastructure.    Their  actions  are  coordinated  by  an  Interministerial
Infrastructure Committee (IIC), presided over by the Minister of Public Works5
in addition,  tLere is an executive Interministerial Port Commi-n:ion (IPC)
responsible for operational and technical matters of port projects.   This
Commission, however, plays an adv ory role and depends on existing agencies to
carry out its functions. This interministerial set-up provides an adequate forum
within which to discuss and reach consensus on major decisions in the sector.
The private sector does not formally participate in the port planning process,
although it influences it, especially during the last decade, through the
evaluation and execution of specific private port investments.  The Government
encourages maximum private participation for expansion of port capacity,
purposely limiting its own participation to rehabilitation and maintenance.
State investments for new construction are made only when private initiative does
not materialize or for national security reasons.
1.13      As a result of these reforms, the role of the private sector has been
and will continue to be very important for the development and operation of the
port system. The 15 privately owned ports consist of termLnahl constructed by
mining or oil companies or by other private interests and handle about 602 of the
country's foreign trade measured in tons. However, in value terms its share is
lower, because EMPORCHI handles almost 901 of all general cargo in the country,
even though non-EMPORCHI ports are also free to handle third-party traffic. But,
except in the Concepcion area, where the private port of Lirquen is growing
rapidly, the scope for handling third-party traffic by private ports is limited.
Moreover, most of the private port facilitios are sopecialized terminals handling
low- to medium-value bulk cargo.
1.14      In sum, as a result of these reforms, all EMPORCHI ports are operated
by private stevedoring companies um.der concession contracts, except for wharfage
and storage, which remain under EMPORC!T's responsibility All cargo handling
equipment as well as one of the gantry cranes in Valparaiso are provided by
private operators. The rest of the gantry cranes are owned by EMPORCHI, but have
been transferred to private operators under lease agreements. RMPORCHI, which
retains ownersh;.p over port infrastructure, is also responsible for cooruinating
the activities of the vario s users of the port area.
1.15      EMPORCHI is a well managed organization, with a suitable mix of staff,
and adequately fulfills the role it is expected to play. EMPORCHI's headquarters
are located in Valparaiso, with local offices at each of its ports. It is headed
by a national director appointed by the President of the Republic. The director



- 5 -
is re3ponsible for, inter alla, executing the Government's public ports policy,
coordinating the activities of the ports with those of other port-related
transport sectors,  rehabilitating and maintaining port  infrastructure,  and
establishing and efficiently managing the port authority so it can fulfill its
duties.  Under the entity's present organization (Chart 3), the director is
asaisted by five advisory departments (planning, controllers, legal, systems, and
secretary) and by six line departments responsible for the functions of
markot±ng, engineering, special projects, financ-, perscnnel, and projects and
contracts.  Each EMPORCHI port has its own director, also ropor.ing to the
national director, who is responsible for operational, technical, financial, and
personnel functions at the local level. In particular, maintenance of EMPORCHI
port facilities is adequately carried out and sufficient resources are allocated
every year for that purpose.   Although INPORCHI  is an autonomous public
enterprise and receives no budgetary support from the Government, in managing its
finances it must abide by the rules and regulation. imposeod by the Finance
Ministry to all autonomous public enterprises:   its annual operational and
investment budgets are reviewed by rho Finance Ministry prior to their execution,
and its net income (after tax and any other pre-approved cash outflows) must be
transferred to the national budget each year. EDPORCHI has a highly developed
and computerized budgeting and accounting systems.  Apart from the one-year
operational and investment budgets that are submitted to the Government every
year, the entity annually updates rolling, long-term (generally 5-year)
investment and financial plans, and capital investments; other important business
decisions are subject to comprehensive economic and financial scrutiny prior to
their inclusion in the entity's plans.
C. lises in the Pgrt Subseclor
1.16      Despite the considerable progr-ei  to date, a few issues remain. These
include:   (a) re±nforcing the coordination between private and public port
investments; (b) strengthening the institutional and regulatory frsmework for the
development of fishing activities in the ports; (c) implmenting measures to
improve environmental port conditions; (d) improving port land access; (e)
restructuring port tariffs a*nd (f) relocation of certain port activities outside
the port areas.
1.17      Reinforcina  the  Coordination  between  Private  and  Public  Port
Investments. The role of the private sector has been very Important in the
development of existing port infrastructure, and Its participation is expected
to be even more significant in the immediate future for the following reasons:
(a) the deliberate policy of the present Government of encouraging maximum
private sector participatio.a in the port sector (para& 1.12); (b) the sizeable
expected increase in port traffic In the iedisate future (para. 1.06); and (c)
the high level of efficiency already achieved In the operation of the Chilean
ports (para. 1.10).   The Government is also concerned about the efficient
allocation of scarea natural resources, such as naturally-protected, deep-water
bays, which are potentially suitable for port development. Another important
matter is the required coordination of operations inside the ENPORCHI ports in
the event a private sector investment is made within thes ports. The Government
has appointed a comission to analyze this and reommend solutions through a
document under proparation entitled lBasid for a Policy of Private Sector
Participacion in the Provision of Port Infrastructure." The main objective of



- 6 -
the document is to establish adequate rules to encourage maximum private sector
participation within a suitable f-amework of competition, economic merits of
irvestment proposals, and adequate coordination with existing transport
infrastructure, environmental conditions, and related urban developments. The
commission has recommended that the Government establish transparent and stable
rules, including setting appropriate port tariffs, to clarify its future role in
the subsector, thus to give confidence to potential private investors.  The
Government plans to review the recommendations and establish a Sector
Coordination Actios Plan, in consultation with the Bank, to define the legal and
regulatory framework to be implemented by the end of 1992. At appraisal, it was
agreed with the Government that, in the event that a future private or public
sector port investment in the hinterland of the project ports is proposed before
the framework is established, the Bank will be informed and will participate in
its analysis, and its comments will be taken into account before the investment
is authorized.
1.18      Streagthenina Institutional Aspects of Fishint Activities In Ports.
Fishing activities in ports, performed by individuals, cooperatives, as well as
industrial companies, have substantially grown in recent years, registering in
San Antonio, for example, a doubling of the fish catch in the 1985-88 period.
This increase is the result of favorable market conditions and better
availability of financing by the Corporation for Promotion of Production (CORFO)
for fishing equipment. This strong development has taken place in a somewhat ad
hoc way, quite often in port areas already congested and with limited capacity
for expansion.   Increasing fishing activities have also contributed to a
deterioration of the environmental conditions of the ports. In addition, fishing
jetties have been generally built by MOP without appropriate guidelines for their
operation, maintenance, and cost recovery. The proposed project provides, as
part of the sectoral component, financing for fishing jetties. A requirement for
this financing will be the completion of a study on fishing development (also to
be financed by the proposed project) that will present recommendations and
actions on the issues mentioned above, and at appraisal it was agreed that a
policy framework and guidelines in this matter, acceptable to the Bank, will be
adopted before June 1993. MOP and the Subsecretariat of Fishing in the Ministry
of Economy (ME) are responsible for taking necessary actions to comply with this
goal.
1.19      Implementinz Measures to Imorove Environmental Conditions in Ports.
As part of project preparation, an Environmental Assessment (EA) of ports in
Region. V and VIII was carried  out by an international,  environmentally
specialized consulting firm, and preliminary results were published in February
1991. The main conclusion of the report is that no adverse environmental effects
are envisaged as a result of the construction and operation of Part A project
components; however, some environmental problems currently exist, as indicated
below, that require immediate attention. For Part B components, an EA should be
carried out for each potential project, and the results will support the decision
on project eligibility. The present environmental conditions of ports in the Vth
and VIlIth Regions varies, with major problems found in: (a) Valparaiso, where
the water quality in the port area is bad because of city sewage discharges,
causing high bacterial contamination in some placeos (b) San Antonio, where the
water is severely polluted by sewage bacteria originated at the San Antonio city
and the Maipo River, and the sediment in the port basin shows very high levels



of copper as a result of inappropriate bulk-handling systems used until recently;
and (c) San Vicente, where the inner part of the bay is heavily polluted with
orgartc matter and bacteria.  The report recommends several actions to improve
the existing environmental conditions, and the proposed project includes an
action-oriented study (Annex 7, B (vi)) to define in detail programs for
monitoring identified environmental problems and for implementing the required
measures. A Plan of Action (Annex 9) has been discussed and agreed in general
terms at appraisal with the Government concerning the environmental problems
related to the project ports. Sewage problems in Valparaiso are covered by the
Valparaiso Water II project (Loan 3331-CH).   The Port Environmental Plan of
Action, to be implemented under the proposed project, is generally addressed to:
(a) implement all necessary actions to ensure the ports are equipped to receive
and dispose of ships' waste; (b) establish the requirements to be complied with
by the fishing sector, to eliminate the waste associated with its activity; (c)
establish an environmental monitoring and evaluation program to support future
decisions; (d) evaluate risks of food contamination by dust (if any) generated
by copper concentrate handled at the port of San Antonio, installing monitoring
devices, and, if positive, implementing actions required; (e) prepare plans to
prevent and control possible environmental damage due to chemical and/or oil
spills in the ports; (f) implement other recommendations included in the above-
mentioned EA; (g) if warranted, dispose of dredging material farther than 12
miles from the coast or at a depth greater than 60 meters; and (h) based on
existing environmental standards to be compiled, prepare environmenta: standards
for ports. The Government plans to implement all these actions before December
1993. At negotiations, this Plan of Action was confirmed and agreed with the
Government.
1.20      Improvement of Port Land Access.   The interaction between a port and
any adjacent city commonly poses very difficult problems to resolve, with their
severity increasing at an accelerated pace over time, and solutions transcending
the  immediate  vicinity  of  the  port  itself.    Social,  urban,  economic,
environmental, land availability, touristic, and aesthetic considerations are
normally factors involved. Valparaiso is a good example, given the commercial
importance of the port, the enormous development of the city, and its unique
topography. A major concern is the land access to this port: at present, trucks
and railways operate in already congested urban corridors, and, for example,
trucks coming from the north drive along the coastal avenue of Vina del Mar, the
most famous beach of the country, and a major tourist attraction. This problem
is further aggravated because the most significant truck cargo from the north is
fruit whose peak period is February and March, which coincides with the tourist
season peak. In the context of a Strategic Study of Greater Valparaiso
(ESTRAVAL), the Commission for Investment Planning in Transport Infrastructure
(CINTRA) is analyzing various alternatives for road and rail access plans for
Valparaiso; also, a similar study is being carried out to improve c;..rtain
transport bottlenecks in the port of San Vicente. The studies of the two ports
are expected to produce preliminary evaluation of solutions by December 1992, and
at that time a Plan of Action on how to implement a Port Access Improvement
Program on those project ports will be presented to the Bank for comments, and
by December 1993, the Government will commence the implementation of the Plan.
The physical components of this program could be financed either under Part B
of this project or under the ongoing Road Sector Project (Loan 3120-CH).



1.21      Restructurina Port tariffs,  Blsed on the present structure of the
public ports system, IMPORCRI levies charges on wharfage, cargo transferred
through its ports, storage, and other services. Tariffs, however, do not reflect
the cost of providing the individual port services, and tariff levels are
generally modified according to the entity's general financial and operational
needs. In an effort to revise EMPORCHI'I tariff system to ensure that tariffs for
the different services rendered are promoting an officient resource allocation
in the port subsector, * port tariff study was carried out in 1988 by the
Catholic University of Chile, financed through loan 2504-CH. The study proposed
a structure bosed on two charges for the use of the port facilities--wharfage and
cargo transferred, which is baed on the cost of port infrastructure and the
degree of congestion at the different ports, as wvll as a separate tariff policy
for the rest of the limited port services provided by EMPORCHI, the latter based
strictly on market considerations, though ensuring coverage of direct and
economic costs.  Due to difficulties encountered in the application of the
consultant's model, the recomamndations were never implemented. The Government
has requested Bank support in completing and implementing the study; hence, loan
funds for this purpose are included in the proposed project. The new tariff
structure will sasure that each of the limited EMPORCHI port activities (para.
1.14) will at least cover short-term marginal costs, and will be utilized to
regulate private ports which are considered to operate under monopolistic
conditions.  During negotiations, agreement was reached that the new tariff
systems will be implemented in EMPORCHI's ports before December 1993.
1.22       R    aligS Outside the Port Area  of Certain Port Activities. At
present, there are som activities performed inside the port that could
conceivably be done outside, with the subsequent advantage of freeing some
valuable areas that could then be used for other port activities, e.g., customs
inspection of containers and agricultural export fruit inspections. Concerning
the former, it ts necessary to distinguish between container shipments with only
one owner of the cargo, or what is called Full Container Load (FCL), which is the
most common case, and container shipments owned by more than one interested
party, known as Le  than Container Load (LCL).  Regulations concerning the
location to perform custom Inspections (inside or outside the port area) are more
flexible for FCL containers. Currently, about 902 of the container traffic in
Chile is handled FCL, and no major varlations in the share are expected in the
future; consequently, customs regulations adversely affect only 10% of the
container traffic. Attempts have been made to liberalize further the system by
permitting custom inspections of LCL outside the port of Valparaiso in a limited
area in the vicinity of the clty--a system that is now under scrutiny. Related
to the overall concept, the proposed project includes a study of inland
intermodal terminals where the custom  issue would be analyzed.  As for the
inspection of fruit exports, well advanced discussions between Chilean exporters
and foreign fruit lmporters are being carried out in the interest of moving this
activity away from the ports. It Is purely a decision between two private groups,
and there are no Government regulations that impede this relocation.
D. Publig Port Soctor Exuendituro Proaram
1.23       Investment, operating, and administrative expenditures in the port
subsector are Incurred by the public as well as the private sector, with an



- 9 -
expected increase in participation by the latter in light of current Government
policy  (para.  1.12).    Obviously,  only  information  on  the  public  sector
expenditure program is available;  and even this is subject to significant
revision in line with the evolution of pLivate investments.
1.24      The MOP's 1992/95 public port expenditure program provides for the
reconstruction of the capacity lost in the ports of Valparaiso and San Antonio
as a result of the 1985 earthquake, the rehabilitation of the Baron berth at
Valparaiso, and the construction of a new general cargo berth at San Vicente.
This program would be partially financed by the proposed project and encompasses
high priority port projects, as analyzed in Chapter II.   The rest of the
expenditure program includes maintenance, replacement, rehabilitation, and minor
works in the ports of the EMPORCHI system, as shown in Table 1.3.
1.25      The overall size of the program,  including the proposed project
components for the period 1992-95 is the equivalent of about US$90.7 million (the
project components represent 572) or about US$22.7 million a year.  This is
deemed appropriate, considering the increasing port maintenance needs as a result
of the aging of port infrastructure, recent earthquake damage, and current and
future demands.  Also, the average annual amount excluding the proposed project
is a1lout US$10.0 million, consistent with the money spent on similar works during
the period 1984-91, which amounted to about US$11 million per year. The total
amount is adequately spread among the ports of the system, and every project is
subject to a detailed economic feasibility analysis and priority ranking before
approving its execution.  Moreover, the size of each project, excluding the
proposed project, is relatively small, on the order of US$1.0 million to US$2.0
million at most (Table 1.3). The expenditure program is in line with port needs
and consistent with the Government policy on port investments. At appraisal,
agreement was reached whereby during the semi-annual consultation meetings, the
Government would review the MOP annual investment program with the Bank;
specifically, before budget finalization, the Government would consult with the
Bank on any proposed new investment project greater than US$5.0 million.
1.26      The proposed project will also include a complementary investment
program for port-related subcomponents that fall outside EMPORCHI's competence
(para. 2.02) but are relevant to port operations. These would include fishery
jetties, intermodal inland terminals, port and inland terminal facilities, and
acquisition of equipment or materials.   The indicative investment program
required will be of the order of US$43.6 million, 67Z of which is expected to be
provided by the private sector. The public components will be executed by MOP
through its technical agencies.
E. Previous Bank Lendina Exnerience in the Transport Sector
1.27      The Bank has assisted Chile in the road sector since 1961.  To date
six loans and a credit, totaling about US$583 million, plus a US$150 million
guarantee for the outer years of a private-sector "B" loan have been granted.
Bank operations focused on: (a) construction, upgrading, and rehabilitation of
roads, periodic maintenance, preparation of feasibility and final engineering
studies, and development of road maintenance capacity through direct technical
assistance as well as provision of funds for procuring maintenance and road
research equipment.



- 10 -
1.28      The objective. of the first two projects--for which Project Completion
Reports (PCRs) and Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) were issued in 1979
and 1980, respectively--were not fully realized due to: (a) the effects of major
changes on the economic, political, and social structure of the country; (b)
insufficient funds for recurrent road expenditures; and (c) rampant inflation.
The latest PPAR drew attention to the need for selective organization
strengthenir.g, which was subsequently addressed in the First and Second Highway
Reconstruction Projects.
1.29      With the First Hiahwav Reconstruction Proiect (Loan 1927-CH for US$42
million in April 1981), a very constructive era in Bank relations with Chile
began. The main objective of the project was the reconstruction of about 250 km
of Route Five, mainly south of Santiago (IDB was reconstructing another 500 km).
The January 5, 1987 PCR stressed the project's timely and cost-effective
exocution and commended the National Highway Directorate (DNV) for its management
of the project and its development of modern planning methods. Compliance with
the loan covenants concerning implementation of axle load limit rogulations and
improvement of road maintenance was excellent. All planned weigh stations are
in operation and axle load limit violations have been reduced from about 102 of
all trucks in 1982 to less than 0.52 from 1985 to the present. Several large
private enterprises installed their own weighing stations.
1.30      The Second Hiahwav Reconstruction Pro1ect (Loan 2297-CH for US$128
million in August 1983) was approved to help MOP continue the reconstruction of
435 km of Route Five north of Santiago, as well as the reconstruction and
widening of about 411 km of main transveroal roads. It also helped MOP to otart
a major road maintenance effort of the Basic Network by financing regravelling,
surface dressing, and overlays of about 1,400 km of major roads; construction and
rehabilitation of some 100 bridges (including 60 km of access roads); and
acquisition of road maintenance equipment.
1.31      Lower-than-expected project costs occurred due to the competitive
construction market and the strength of the US dollar in relation to the Chilean
peso. Thia permitted the Bank in 1984 and 1985 to expand loan financing to
accommodate two emergency programs.   The first financed a US$5.6 million
reconstruction program of roads damaged by the 1984 floods. The second financed
repair and reconstruction programs for infrastructure damaged or destroyed by the
March 5, 1985 earthquake. This included a US$12.2 million program for roads and
bridges and a US$15.5 million program for emergency civil works, equipment
procurement, and studies related to repair and reconstruction of the ports of
Valparaiso and San Antonio, as well as rehabilitation of diesel locomotives for
the Railway Company (SFE) and EMPORCHI. Scarcity of counterpart funds during the
years 1984 through 1986 and the execution of the additional works delayed project
completion by more than a year to December 31, 1989. Quality of works has been
excellent, and the revised implementation schedules and original loan covenants
have been complied with fully.
1.32      The First Road Sector Pro1lct Loan 2589-CH for US$140 million in
October 1985, accompanied by a US$300 million private bank "B" loan, of which the
Bank guaranteed the outer US$150 million, partially financed MOP's 1986-89 Roads
Investment and Maintenance Programs, including: (a) construction, reconstruction,
rehabilitation and upgrading of roads and bridges; (b) routine, periodic, and



- 11 -
deferred maintenance of the basic and local road networks; and (c) technical
assistance for coordination of the project, feasibility, engineering and special
studies; works supervision; and training.   The remainder of the program was
financed by IDB, supplier credits, and the Government.
1.33      Under this project, DNV fundamentally strengthened road matntenance
administration and implementation capacity at its headquarters and in the
regions. DNV complied with agreed targets for routine and periodic maintenance
and has established a well functioning information and cost-accounting system
comprising all cost factors, including equipment ownership costs. It also has
carried out a detailed survey of road network conditions using the sophisticated
deflection and roughness measurement equipment procured under Loan 2297-CH. This
effort, coupled with the pavement monitoring and management study, has provided
an excellent base for establishing a Pavement Management System. The training
component has been highly successful, even exceeding agreed targets. The project
was satisfactorily completed, fully disbursed, and closed on June 30, 1990.
1.34      The Second Road Sector Proiect Loan 3120-CH for US$224 million was
approved on September 14, 1989, and is ongoing.   The main objective of the
project is to continue to support the Government's careful financial management
through increasingly efficient execution of its road investment and maintenance
programs. Another objective is the establishment of an effectively functioning
road maintenance and pavement management organization.  It consists of DNV's
1990-93, four-year program of road expenditures, including: (a) investment for
construction, upgrading, and consultant services; (b) periodic and routine
maintenance, minor equipment purchases, and consulting services for supervision,
studies and training; and (c) administration of DNV's program for maintenance and
rehabilitation. The project is progressing satisfactorily, and as of March 1991,
the amount actually disbursed was ju-t 5% lower than forecast at appraisal.
However, some procurement problems have developed recently as a result of the
highly legalistic approach taken by Contraloria General, which delayed the award
of certain contracts.   The satisfactory solution of this problem will be a
condition for Board Presentation.
1.35      In summary, lessons learned during 30 years of Bank lending experience
in the transport sector in Chile are very encouraging. Especially in the last
decade, the country has had an excellent performance fully complying with
objectives, covenants, timing, quality of works and cost estimates of the
different projects. Institutional improvements have been remarkably good, in
many cases exceeding the Bank's expectations. Training programs have also been
highly successful.  Ho-;ever, recent procurement problems that may affect all
sectors (para. 3.14) must be solved to avoid jeopardizing future operations.
1.36      IFC Proiects.  On June 28, 1991, management approved an IFC project
for an investment in the form of an "A" loan of up to US$5 million, a "B" loan
of up to US$12 million, and an equity investment of up to US$5 million for the
expansion of Puerto Ventanas, located about 50 km north of Valparaiso. The total
volume after completion of the project in 1994, is expected to reach 3 million
tons from a current 1.5 million tons. The main traffic at this port includes an
annual import volume of about 1,300,000 tons of coal consumed in the thermal
plant located adjacent to the port, and an export volume of around 500,000 tons
per year of copper concentrate. The project constitutes basically an extension



- 12 -
of the existing pier into the ocean to permit higher ship drafts. Also, another
project for the construction of a general cargo port facility at Coronel, located
about 40 km south of San Vicente, in the amount of up to US$5 million and eauity
investment up to US$3 million, was approved by the Board in mid-1990, but the
project did not become effective and it is considered to be very unlikely it will
proceed, because the private group has lost interest.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oriain ond Objectives
2.01      The components of the proposed project at the ports of the Vth Region
were first identified following the 1985 earthquake that seriously d.maged the
San Antonio and Valparaiso ports.  After completion of some emergency works
(financed under loan 2297-CH), which enabled the ports to recover partially
operational capabilities, and before starting any major reconstruction works, the
Government decided to prepare a study on port development plans for the Vth
Region. An agreement was reached with the Government of Japan for the study to
be prepared by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), while the
Interamerican Course for the Preparation and Evaluation of Projects (CIAPE)
started the preparation of another study. On completion of the studies in 1987,
the Government, after exhaustively examining them, decided to carry out the
definitive evaluation and preliminary engineering design of the initial phase,
and review the long-term development plans through a final Port Development Plan
for the Vth Region and Feasibility of Phase I. This study was completed in 1988
and is the basis for the Vth Region port investment program to be supported under
the project. Another port development plan for the VIlIth Region, prepared
separately in 1986 and designed to cope with growing exports of forestry products
from the VIIIth to the XIth Regions, is the basis for the other port component
at San Vicente.  Together these projects comprise 57S of EMPORCHI's 1992-95
investment program (para. 1.25). In the supporting feasibility reports mentioned
above, several project alternatives were analyzed, and the selected ones
represent the optimum solutions.
2.02           At the same time, during project preparation the Government and
the Bank recognized that EMPORCHI's public port investment program did not cover
a number of complementary activities that fall outside its authority, nor did it
provide for investments to complement and support private sector port activities
that may develop over the project period but which cannot yet be fully
characterized.   A  "sectoral  loan"  component,  supported by an  indicative
investment program (para. 1.26) and by an economic and environmental criteria
(Annex 3), to select project subcomponents was developed as a result.  At
appraisal, the criteria for this component were agreed.
2.03           The main objectives of the project are: (a) rehabilitating and
modernizing port facilities at San Antonio and Valparaiso, and expanding San
Vicente to cope with forecast traffic, including seasonal peaks, to the end of
the century; (b) increasing efficiency in port activities; (c) alleviating
congestion caused by port traffic in urban areas; (d) promoting wider private-
sector participation in port development and operations, and the introduction of



- 13 -
modern cargo-handling technologies (by private port operators); (e) supporting
institutional improvements in the infrastructure sector; (f) improving
environmental conditions at the project ports; and (g) through a sectoral loan
component, supporting transport sector efficiency and encouraging private sector
development through complementary infrastructure investments. The project fits
well with the Government policy stated in para. 1.12 concerning private sector
involvement in the country.   It supports an even stronger private sector
participation in transport infrastructure through the development of modern
container terminals to be equipped and operated exclusively by private operators,
and through the construction of economically-justified infrastructure, financed
out of the sectoral component, to facilitate the concession of certain port-
related businesses, such as inland intermodal terminals, to the private sector.
The works at San Antonio and Valparaiso ports consist of rehabilitating and
modernizing the facilities loot during the 1985 earthquake, without adding
capacity. Given the special nature of this activity, and as indicated in para.
1.12, it is the Government's policy to undertake this work by itself. During the
last years, major private investments in the San Vicente Port area (expansion of
the Port of Lirquen in 1985, current construction of a new pier for wooden chips
in Puchoco) were not commensurate with the traffic demand. As a result, the
congestion in the Port of San Vicente reached excessive values (902 occupancy
year round, average waiting time of 78 hours/ship) that forced the Government to
undertake on its own the construction of the new berth included in the project.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.04      The  Bank's  involvement  fits  well  witl  Chile's  outward-looking
macroeconomic framework, and country assistance strategy emphasizes, inter alia,
efficient resource allocation and increased exports, increased private sector
participation in the economy, and improved efficiency in the public sector.
Previous Bank involvement in the port subsector --through sector and project
preparation studies and emergency repairs of the earthquake-damaged ports of San
Antonio and Valparaiso with proceeds of Loan 2297-CH-- has been crucial in
avoiding overdesign and promoting competition among ports as well as changes to
customs regulations and procedurea, mainly with regard to container traffic. In
particular, the Bank's presence in the port subsector would bring a beneficial
catalytic effect in precipitating policy decisions for improvements, which
without Bank participation may be harder to implement given the already high
efficiency level achieved in the systems. This would apply to improvements in
container operations, coordination among relevant Government agencies and with
the private sector (para. 1. 17), orderly development of fishing activities (para.
1.18), and implementation of environmental conditions in ports (para. 1.19).
C. Pro1ect DescriDtion
2.05      The proposed project includes two parts. Part A consists of the high-
priority, 1992-95 MOP Port Investment Program, complemented by private sector
investments to make the port components fully operational.  Part B, within a
sectoral context, comprises high-priority, port-related investments already
identified by MOP but requiring further studies to confirm their technical,
economic, operational, and financial justification. In some cases, they will



- 14 -
also need a definition of institutional matters related to them through studies
included in Part A of the project to be financed under the proposed loan.  In
addition, Part B also includes equipment to complement the above, and reflects
private sector investments to develop intermodal transport further. The private
sector has explicitly informed the Government of its willingness and capacity to
provide cargo- and container-handling equipment at the project ports. Maps IBRD
23103 through 23105 show details of the port works. Estimated project costs by
programs are included in the following table, and a su=mary of the project
description appears afterwards, with a detailed description given in Annex 4:
Estimated Prolect Costs by Program
(US$ Million)
Local       Forei,n       Total A/
Part A
San Vicente                                    2.1           4.4          6.5
San Antonio                                   12.8          31.1         43.9
Valparaiso                                     8.4          24.5         32.9
Technical Assistance                            -            5.7          5.7
Training                                        -            0.5          0.5
Subtotal: Part A                              23.3          66.2         89.5
Part B
High-priority, Port-related Investments        4.9            9.4        14.4
Total Base Cost (March 1991 prices)           28.2          75.6        103.9
Physical Contingencies                         4.0          11.1         15.1
Price Contingencies                            4.2          11.7         15.9
Tntal Project Coat (excluding
taxes and duties)                   36.5           98.4        134.8
Taxes and Duties                              25.3             -         25.3
Total Proiect Cost (including
taxes and duties)                   61.8           98.4        160.1
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 15 -
Part A
1.   Port Component
At San I'Icente (5.9% of project cost)
-    construction of an additional berth "Cero" for general cargo
services, including supervision of construction (5.6Z);
°eguiRent and instr     ts to improve (by the private sector) and
monitor Port environmental conditions (0.3%);
At San Antonio (42.3%)
-    reconstruction and modernization of berths 1 South, 2 and 3, for
general cargo, multipurpose and container eervices, respectively,
including   dredging   and   reclamation;   hydraulic   studies,
engineering studies for berth 4; paving and utilities of a
container yard, backup areas and inner roads; ancillary
buildings; and supervision of construction (35.2%);
-    construction of a fishing wharf and related facilities (0.5%);
-    equipment  and  instruments  to  monitor  port  environmental
conditions (0.1Z);
-    Provision of container-handlinf  and environmental prevention
equipment, by the private sector, including gantry cranes (6.5%);
At Valparaiso (32.5%)
-    reconstruction and modernization of berths 3. 2 and 1. and
rehabilitation of Baron berth, for container, multipurpose,
general cargo and fruit exports, respectively, including paving
and utilities, dredging and ancillary buildings, adapting
existing quay cranes for use on reconstructed berths, and
supervision of construction (25.6%);
-    eauipment  and  instruments  to  monitor  port  environmental
conditions (0.1%);
-    provision of container-handlinz and environmental 2revention
equipment by the private sector, including gantry cranes (6.8%)
2.   Technical Assistance and Training (5.5%)
-    institutional improvement of the infrastructure sector (2.2%);
-    feasibility and entineerint studies. and construction supervision
for complementary, high-priority, port-related investments
(2.21);



- 16 -
-    training and advisory services for high-level sta'ff in port
planning and intermodal transport (0.53);
-    project implementatAon control (0.62).
Part B
High-priority port-related investments (13.8Z)
-    infrastructure for gort and inland terminals (access facilities,
water and power supply) (4.6Z);
-    small-scale fishing Ports (4.12);
-    construction of inland terminals by the private sector (4.82);
-    provision of port and port-related eauipment to complement Parts
A and B investments (0.32).
2.06      The Technical Assistance Program comprises a number of studies,
construction supervision and project monitoring required to fulfill project
objectives and to address the issues raised in Chapter I, Section C in the
following way: increasing efficiency in port activities (paras. 1.18 and 2.03b)
through studies on a Ferry Terminal at Puerto Montt, Institutional Set-up for
Small-Scale Fishing Sector and Fishing Facilities in the Vth Region; alleviating
congestion caused by port traffic in urban areas (paras. 1.20 and 2.03c) through
a study on Port Access Facilities; promoting wider private-sector participation
in port development and operations (paras. 1.17, 1.21 and 2.03d),   through
studies on Development and Implementation of a Port Tariff System, Inland
Multimodal Terminal and Libertador/Los Andes Corridor; supporting institutional
improvements in the infrastructur. sector (paras. 1.22 and 2.03e) through studies
on Institutional Reorganization of the Infrastructure Sector, Macrocenter Region,
and Inland Multimodal Terminal; and improving environmental conditions at the
project ports (paras. 1.19 and 2.03f) through a study on Port Environmental
Standards.  The results of the studies w1il be incorporated during project
implementation as specified, for each project, in the tentative chronograms
included in Annex 7.   When the above-mentioned studies identify specific
investments, provisions are made in the project to finance their engineering,
supervision, and construction. The Technical Assistance Program includes also
the financing of the Project Control Unit to facilitate project implementation.
The project-related training would be addressed to high-level professional staff
of Government agencies concerned with port planning and development and inter.
and multimodal transport. The participation of managerial staff of private ports
and inland terminal operators in training courses, seminars, and site visitti
should be encouraged by MOP and MINTRATEL; however, loon funds allocated to
training would not cover expenses of private participants. In addition to the
above, the training component would include the participation of the
professionals referred to above in international conferences and seminars on port
administration, cargo-handling systems, and intermodal transport, among other.I
Details on the scope, exFected outcomes, and timing of the technical assistance
and training programs agrcsd with the Govern ent are given in Annex 7



- 17 -
D. Pro1ect Cost and Financing
Prolect Cost
2.07      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
as well as taxes and duties, is estimated at US$160.1 million equivalent, of
which US$98.4 million corresponds to foreign exchange costs and US$61.8 million
equivalent to local costs. Bank-financed project components amount to US$131.0
million, representing 82% of the total cost, including contingencies, taxes, and
duties; the difference of US$29.1 million corresponds to the total cost of
project components expected to be financed by the private sector.   Foreign
exchange costs for the Bank-financed project components and for those expected
to be financed by the private sector amount to US$77.7 million and US$20.7
million, respectively. Local costs for Bank-financed and private-sector-financed
project components amount to US$53.4 million and US$8.4 million equivalent,
respectively, in'luding taxes and duties. Taxes and duties amount to US$25.3
million equivalent, of which US$19.2 million will be borne by the Government and
US$6.1 million by the private sector; all will be collected by the former.
2.08      Of the total Bank-financed project of US$131.0 million, US$108.5
million (or 83%) corresponds to the EMPORCHI project components (including
contingencies, tax6s and duties). The foreign exchange costs of the EMPORCHI
components amount to US$62.3 million equivalent and the local costs to US$46.3
million.
2.09      Project base costs are based on: (a) detailed designs for the port
works at San Vicente and the Baron berth at Valparaiso; (b) basic engineering for
San Antonio and the rest of Valparaiso port works; (c) preliminary engineering
for the small-scale fishing ports; (d) preliminary assessment of the rest of
civil works under part B of the project; (e) prevailing prices for container
cranes; (f) prevailing consultants' feea and estimated manpower for professional
services; and (g) leasing rates and estimated operating costs for capital
dredging works (due to the small volume to be dredged, the unit cost is about
three times international prices). Physical contingencies of 10% were considered
for project components, with detailed designs and 5Z was taken for the others.
Price contingencies were calculated assuming annual inflation indices from 1992
to 1998 of 11, 0.5, 0.4, 0.6, 2.7, 3.9 and 4.4%, respectively, after updating
them for the 1991 inflation rate. Forecast local inflation together with local
currency devaluation balances out with foreign inflation; thus, the latter was
also used to calculate local price contingencies. A summary of project costs by
disbursement categories is presented in the following Table, and a detailed cost
estimate is given in Tables 2.1 to 2.3. Also, a detailed cost estimate of the
EMPORCHI project components is given in Table 2.4.



18 -
Estimated Prolect Costs by Disbursement Categories
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreign       Total 1/
Part_
Civil works 2/                             23.3       47.2          70.5
Goods 3/                                      -       12.9          12.9
Technical Assistance                          -        5.6           5.6
Training                                      -        0.5           0.5
Subtotalt Part A                           22.3       66.2          89.5
Part B
uivil Works 4/                               4.9       9.1          14.1
Goods                                         -        0.3           0.3
Subtotal: Part B                             4.9       9.4          14.4
Total Base Cost (June 1991 prices)         28.2       Z5.6         103.9
Physical Contingencies                       4.0      11.1          15.1
Price Contingencies                          4.2      11.7          15.9
Total Proiact Cost (excluding               36.5      98.4         134.8
taxes and duties)
Taxes and Duties                            25.3        -           25.3
Total Project Cost (including                         93.4         160.1
taxes and duties)
1/   Totals may not add due to rounding.
2/   Includes  a  total  of  US$4.1  million  for  professional  services  for
engineering studies for Valparaiso and ccnstruction supervision at the
project ports.
3/   Includes US$12.4 million expected to be financed by the private sector.
4/   Includes US$5.0 million expected to be financed by the private sector.
Prolect Financing
2.10      The project financing scheme is presented in the next Table and more
detailed informaticn is found in Tables 2.4 and 2.5. The proposed Bank loan of
US$71.0 million, which corresponds to about 912 of the foreign exchange cost of
the Bank-financed components, represents 52.72 of the project cost (net of taxes
and duties) and 44.4Z of the total project cost. The remaining foreign exchange
and local costs, excluding taxes and duties, of the above Bank-financed
components of the project, would be financed with a Government contribution of



- 19 -
US$40.8 million, representing about 30.2Z of the project cost (net of taxes and
duties). Government contribution, including taxes and duties, represents 37.4S
of the total project cost. Project components expected to be financed by the
private sector, amounting to US$2:.1 million, including physical and price
contingencies, taxes, and duties, represent 17.1% of the total project cost.
Table: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Millio-) 2/
X of      I of
Project   Taxes      Total   Project    Total
Source    Local         Foreign     Cost LL   &           Cost    Cost 1/   Cost
IL                                   Duties
IBRD             _         71.0          71.0        -       71.0      52.7       44.4
Gover't        34.2         6.7          40.8      19.2      60.0      30.2       37.4
Other           2.3        20.7          23.0       6.1      29.1      17.1       18.2
(Private)            I               I         I         I          I_I_II
Total          36.5         98.4        134.8      25.3    160.1      100.0      100.0
1/ Excludes taxes and duties.
2/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
2.11      For the financing of port components under Part A to benefit EMPORCHI
(para. 2.08) the following financing scheme has been agreed:  (i) EMPORCHI will be
responsible for providing from its own resources the equivalent of US$46.3 million,
corresponding to the local costs of its components (including taxes and duties),
plus US$5.8 million of foreign costs. This amount will be made available through
annual transfers of funds to the Minietry of Finance which, in turn, will allocate
these funds in HOP's budget in its capacity as borrower/executing agency; and (ii)
the remaining foreign zost amounting to US$56.4 million will be financed through the
Bank loan under procedures described in paras. 3.15 and 3.16.
E. Economic Evaluation
2.12      The proposed project would finau.ce key investments of the 1992-95 Four-
Year Public Port Investment Program and other port-related subcomponents included
in a complementary investment program (para. 2.02). It will also contribute toward
introducing reforms and institutional strengthening in areas such as coordination
between private and public port investments, fishint activities 4n ports,
environmental conditions in ports, port land access, and container terminal
management. Consequently, the project's benefits would significantly exceed the
returns on individual investments. Port works amounting to about US$123.3 million
(77S of total project cost) were subject to full economic evaluation prepared by
consultants in 1987 and 1988, and updated by EMPORCHI in May 1991. A provision of



- 20 -
about US$22.2 million (141 of total project cost) has been made for the sectoral
loan components, which will be evaluated during project implementation following the
guidelines established in Annex 3.  Technical assistance and training totalling
about US$14.6 million (9Z of total project cost) will not be evaluated given the
special nature of these expenses. At present, some of the Chilean ports are showing
capacity problems, especially noticeable in Valparaiso during the fruit season
(February, March, and April, when about 801 of the annual volume is exported) and
year round in San Vicente.   This creates port congestion, causing significant
waiting time for ships and trucks. In 1991, average waiting time during the peak
season was about 7 hours/ship in Valparaiso and San Antonio, and 78 hours/ship in
San Vicente year round.   Given the increase expected for foreign trade in the
immediate future (Annex 2) and the already high throughput level achieved mainly by
efficiency and technological improvements (para. 1.10), physical shortages of
capacity will become more severe unless new capacity is added to the system. This
is confirmed by the economic evaluation results.
2.13      For the economic analysis, the port civil works components are divided
into the following individual investments: (i) construction of two container berths,
one in Valparaiso and one in San Antonio, and reconstruction of Baron berth; (ii)
construction of berths l South and 2 as multipurpose in San Antonio; (iii)
construction of berths l and 2 as multipurpose in Valparaiso; and (iv) construction
of a general cargo berth in San Vicente. Benefits were analyzed in each case, and
include savings in either some or all of the following concepts: (a) port handling,
(b) operation and maintenance, (c) ship waiting time, (d) ship service time, (e)
hinterland transport, (f) costs due to port capacity shortage in the without project
situation, and (g) damage costs due to severe earthquakes in the without project
situation. All these benefits were considered in investment (i) above, resulting
in an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 482; for investment (ii), all benefits
except (a) and (d) are achieved, and the ERR becomes 29Z; through investment (iii)
only benefit type (g) is achieved, and the ERR is 181; and the construction of
investment (iv) will only bring benefit of (f) type, with a resulting ERR of about
711. The overall ERR for the evaluated part of the project is 462. Annex 5 gives
details of the economic analysis of each project component and as a whole and
includes a sensitivity analysis. In the most unfavorable combination analyzed in
this analysis (an increase of costs by 151 and a decrease in benefits by the same
percentage), the individu 1 project components continue to be feasible, with an ERR
ranging from 151 to 591    The high returns on these investments are a clear
indication of the urgency in recovering the capacity lost at Valparaiso and San
Antonio because of the 1985 earthquake, the need to prevent future loss of capacity
if another earthquake occurs, and the urgency to provide extra capacity at San
Vicente where congestion is becoming a major problem.
2.14      The major commodities for the project ports are fruit for Valparaiso and
San Antonio and forestry products for San Vicente. As mentioned above, seasonal
variation is extremely important for fruit traffic, while it is less significant for
forestry expor'i. The concentration of fruit exports is so high that the capacity
requirements of the first two ports is determined by the volume moved in March. As
part of the evaluation of likely economic alternatives for Valparaiso and San
Antonio, the possibility of reducing the seasonal effect of fruit exports was
analyzed, details of which appear in Annex 5. The main conclusion is that world
market conditions for grapes and apples, the main fruit exports, require very strict
deadlines for the Chilean fruit to be competitive; consequently, the shift of the



- 21 -
fruit shipment outside the peak period seems highly unlikely. With respect to using
alternative means of shipping fruit, i.e., airfreight, containers or lighterage, the
analysis concludes that they should be discarded because the cost involved would be
substantially higher.
F. Financial Asoects
2.15      Since EMPORCHI wovld be the beneficiary of 68S of the project (79Z of the
loan), a complete analysis of its past and projected financial performance was
carried out and is presented in Annex 6. The analysis was carried out both for
EMPORCHI as a whole and for each of the project ports, separately. The ultimate
purpose of the analysis is to ensure that the entity, in its capacity as an
autonomous public enterprise, would be in a position to finance out of its own
resources, after covering operating *xpenses, its share of the project and the
servicing of the corresponding portion of the Bank loan. The analysis also covers
a description of the institutional and regulatory setting of the entity, cost-
recovery aspects, including the adequacy of its tariff system and the mechanisms to
be established for the flow of the counterpart funds, through the Government, to
MOP's budget in its capacity as executing agency. The most relevant considerations
are summarized in the following paragraphs.
2.16       Under the existing legislation, BWORCHI operates as a self- sufficient,
commercial, state entity responsible for the exploitation of eleven commarcial
ports, except for the provision of stevedoring services, using sound financial
principles. It operates in an environment of market competition with the private
sector in the provision of both port infrastructure and services. It obtains its
revenues from charges for wharfage, cargo transferred through its ports (although
not handled by the entity), storage and other services. Its main expenses are
salaries for employees involved in storage and administrative activities and
maintenance of facilities. EMPORCHI, however, cannot dispose of its net profits,
SO of which are paid to the Government in the form of income taxes and the other
50% transferred to the national budget.  An exception is made for (authorized)
investments in port infrastructure, where the cost of works and/or goods to be
purchased can be deducted from the mounts to be entered into the national budget.
2.17      The analysis of the entity's financial results over the last nine years
(1982-90) shows EMPORCHI as a highly profitable institution with an average working
ratio (defined as total working expenses divided by total operating revenues) of 362
and an average operating ratio (working expenses plus depreciation divided by total
operating revenues) of 54Z. Its averago annual revenues have amounted to about
US$48 million and its average annual net income before taxes to about US$16 million,
or 33% of revenues. Transfers to the Government in the form of income taxes have
averaged US$8 million p.a. (consistent with the 50 income tax rate), but transfers
to the national budget have avoraged US$11.0 million p.a., thus exceeding EMPORCHI's
net income after taxes. Consequently, to comply with the national budget's
requirements for funds, EMPORCHI has transferred to the Government not only its net
income after taxes but also part of its depreciation reserves.
2.18      EMPORCHI's financial results are expected to remain sound over the next
decade (1991-2000). Its average working ratio would rmain at no higher than 46%
level during the forecast period, and the average operating ratio would be about 51%
over the same period. This performance would be the rosult of a projected 3. 5% p. a.



- 22 -
average increase in traffic, and therefore in revenues, which would offset minor
cost increases expected under some expense headings.
2.19      EMPORCHI's cash position should also remain healthy over the forecast
period. The entity would generate annual operating cash surpluses (revenues less
operating expenses), increasing gradually from the equivalent of US$29.0 million in
1991 to US$36.0 million by the year 2000. This internal cash generation together
with the depreciation reserves and the proceeds from the Bank loan would place
EMPORCHI, after meeting its tax obligations, in a very favorable position with
regard to project financing.   Indeed, in every year during the forecast period
(1991-2000), the entity will be in a position to fully finance its part of the
investment program, including both the Bank project and its own investment
requirements. Moreover, except for 1992 and 1993, it will be able to continue to
transfer 100Q of its net income (after tax) to the national budget. During 1992 and
1993, however, when the bulk of the project investments are expected to be executed,
EMPORCHI will need to suspend the transfer of funds to the national budget on
account of profits. At the individual ports' level, during 1992, 1993, 1995 and
1996, San Antonio's cash generation will not fully cover the counterpart funds
required for the works at this port, and, therefore, internal transfers from those
ports generating surpluses will be needed. However, with the pick-up in traffic
and, therefore, in revenues, which is expected at San Antonio as works are being
completed, the increase in this port's cash generation, starting in 1997, will more
than compensate for the deficits of those years.
2.20      The forecast shows that no increase in tariff levels in real terms would
be required to meet the entity's financial needs. At appraisal it has been agreed,
however, that a restructuring of the present tariff structure, to ensure that
tariffs are contributing to an efficient resource allocation in the port subsector
under an environment of market competition with the private sector (para. 1.21),
will be implemented before December 1993. Assurances were obtained at negotiations,
that the new tariff system, satisfactory to the Bank, would be adopted by December
1993.
2.21      In addition to the above, even though the entity's past and projected
financial situation undoubtedly reflects excellent operational and financial
management, at negotiations, the Government agreed to include the following
financial covenants to ensure continuity of present practices during the forecast
period (1991-2000): (a) EMPORCHI will achieve working ratios no higher than 462; and
(b) EMPORCHI will produce funds from internal sources for each fiscal year
equivalent to, at least, cover its share of the project cost (48% of the total cost
of the EMPORCHI project components), after meeting cash operating expenses, debt
service (including for the proposed loan), increases in working capital, and other
significant cash outflows other than capital expenditures.



- 23 -
G. Project Risks
2.22            All port project components would be designed applying the most
advanced seismic design criteria to ensure that all structures would withstand the
most severe earthquakes that may occur in the region. Since 1978, projects in the
highway subsector have been timely and efficiently executed with no cost overruns
by MOP'o DNV. However, this is the first Bank operation in the port subsector in
Chile; therefore, there is no experience with the capacity of the DOP of the MOP,
the executing agency for all civil works, to implement the project properly and on
time. To minimize this risk, the project would provide for the establishment of a
Project Control Unit (PCU) (para. 3.04) to assist the existing IPC during the
implementation of the project.
2.23      The risk of environmental hazards during construction would be prevented
by clear contract specifications concerning disposal of dredged materials, anr
strict contractors' compliance with traffic restrictions imposed by the municipa;
authorities at the project ports on transit of heavy machinery and construction
equipment and materials through urban areas.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Status of Preparation
(i) Part A Components
3.01       Most of Part A components are well defined, as feasibility studies and
basic engineering for all port works (77% of total cost) were completed in 1988 and
updated in 1991.   Construction works at San Vicente and the Baron berth at
Valparaiso are already underway; preparation of bid documents for port works at San
Antonio is well advanced; and engineering for all other Valparaiso port works has
started.  The environmental monitoring and controls (1% of total cost) will be
determined as a result of the study on port environmental standards financed by the
project; the container cranes (13% of total cost) would be provided by the private
sector, but the main characteristics were defined by consultants retained to assist
EMPORCHI in the definition of the operational features of the container terminals.
Draft terms of reference for all studies included in the project were prepared by
agencies responsible, and they were discussed and agreed during appraisal. Brief
summaries are included in Annex 7.
(ii) Part B Components
3.02      The port-related investments under Part B --such as construction of
wharves for small scale fishing ports at various locations along the coast,
improvement and construction of port and inland access facilities, construction of
inland terminals and complementary investments to facilitate private sector
investments-- would require additional studies or decisions to determine if they are
eligible for financing under the project.   The eligibility of investments as
consistent with the agreed criteria (Annex 3) would be discussed and reviewed during
project irlwlementation at the semiannual consultation meetings to ensure that they
are  technw-cally  and  environmentally  sound and  economically  justified.    The
probability is high that sufficient investments of this kind will go forward, and



- 24 -
the flexibility thus introduced mote than offset the cost of the related commitment
fees.
B. Reggonwibilities of Ahencie, Involved
3.03      DOP of MOP will be the executing agency for all port components, which
represents more than S0  of the project.  Some other minor components will be
carried out with the cooperation andlor policy or technical guidance of other
agencies  (MOP, MINTRATEL, ME, SECTRA,  etc.).   EMPORCHI,  as owner and final
beneficiary of the additional and (re)conetructed and rehabilitated berths, will
participate in the decistont made for such works through its involvement in the I?C
and IPCU (para. 3.04). IMPORCHI will also be responsible, through the Ministry of
Finance and following mechanism. satisfactory to the Bank, for providing counterpart
funds during the construction period, and make available to the Government of Chile
the cost of the Project as financed by the Loan. The specifics of the financial
responsibilities of EMPORCUI to cover fully the cost of the Loan to the Government
of Chile were discussed and agreed in general during appraisal. At negotiations,
the Government and EMPORCII presented a satisfactory draft of the agreement to be
signed between them specifying the Government's (through the DOP) responsibilities
in the execution of the key Program investments, as well as EMPORCHI's rights and
responsibilities during project implementation in repaying such investments and the
timing thereof; also, it covers the conditions for the transfer of ownership of such
investment to EMPORCHI. The signing of the atreement and its effectiveness will be
a condition of loan effectiveneas.
3.04      As indicated above (pars. 1,12), there are several agencies involved in
the port sector and their coordination at the general and policy level is effected
by IIC, with the port coaaission, IPC, responsible for handling more specific port
matters. The system is *ffoctive and permits a broad discussion of problems for the
purpose of reaching consensus in important decisions; however, the successful
implementation of the project would require a coordination body specifically
appointed for it.   Consequently, the Government has decided to establish an
Interministerial   Project   Coordination   Unit   (IPCU)   including   high-level
representatives of all agencies concerned with the project (IIC, IPC, EMPORCHI, DOP,
MINTRATEL, MIDEPLAN, Ministry of Finance), with the following functions: (a) act as
counterpart of the Bank and participate in the project's semi-annual consultation
meetings; (b) propose and request definitions on relevant matters to the
corresponding agencies; (c) perform general coordination of the project,
specifically of the work assigned to the different agencies; (d) supervise and
monitor the general progress of the project; (e) take all necessary actions to
implement the recommendations of the technical assiestance studies; and (f) overview
the preparation of periodic reports to the Bank.  To complement this set-up, a
Project Control Unit (PCU) was created to coordinate and monitor the execution of
the project on a daily basis; this unit is headed by a full-time professional with
qualifications satisfactory to the Sank, supported by two full-time professionals,
one part-time advisor and required support staff. The PCU will act as a liaison
with the Bank through the IPCU. Chart 4 shows the functional relationships among
IPCU, PCU, agencies involved and the Bank. The functions, responsibilities and
staffing of the PCU were discussed and agreed at appraisal, and during negotiations,
it was agreed that its complete staffing is a condition of effectiveness. The PCU
has already been established, and its chief has been appointed.



- 25 -
C. Prolect Execution
3.05      The proposed project would be completed in about seven years.  Chart 5
indicates the timing of the different activities involved in the project.   At
appraisal, an understanding was reached on the expected dates for hiring consultants
to carry out the studies, their completion, and the implementation of the
recommendations emanating from the studl.es. During negotiations, agreements were
reached on implementing the recommendations of the following studies in this manner:
(a) Institutional Set-up for the Fishing Sector (para. 1.18) by June 1993; (b) Port
Environ!mental Plan of Action (para. 1.19) by December 1993; (c) Port Access
Improvement Program (para. 1.20) by December 1993; and (d) Port Tariff System (para.
1.21) by December 1993. The schedule for the preparation of detailed engineering
for Part B works that comply with the eligibility criteria, to be financed under the
loan, would be reviewed at the semi-annual meetings.
3.06      The training component addressed to intermodal transport and transport
infrastructure and planning would mainly be under the responsibility of IIC, DOP
EMPORCHI and MINTRATEL, the main beneficiaries of this component. It is expected
that the private sector will be encouraged to participate in some of the training
activities, particularly with regard to intermodalism. At appraisal the following
was discussed: (a) the annual training programs outlining specific objectives,
beneficiaries, activities, and their location; (b) the selection criteria for
scholarship candidates and working visits; and (c) the format of annual reports on
training to be prepared during project execution. All these activities would be
reviewed at the semi-annual consultation meetings.
3.07      At  negotiations  it was  agreed  that within  six months  of project
completion, the Government, with the assistance of all agencies involved, would
prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to assess the success of the project,
including the achievement of institutional, administrative, operational, and
financial objectives and goals, and general evaluation of the lessons learned from
project experience.
D. Proiect Implementation Aspects
(i) Private Sector Involvement at Proiect Ports
3.08      The Government has decided that all container-handling equipment required
for the efficient operation of the container terminal 3 at San Antonio and Valparaiso
should be provided by private operators in accordance with the following framework,
discussed during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations: (a) the terminals would
be operated following the system of multiple operators currently used at Valparaiso;
for that purpose, EMPORCHI will open a special registry of operators that, having
applied for licenses to provide their services at the terminals, comply with all
financial, technical and operational requirements established by EMPORCHI.  All
licensed operators would be obligated to provide their service to whoever requires
them; and (b) the provision of container cranes by private operators would be done
through international competitive bidding procedures that would establish the
qualification requirements to participate (financial, technical and operational),
and the bid evaluation criteria will be based, among others, on the following
aspects: commItment by the bidder to provide ship-loading!t'nloading services to all



- 26 
port users applying published tariffs previously agreed with EMPORCHI, that would
be reviewed from time to time; capacity, age, productivity and maintenance plans of
the proposed cranes.   In addition to the above, bidders would have to submit a
proposal to install and operate additional cranes, when and if traffic justifies it.
(ii) Location of the Containe)' Yard at San Antonio
3.09      The development of the container terminal at San Antonio requires the
construction of a container yard;   EMPORCHI and MOP carried out an economic
evaluation of the two possible alternatives: namely, at the site currently occupied
by fishing and chemical industries (which would, in any case, have to be relocated
when berth 4 is built around the year 2000), and at an area to be reclaimed behind
the existing breakwater at the back of the container berth 3. During appraisal, the
mission reviewed and found satisfactory the economic evaluation, which concluded
that the least-cost solution is to reclaim the necessary area behind the existing
breakwater to build the container yard; accordingly, the Government confirmed to the
mission its decision to include in the project the construction of the container
yard at that site.
(ii) Relocation Aspects
3.10      The construction of berth 3 in San Antonio will require the relocation
of the fishing fleet operations currently being carried out at that site.  At
appraisal, it was agreed that this activity will temporarily operate on floating
pontoons at the south end of the port basin, and later will be moved to the fishing
facility to be financed under the project. During negotiations it was agreed that
the Government would terminate the authorization for the fishing fleet to operate
at berth 3 by March 31, 1992, under the assumption that construction works would
start on May 31, 1992. If this date slips, the date for the ceasing of the fishing
activities would be adjusted accordingly.
E. Procurement and Consultancv Services
3.11      Procurement of goods and works under the proposed project would be carried
out in a manner consistent with the Bank Guidelines (May 1985). Contracts for civil
works that would be financed retroactively (para. 3.16) were awarded using ICB and
LCB procurement procedures and bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank, prepared
by MOP in accordance with Bank Sample Bidding Documents. Draft bidding documents
for the procurement of goods, also based on the Bank samples, are currently under
preparation, and would be reviewed by the Bank as soon as they are available; it
would be expected that the final version, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
available well before 1993, when procurement of the first goods included in the
project would start. Consulting services would be contracted in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981).  Contracts for consultant
services for the detailed design of the main port works at San Antonio and for the
provision of technical assistance to EMPORCHI in the definition of the operational
features and layout of the container terminals at San Antonio and Valparaiso were
awarded following procedures established in the Bank Guidelines, using terms of
reference and conditions of contract satisfactory to the Bank and are being financed
under 3120-CH.



- 27 -
3.12      For Parts A and B of the project, contracts for civil works estimated to
cost US$3.0 million or more, and equipment purchases of US$250,000 or more would be
procured through ICB.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost between
US$300,000 and US$3.0 million, and equipment purchases estimated to cost between
US$50,000 and US$250,000, would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable
to the Bank, subject to an aggregate limit of US$22.0 million for works, and US$1.5
million for equipment and materials. Contracts for less than the above limits would
be procured on the basis of a minimum of three quotations from qualified suppliers,
subject to an aggregate limit of US$4.0 million for works and US$0.5 million for
equipment and materials.   The thresholds established for ICB would ensure that
contracts awarded through ICB could account for about 58% of the total estimated
project cost and about 72Z of the Bank-financed project components. About 18% of
the project cost corresponds to project components expected to be financed by the
private sector, using procedures other than the Bank's; however, given the incentive
to minimize cost, it is expected that procedures used by them would be on the basis
of sound procurement practices. The Table in the next page shows a breakdown of
project costs, including items expected to be financed by the private sector, and
loan amount by procurement method.
3.13      The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation for civil works and
goods will cover all major procurement steps (advertising, bidding documents,
evaluation reports, award recommendations, and contracts), and would apply to:
(a) the first two contracts for goods and for works under ICB, and all
contracts exceeding US$4.0 million for works; and
(b) the first two contracts for goods and for works procured under LCB.
The Bank will also review all documentation (terms of reference,
evaluation of proposals, award recommendation and contract) for all consulting
services included in the project. The limits established for prior Bank review of
procurement decisions will result in a coverage of at least 60% of the estimated
project cost, including private sector investments, or 75% of the cost of the Bank-
financed project costs. In the case of equipment to be purchased under Part B of
the project by the Borrower and his agencies, the precise equipment list and most
appropriate bid packaging and related procurement arrangements, consistent with Bank
procurement guidelines, would be identified by specialized consultants during
project implementation. A margin of preference of 15% of the CIF bid price of goods
or thie amount of the customs duties, whichever is lower, would be granted for
purposes of bid evaluation for procurement of goods under ICB.



- 28 -
Proct.rement Procedures 1/
(US$ million)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY          ICB        LCB     OTHER       N.A.   TOTAL 1/
1. CIVIL WORKS
PART A. Ports  2/            86.0       17.1     3.9                 107.0
(44.2)     (8.8)   (2.0)                (55.0)
PART B.                       7.0        7.0      4/        7.7       21.7
Infrastructure                 (3.5)      (3.4)          _              (6.9)
2. GOODS
PARTS A and B                 0.8       0.3      0.2       21.5       22.8
(0.6)     (0.3)   (0.1)    3/           (1.0)
4_/
3. CONSULTANTS
SERVICES                                       8.0                   8.0
PARTS A and B                                   (7.3)                 (7.3)
. ., ~~~~~~~~~~~~5/
4.  TRAINING (PART A)                              0.7 6/                0.7
(0.7)                (0.7)
TOTAL 1/                    93.8      24.4    12.8        29.1      160.1
________ __ _ __ _  (48.3)    (12.5)  (10.1)             (71.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.
1/ Totals may not add up due to rounding, and include value-added tax, customs
duties and contingencies.
2/ Includes supervision of construction.
3/ To be financed by the private sector.
4/ Shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank
5/ Consulting services procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
6/ Includes consulting services and items not involving procurement.
3.14      Procurement problems which have affected ongoing Bank-financed projects,
are: (a) differences between the Government and the Bank as to what constitutes a
substantial deviation with respect to the bidding documents to justify the rejection
of a bid; and (b) restrictions imposed on professionals who have not validated their
University degrees in Chile. With respect to the first problem, the Government,
through the DNV, has simplified and revised the bidding documents in a manner,
satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce to a minimum the risk of rejecting a proposal
for deviations from the bidding documents, whose correction would not substantially
change the scope, contents, quality and price of the bid concerned. Concerning the
second point, on October 23, 1991, the Chilean Congress approved a law eliminating
the requirement of title validation for professionals working in a project financed
by an international organization like the Bank when required by the loan agreement.
Assurances were obtained confirming the understanding that this law is applicable
to the loan. Consequently, the two procurement problems are satisfactorily solved.



- 29 -
F. Disbursements
3.15      Disbursements of the Bank loan weuild be made against:
(a) 49S of total expenditures of civil works;
(b) 100S of the foreign exchange expenditures of imported goods; 1002 of the
ax-factory cost on locally-manufactured goods; and 772 of local
expenditures for imported goods locally procured;
(c) 1002 of total expenditures, excluding taxes, for professional services;
and
(d) 10OZ of total expenditure., excluding taxes, for training.
The closing date for project disbursements will be June 30, 1999.
3.16            Funds from the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a period
of seven years closely in line with the standard profile for transport projects in
the Region. Retroactivo financing in an aggregate amount up to US$7.1 million
(equivalent to 1OZ of the proposed loan), with respect to payments made for
expenditures incurred within the 12-month period before loan signature, but not
before March 4, 1991 (date the Bank initiated the appraisal process), would be made
with respect to port works at San Vicente and the Baron Berth at Valparaiso (para.
3.01), and for consultants' services for technical assistance components including
supervision of construction. At appraisal, all disbursement-related matters and
retroactive financing have been discussed and agreed, in principle, with the
Government and were confirmed at negotiations. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is given in Table 3.1.
G. Special Account and Auditing
3.17      To maintain an adequate flow of funds to finance eligible project
expenditures with a minimum of administrative delay, the Government would establish
a Special Account in the Central Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.  The Bank would, upon the Government's request, deposit an aggregate amount
equivalent to a maximum of US$6.0 million (4 months of estimated expenditures) from
the loan account into the Special Account. Records of the Special Account proceeds
and outlays would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and subject
to annual audit. Disbursements would be made on the basis of certified Statement
of Expenditures for civil works where the contractual values are less than the
equivalent of US$500,000 and for goods where contractual values are less than the
equivalent of US$250,000.   The corresponding supporting documentation would be
verified on a routine basis during the supervision process.
3.18      EMPORCHI's financial statements are annually audited by the Contraloria
General de la Republic&. Given that the scope of the auditing work required by the
Bank goes beyond that performed by the Contraloria, it has been agreed with the
Government that during project Implementation, private independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed to perform the external audit for EMPORCHI
and DOP's project accounts. At appraisal, agreement was reached on the external
auditing of EMPORCHI by private auditors in accordance with appropriate auditing



- 30 
principles and on the forwarding of the annual audit reports to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.  The audit will include the
Special Account.
H. Environmental Impact
3.19            The  Environmental  Assessment  (EA)  of  the port  component  that
constitutes the core of the project, carried out by the National Agency of
Environmental Protection (NAEP) under the guidance of the Ministry of the
Environment of Denmark, concluded that there would be no adverse environmental
impact as a result of the works to be executed at the project ports nor by the
transit and handling of the commodities at the facilities to be financed under the
loan. However, the EA identified a number of existing problems, as well as some
port activities that need to be monitored to detect, measure, and prevent or reduce
adverse effects to the local environment (Annex 9).  In addition, construction
contract specifications would stipulate in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
dumping sites for dredged material at the project ports, and restrictions to prevent
other environmental hazards during construction. Each Part B component will require
a specific EA to determine project eligibility (Annex 3). The project would include
technical assistance to compile port environmental norms and standards, and
monitoring instruments and equipment to tackle the problems whose solution is under
the responsibility of the Directorate of Maritime Territory and Merchant Marine
(DIRECTEMAR) and EMPORCHI, in accordance with their respective functions.
I. Proiect Monitoring and Semiannual Consultations
3.20            Monitoring of the project by the Bank would be as follows:  (a)
annually, starting in mid-1992, review the progress of the Action Plans, the
implementation of the recommendations emanating from the technical assistance
components, the progress and results obtained from the training program and the
achievement of financial covenants; and (b) hold semiannual consultation meetings
with the IIC and the IPC (around March and September) to review the progress in the
implementation of the port component, and review the eligibility of sectoral
components in light of the specific studies included in the project, to define the
budget and programs for the next year.  During negotiations, these matters were
discussed and agreed with the Government and its relevant agencies.
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01            At aD2raisal, agreements were reached with the Government on the
following, which was confirmed at negotiations:
(a) inform the Bank and take its comments into account before authorizing any
port investment in the hinterland of the project ports (para. 1.17);
(b) scope of a study to develop and implement the regulation of fishing
activities in the port areas to reduce pollution and congestion, and
establish the framework for an orderly growth of these activities before
June 1993 (para. 1.18);



- 31 -
establish the framework for an orderly growth of these activities before
June 1993 (para. 1.18);
(c) plan of action for implementing environmental improvements in ports
before December 1993 (para. 1.19);
(d) preliminary evaluations of solutions for project port accesses will be
ready by December 1992, and at that time, an improvement program for port
land accesses will be discussed and agreed with the Bank (para. 1.20) and
begun to be implemented by December 1993;
(e) implementation of a new tariff system in EMPORCHI will be done by
December 1993 (para. 1.21 and 2.20);
(f) scope of a study to pursue expansion of customs inspection and clearance
to inland terminals (para. 1.22) to be submitted to the Bank by December
1992;
(g) discuss and review during the semiannual meetings MOP's annual port
investment programs before they are authorized, specifically with regard
to new investment projects greater than US$5.0 million (para. 1.25);
(h) methodology to determine economic, environmental, and financial viability
for sectoral components (para. 2.02 and Annex 3);
(i) scope and timing of the professional services to be included in the
project and details of training (paras. 2.06, 3.05 and 3.06);
(j) project costs (para. 2.07);
(k) working ratios, and caeh generation requirements to be achieved by
EMPORCHI (para. 2.21);
(1) functions, responsibilities and staffing of the PCU satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.04);
(m)  current authorization to the fishing fleet to operate at berth 3 at San
Antonio will be terminated on March 31, 1992 (para. 3.10);
(n) procure goods and services in accordance with Bank guidelines (ICB) and
LCB procedure", satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(o) terms and conditions, and auditing procedures for the project, including
the Special Account (para. 3.18).
4.02      Full staffing of PCU (para. 3.04), and the signing of the agreement
between  Government  and  EMPORCHI  (para.  4.02),  will  be  conditions  of  loan
effectiveness.
4.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$71.0 million. The terms would be 17 years with a 5-year grace period.



- 32 -
Table 1.1
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTU-CT    PROJECT
EMPORCHI and Non-EMPORCHI Foreign Trade Port Traffic
(in thousands tons)
Non-EMPORCHI Portse|  1989        1990    EMPORCHI Port.        1989      1990
Patillos                 574      1201    Arica                 630       652
Tocopilla                803       949    Iquique               749       534
Caleta Hichilla           61         47    Antofagasta         1404      1499
Mejillones                25         52    Coquimbo             209       232
Caldera                   78         49    Valparaiso          2986      3144
Chanaral/Barquito        228        150    San Antonio         1470      1810
Huasco                  4354      3724    Talcahuano            630       414
Gauyacan                3346      2849    San Vicente          2728      2603
Quintero                4680      3971    Puerto Montt          218       450
Muelle Cap.              655        552    Ferry Term. PMC    none       none
Nolo 500                 134        255    Chacabuco             50       832
Coronel                  347        496    Ferry Term. CHB    none          7
Lirquen                 1784       1886    Punta Arena.          84        75
Penco                    239       233    Ferry Term PNT       none      none
Cabo Negro               646        765
17954     17179             _          11158      12252
_ue EPRIMrh _9
Source: EMPORCHI, March 1991



- 33 -
-qw                                              Tablo 1.2
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PRQJECT
EMPORCHI Ports Total Trafflo
(In thousnd tons)
a)     19
Port                          Transit  Transit    Int'l    Domest  Domest             Grand   %
Export   Imports  Loaded   Unloaded  Trafflo  Loaded   Unloaded  Other  Total
Arica              253        45      181      171       630       3          3        44    680     5
Iqulque            515       220       5        9        749       9          3       22    783      6
Antofagata        1006        194      149      55       1404     208        228       85    1925    15
Coqulmbo           205        4       non     none       209       14        36        8     2B8     2
Valparalso        1801       1083      69      33        2986      76        88       212   3362    25
SanAntonio         731       734       4        1        1470     117        267      27    1871    14
Taloahuano         586        43        1       0        G30       43        69        7     749    6
San Vloente       2706        21        0       1        2728      0         78        14   2820    20
Puerto Montt       217         1      none    none       218       29        84        0     331     3
Ferry Term. PMC    none      none    none    none         0       181        95        0     276     2
Chaeabuoo          49          1      none    none        50       0         20        0      70     0
Ferry Trrn. CH8    nons      none    none    none         0        79        148       3     230     1
PuntaArena         37         38       4        5         84       32        118       2     236     1
Ferry Term. PNT   none       none    none    none         0        2          3        2      7      0
8106      2384      393     275       11158    7Z4        1230     427   13608   100
b) 1990
Port                          Transit  Transit    int'l    Domest  DomeaL             Grand
Exports  Imports  Loaded   Unloaded   Trafflo   Loaded  Unloaded  Other  Total    %
139      54       230      221        652       3          2       34    691      5
Iquique            286      238        1                 59 34     8          1        18    561     4
Antofagata        1053      200       154       92       1499     118        169       83    1849    14
roqt.'!nbo         228       4       none       0        232       14        23        5     274     2
Valparaeso        1932      1090      39        53       3144      60        57       220   3501    26
San Antonlo        650      949       10        1        1810      82        220      21    2133    16
Taloahuano         365       48        0        1        414       19         95       4     532     4
Stn Vloentc       2572       30        1        1        2603      2         67        18   2622   20
Puerto Montt       422       28      none     none       450       22        62        3     537     4
Ferry Term. PL".    none    none     none     none         0      169        102    none    271      2
Chaoabuco          6o       772      none     none       832       3         24        0     859     1
Ferry Term. CHBS    none     7       none     none         7       77        120       4     208      1
PuntaAron"         32        38        2        3         75       28        107      8      218     1
Ferry Term, PT    nono      none     none     none         0       33         0        2      95     0
7939     3458 6    475      381       12262    as6        1109     396   14417   100
Soure:m                                           -FOC-1 mw                      -              -u



- 34 -
CHILE                                         Table 1.3
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1992-96 Public Port Exponditure Program
(In Th USS)
al    Expenditure Prooram by Ports:
Port            1992              1993             1994             1995            TOTAL
Antofagasta          2.360            1.190            1.380             2.300             8.230
Arica                2.330             120               240               60              2.750
Chacabuco             610              120               280               0               1.010
Coquimbo              580              430             1.300               40              2.350
Punta Arena"         1.070            1240               790             1.520             4.620
Iqulque               570             1.840            1.020              460              3.890
Ferry-P'4C           1.220             275               30                0               1.525
Puerto Montt          360              170                0               200               730
San Antonio          1.130             710               630             2.520             4.900
San Vicerte          1.220             450               610               0               2.280
Taicahuano            210             1.380               0               190              1.780
Valparalso           2690             1.680              200               0      _        4.570
TOTALS              14.350           10.605            6.480             7.290            38.725
b)    Soscifo Proldeo Over US$500.000:
YEAR            PORT                           NAME                            USS
1992         Antotfagat    2 fork lift (F.L) and 1 top lIft trucks         1.260.000
1992         Valparalso    Rehabilltdion berth 6                            540.000
1992         Valparaiso    10 F.L truck and 1 tractor                       W0'A0
1992          Forry.PMC    Filling and reclammaton of the tar end o7 quay wall  970.000
TOTAL                                                                       3.400.000
1993          Iqulque      2 F.L and i top lift truck*                     1.260.000
1993         Valparlso     Contructon of port ancillisry bulldings          900.000
1993         Talcahuano    Major repalr works                               520.000
TOTAL                                                                       2680.000
1994         Antotagasta    Paving utii"tes building uea                    510.000
1994         Chacabuoo     3 platforms, I tactor, and 1 topllft truck      126.000
TOTAL                                                                       1.770.000
1998         Antofagata    Repaving pasnger loading ae                      640.000
1995         Antogafasta    Paving bulk handling zone                        530.000
1995          Santiago     Railway land acquIsitlon                        2250.000
TOTAL                                                                       3.420.000
zurc: V-eFIRM. maren, .-



TU162200  1? IIFOS?IIC?Uft PROJECT                                  OITAILD COST 12101911
0514221 COSS (n000*a                858  COSTS ICUS*OILLION)
PA". A                                   OISC2.1T0                          001K3001                  LOcAL   f02i10=    TO?6L              LOCAL    101C101      TOTAL
1.. WmvcmCtVL 000*5                                      CONOTImoGf   Of 201110                     1091.9?   W01).5   5670.00             732.91    1324.09   tOOO0.20
soinvislm  at casON1UCTl3ONS1TH 0                                       0.00    110.00    110.00              o.oo      M,so       87.30
EQOIfl                    38180IONK*TAL M019ITORINO ANW 001MtA          0.00   100.00    300.00               0.00     105.00     103.00
503101Ls "a3 110Z1                                                                                    2091.43   0429.53   4320.00  -         722.91    1J4.44    1322.00
a. urn *ITO                     CIvIL Wm2"                 CONSTRUCTION of 9511N 2                    1052.04   2700.01   67$2.00           1080.10   1007.10    1077.10
COKSTRACTIAN 0? 00118R 2    1 SOOT!1       2007.42   2101.52   7000.00            082.68    1014.97    2790.45
PATING LWM 0U.II'S 206*1 3                  091.44   100.5.7   1403.00            107.00    282.75      604.32
15111  am* 271L1T'12 10*1 2                  *0.74   1120.34   1740.00            113.74    2052.4     449400
svoxms                          ~~~~~~20.l0    200.40    s9o.oo         72.31     152.38    200.40
812ANCAWT03 ?01. COirrAII 1A10             30148.00   2711.10   8000.00          1091.08    1008.92    5080.00
Cwr*?51 YARD                                9*1.40   1447.40   2400.00            11.4.1    590.38     410.00
1188121 018.                                101.1 5a 71.40    571.00               70.34     120. 14    200.S2
0138013 WOW1              Ba1s LWD 51,1020  91132H 1. a A 5          1241.40  1324.40  3400.00              4"I.28     817.74    1260.00
1W0V12108o 01 CONShRCI.ON1OCIWI AND 28010121 008                        0.00   1200.00   1100.00              0.00     420.00    8*0.00
mumarr? An =S1!30T   0011*110  CIA1cs                                   0.00  60000.00   6000.00              0.00    2100.00    1100.00
T!YI206=TL MONITORING LWM 030120              0.00    200.00    100.00              0.00     102.00     103.00
603T0?Ls SAN ArNTM                                                                                   11771.14  311115.87 9132.00            9440.40   10848.02   US310.73
S. uziAszsoA                     845115TATION 01 WM.0 008LW421LT5t101 0f BARN08101                     972.24   2404.21   1700.00            241.28     451.48     975.00
CWUTIOCTION 01 mm1  1   CWIOCYI0MO1 8011! 1                          135805.02140.92  3244.00               484.77     898.22    1341.10
C2ToCIIUm   0r 03c.2 2                     1439.67   0312.13  9471.00             272.88    1041.29    1855.10
CONSTROCTION 0f sun! 1                      883.12   1622.84   2514.00            504.09    571.51    880.40
151121 LW U1tIUUU 2013 51404.14  1315.86   2*40.00                               421.42    1167.22    179.00
1ATI10 An V=?Lzzs .        1m               424.69   1144.21   1704.00            120.14     407.51    417.00
150110 mm1 0110.115101I                     441.44    620.54  1244.00             122.181    297.1      440.40
5101,L1. BUIL.DING                          108.14   597.48   314.00               42.82     111.7"     117.80
SEES 1                                      492.37   791.45   1121.00             120.00     177.22    427.11
01*50121 0051             550100  85101 80?                            21.0"     14.44    00.00               7.17      12.62      21.00
8115910101 0f C8U01T0CIYZ. 610 03*5DO1  001.                            0.00   1800.00   1990.00              0.00     461.30     641.20
1Q016*5  ALW INSTRUMITS CONITASIIU CRAM3                                0.00  4000.00  4000.00                0.00    1100.00    1100.00
V1MIn0?sAL 60811T1.11  AND CONT2.            0.00   500.00    200.00               0.00     105.00     102.00
SW3V210N 479213           8011111. 2 AND 3                              0.00   800.00   800.00                0.00    200.00      200.00
8su108A0. 1s32515A0                                                                                    3609.04  20219.41  11419.00          1934.48    8419    11221.65
SOOTOUL. 151? A . PORT 0300901                                      13218.68  60028.12  83219.00           8142.99   21010.91   38143.40
4. TZm01=C"AlA. 5T891601          1681010 tn1              801?L TAUNtS                                  0.00   100.00    100.00               0.00      70.00      70.00
M01 AW  11MA6W 1381111 A40318 IACILI?         0.00   "00.00    100.00               0.00     105.00     102.00
MM  N*UTT' FZ1.? ?C8Z.                        0.00   loo.QO    100.00               0.00      52.00      22.00
110A6W  1113110002 7310151.                   0.00    122.00    115.00              0.00     43.7       42.7is
UES?7T1088a1A  WOW21      51265ST210T02  8017                           0.00   832.00    950.00               0.00     187.20     297.30
SMASILCL.08Z 118311  11001.                   0.00    89.00     8800*               0.00      16.00     18.00
1120111 15C1L11118 to lIb 8201                0.00    40.00     4000                0.00      11.00      81.00
K&CIOCULAAL 001101                            0.00   301.00   185.00                0.00     U4.7       134.72s
L225?*IOIILOO Ann3 002.200                    0.00    120.00    120.00              0.00      22.30      10.20
701? mYvU03mK    STANDARDS                    0.00   100.00    300.00               0.00      70.00      ?0.00
muntmml  STUDIES          FM1 am8 18.820 TUNINALS C038 Y6CKLI?13    0.00   120.00   210.00                    0.00      97.20      82.20
11531*  08*1.12                               0.00    900.00   600.00               0.00     140.00     160.00
PDU%2 mom81 13*5   C81                        0.00    2040.00   100.00              0.00      70.00      70.00
LI2WASOIWOS £01t1 002U=0                      0.00    100.00    200.00   *          0.00      70.00      70.00
80001M510 0f COSUOCTIOPOS12 AM IRLAND TUINLS 60CU8 16A12.111            0.00    100.00    100.00              0.00      22.00      15.00
mm12  ?mr  mu1. 131*38                        0.00    050.00,   210.00              0.00      87.50      97.20
118322* 0891.1                                0.00   200.00   200.00                0.00     172.00     917.00
L2IflA008..20  410I3, 1311rA6                 0.00   200.00   100.00                0.00      70.00      70.00
at_                                                                     0.00   400.00    400.00               0.00     140.00     140.00
FROM1 in308.               1010 001100 mm1                              0.00    700.00    700.00              0.00     242.00     242.00
8U0I10A5 .. A61  * 10S31t*2 £84SI1510                                   0.00  2630.00   2600.00               0.00    197.50    1477.2*
S. 18RA0ll0                     12*194P1                  80813419   0211  ns11                          0.00    70.00     70.00               0.00      24.20      84.20
313816110161 CaY11120                         0.00    80.00     88.00               0.00      14.0       88.00
0008RSU6 AND401926                            0.00    100.00    100.00              0.00     12.00      32.00
tofa10060                 00U?ARS311  & 0011.21  918?                   0.00    70.00     70.00               0.00      10.20     29.20
1T06?106AnOL 0011Rxcn                         0.00    80.00,    80.00               0.00      14.00      88.00
00083861 An    1811                           0.00    100.00    100.00              0.00     35.00       52.00
80810162. 1*21 A   08615121                                             0.00    200.00   200.00               0.00     172.00     17.0
1011. 121                                                                                            13242.66 44104.22  89474.00            8*92.99   22172.91   21212.80
15ff I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~21113lcvn                                  c.01s                              II&4.   1211  TOM1            .05       10811242    TOM5
K12811 012R  0MO128R            0193 WOW2                  101?T AM0 1*0A40 T311381. A01U8 U403.? 1243.40   1224. 90   3400.00               442.24     817.78    128. 00
1W.&SLAZD ll 5l                                            GKU61L.CA2Z 1182010 10218                  1204.30  2700.70  4200.00              5188.18    474.74    L202.00
0*A.41 TC1131A.' 0111.211  8UL?             821.20   771.4.0   1240.00            297.41.    272.56     424.00
00181101110  Of 31.A01 1D31138             1725.00  2208.00   2000.00             614.18   4135.75    1720.00
RA[USINSI  LWD 881141.    030W1*1A.t 1FOR*?A    A AM                    0. 00   284.00    2441.00             4.00     100.10     100.10
291ALe PA*113                                                                                         4944.10  4434.90  14500.00            9172.19    2202.9    0021.10
1316.4Mu2s MU308             1*8PAM  A mm 6                                                      295*4.79  72442.3I 103840.00,          4872.17  341657.82   24321.00
~~1mm1718               43381086mtc&                                                          4009.40  1*041.88  L072.121           1402.24    8872.00   S217.29
482C3                                                                4211.88  11881.47  124*4.94           1488.1S    40842.09    8570.14
80810106       1 3tom                                                                                 42181.7  22722.42  20487.09           S88I.46   7054.00   10842.08
Tom0.  lflI  008  (,111 U011 TAM  mm 00T1132                                                         56474.0  9871.02 134847.04            127"64.4   24429.88   97164.60
TAM  LW 01413U                                                                                        3505.24      0.00  2150549            88M."         0.00   $8824.94
13156. PINISI? cm08=1la   An 001  15148093                                                           S1781.84  29371.03 190*23.87          11612.27   S2441.8   88$025.44



- 36 -
S2an                                                                        cmuj
T!AUS?O1T IOV9ST*9cT03* ?804                                       TOrAL 631MAL CLWfMT=Z
(03$ '000)
(INCLUDING co9?£SuCIU. TA.CU AN0 DOTIES)
PA&T A                        DZICII956*5*10                     cUopoxET                   TEAS I  130  a  138* 3  T38*4   136* S  TM8  4  TM6*7    MAL
2. 985 SicUTS                   clftl, An,W                0001*300*0  0f ISTS 0                      0401.46    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    2.00    1.00  0460.46
s0iUYItoI  Of COIOST=OC?I00uT  0                                     2oo.963   70,04    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    321.47
5Q01~~1             12VI061601*mwAL 0UXTo*UtOwAnoWT!Uu           0.00  131.14  £51.10       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   502.3*
00310rALA sasUNT                                                                                      08#2.29   331.00   551.14    0.00     0.00    1.00    1.00  9457.45
5. "a 8AII*                     elm?) ODAL                 001520C11 of OUT! S                        7045.00  5346.07    0.00     0.00     9.00    0.00    0.00  13*90.05
COUT3mol0  or 51n21 a   I som.             010.64  7294.35    0.0Do    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00  13113.79
iAnv   Ao 0   14*158 Zan 5                   0.00 3300.05      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   5540.0*
9*915 AND0 9*11*18 Zan! 2                    0.00  344J.1      0.00     0.00     0.00    0,00    0.00   *044.5*
0013293                                      0.00    0.00  900.01       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   00$.$*
9ZCtAM4T7O0 fl5 COUTX2 YARD                £53J.52    0.00     0.00  4072.30  4133.SS    0.00    0.00  13451.34
0*0A7W59  TARO                               0.00    0.00      0.00  2332.12  1437.04    0.00    0.00  40*0.10l
TM=1*  Wu"5                                  0.00    0.00  470.97       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    970.47
0*550500VMS               B6STV AMD AUM5WD IUTS 1. I245                 0.00 5471.45      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  3471.4*
SWUYh0?  05 0CU10T10M011V11 AMPD 0230a2 1*055                         075.09  510.0£   540.05   171.55     0.00    0.00    0.00   1495.41
tq0min1  OW  INSTUDW?   cw?MW* mun15                                    0.00    0.00  20133.0  5044.05     0.00    0.00    0.00  10001.25
i   91U01901762 iMTl0OL   AND O010I             0.00  351.1 0 £1.10       0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    301.53
STOUTAI4s gO AN  O                                                                                   14764.83 14077.38  7301.08 15704.01  7070.40    0.00    0.00  674017.0*
3. VA2J65A3S0                   USAMAILITATIOU Or MM0 l9UTKU9ILTATTOR O? &M*0  31211                  4005.27    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   4005.37
0000T104?1  Or slXs  3   00510T1Ut1W SIM*  3                            0.00     0.00  6134.04  1707.35    0.20    0.00    0.00   5021.24
005*1300*0l 01 IsTm  a                       0.00    0.00    0.00  5149.55  5144.00    0.00    0.00   7247.23
CM0T200*1    0? sonT  I                      0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00  1431.40  2341.14  42335.4
WAnVIG AND 0111T*15  ZOU S                   0.00  $454.54  1345.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   7421.94
PAVINO AND 0*22.1*15  . ZOWX I               0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00  5935.07    0.00    0.00   35*.47
PAVING AND 0*22.2*15sm4I                     0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00 214L.21  5101,21
851*1148* 3012.0320                          0.00    0.00    0.00   411.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    421.01
sm5 I                                      1243.20    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00  1t2".1is
nalom wow mi              £29610 9050 lnTN                              0.00    0.00   01.29      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      41.14
sWUVsm m or cmT!00*000Y11  m W         w    maDO ts0*                   0.00     0.00 1477.75     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   3877.75
stUN    t   2N0T9Uo0   eTAIn5 cum*                                 0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00  5205.00 5424.03    0.00  10019.45
431UiTI.  MTI10   AMW COT!.            0.00    0.00  502.33      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    5023.5
0MMMMUt SOtUs            55*T55. 2 aND 3                             337.00   785.41    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   1130.40
S0310*A3. 98558*010                                                                                   614201    7043.99  4047.49  4759.48 15174.37  7078.33 471.302  52047.15
90310TLa PAW1 A - PM*0  0*0*0005                                    30439.65 3120437 14400*04 10442.49 31045.17? 7040.15  4745.34 158131.51
4. UTUWI.A ASSt*?ANC            TAIASIOWTO                 FM0130 90**6*57                             500.05    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    200.43
000*AMP 1NL6W1 T      .0ahACS ACCZU  1.?*UIS  210.43   21133t    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    4235.1
Mao* gUIl  MM5* TDXUIN.                      0.00   141084    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    141.05
32A8W 13*WOOI. TIMICCRL                      0.00    0.00    0.00    53."    75.37   57.40    0.00    204.57
UT?1T0100UA2 010012       ILT3MTDCTW. 0*0*0                           477.41  723.37    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   11094.4
MU0LCA0LZ 11L10~ MTO                         0.00   113.34    0.00,    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    115.34
735519  ?ACUJ?UT IM 914 35510                0.00   03.0       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.0      0.00    45.0
teamT3L  550                           0.00  565.47    0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   565.47
LISIMUDO*llOO AWlPS 003*320*                 0.00  213.5£      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   512.53
PM0  UV1WROS? STAODA04                      240.4£   *61.49    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   £53.10
n   95 0l      WI        IPM  AMD 152.6* ?VIX 8 LOCUSS ?801241         0.00  554.20    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    334.30
7195  930*355M                               0.00    0.00   435.30   114.36     0.00    0.00    0.00   547.72
rUsTO "MMT  MM TIMMMAX                       0.00    0.00   295.14      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    305.34
L3740031100s Al=! 009*500                   04.13   146.33     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   503.40
ST123*S0101 Of O9UOUWNOV AMP 131LAND "MM08 LOCUS FL=n=3    0.00   141.48                 0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    141.49
MM3*  w0?  MIT Wozo&                        105.31  347.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.40    0.00    353.25
115910  914*355                             140.45  141.08   141.48   645.95   044.74      0      0.0     723.644
LZ03*00030105 0535 winYUa.                   0.00    0.0-0.01   134.14   174.40          0.4       .0   380.44
0.00    0.00*    C.b4  3504.71, 335.10s    0.00    0.00    500.09
1205110*509509            mo.0lZM C0070110, UNIT                      196.30   104.74  245.74   150.00   154.06    07.25S  111.57   3027.00
9091030. *5ILT &    C1110*.&A 68USTA7NC                              163S.83  £407.40  1057.10   004.07   003.45   144.54   111.57  Sm0.5
S. T!AUUS                       TRANISOXV                  SCIO.835318 4 00311w VSTSm                    0.00    14.04    29.64    20.01    00.54   31.45    9.00    101.48
INT45I901 00913CU                         0.00    25.47   125.?    55.67    35.44   26.419    0.00    120.18
cUoma An0 0fl5s                              0.00    29.34   2M.U    58.59    50.33    50.02      0.00    145.35
VMXXM0A&                  SOGI.8SS31  A 00u0 VISIT                      0.00    14.04    19.04    15.02    30.54    31.45    0.00   101.08
IUTUAI't098  CMUWCU3                        0.00    25.07   32.47    22.87    IS.4"    34.09    0.00    114.18
00oma3  MW 925254                            0.00   *4.54     3.4    2  9.54    58.. 3    50.41    0.10- *C    145.58
STOTAS PARS A * 13101                                                 0.00   141.44  A14.69   143.95   144.74   355.0)    0.00    724.11
TOT80L. VAST A                                                                                       £1444.40 34081.4£ 1"777.1  19408.70 13040.34  7397.04  44.3.5 157181.47
5503.1 Z00fl int* U             011*0 vx                   PM* AIM ULoW TnmUIOz  AOCUS ?801Mn*9          0.00  1006.38  2094.50  1104.44  113-3.7  1142.55    0.00  5406.55
POf-WASID  4lgUM0!                                          MU Z..A01 ns1555 Pun                         0.00 4535.31    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00  4535.51
tsIAND 755a3A55* 0*022*13 00W1               0.00  411.40   431.90      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   1415.01
039m3m0*1 a 012318   10*0a541                0.00    0.00  50).40  *500.12 3342.14    0.00    0.00   7100.46
MP    1  ANW Nh53U&S    CWLMWW*T 19 VAM*A0 £  W                         0.00   47.09   19.55    44.3£    '.00   *04.44    0.00   404.76
10*36. PAW a                                                                                             0.00  0509.39  53157.43  5453.40  3404.55  1304.14    0.00  25103.00
T10A* 8 AC.' 92033    Cost06    PAM* A an  a                                                         52444.49 43200.64 130*4.52 £2182.19 13318.91  0747.10 4454.95 MIMS2.4



is'SKE  it44f   reuse  nt,.   ogle    so's4   tes.stt  sn                                                                   * We     ve         -  zswu s4mimo Ct  '2134
nt'rnts  Dole    s,'gs    S'nt   ",M   setS          West   SO'S       tn t       a nM    Y sav *W    a-W fm      S'2Ymm stN US 
tilte   are ee              It',:.  to,m     u'wt Go,"    solo ere                          i
irnis    sol        ee-e   ore n-     s     gn    gta's      "It oe aws te    e                            _m
"I"       o'      is'     n e      e-e o's t      's   snteun es'                      -t 03t1  e   Iwse-e_ wU 11a *auayn aeeS 
Iset    D o L *     tw *     Wl  *      "It      " I5 t t 1 10 3 19m ew                                                                                       g  ye
uI'Wn    oe-e   tu-n    Lt-t   te-et   is'sw    ge's    me-                                         ty surw                     
"lot    solo    tVot   tI't    tole?   told    to,4    Se'0                                oPf     s   mmcc
"Its    Cole    L'et       We    sel        go's *t-e     *  te-e                  aMr Mu t        W t     A
9s.gg    eaee of'          W&    OD's    "t          "t'      o*                  sasu  eSm   seun,is am                         euaa                                 Is
n-ti    to,"    st @   t PI1   te-el        *t tole          te-eat  Vog                          3:0I1tv'M              an       r
:er sow    st   cleor   Ct5 *t-s                    te *                  - te-e U2 t  w                                  tt *s
5So      ce-S    Dol r S  n        n        t2    S  uno    f US OD's
U49      SO'S       4         n            so        elo "t W  S'  tt 5tt5                       ius mst
Wttott   tole             ro' .                                                            ag o' ot 5e OW  i   Lime ai   .
Si',    Soe-      oe-e    tt~ n     O' te- 't   *     1S    so' eru     e . tte                ut   my   ioetSamnus
144      OS         rS    t ogle    OS'S  "I"  e0e   Was                          te-un t - t  nm         IS3.1
S t," 4 1           1  ee-o  oe-o  eeoil  ee-e    solo                                      n-oebst Law 04:215
St's.    Do'e    OS'S    O*01s    SO'St   St',s11   OS's   0SS                      *l¶         SA u          I
onotO-Oto- ee-o  oe-o  ot-o   te-e te-e    55                5                                 maya t  t
U-nt   oe-o   Coe-o    oe-o        Wle-     n-m0  eeol    OD's                                 tUzrn   MW0103RtU ofx          pi13
-m lte  0o         oe-o  ee-o  eo-o          "eI      "lott   SOSt                    9Ow5      Xwu A tm            t
t404i eS'S  ee-o    SeoS           ee-e e-o'        tor  t  e5                             mimt  W       Y
Wao      OS'S   Dole    eo-o    So'o    ee-o   t£54          Se-o                    tn    oun t aN-Th
cc"- 9     SOt S   S'         n e-  eeo- D- OO  e  t e  n-OS" tOOM M                                       W  oe-o         ' 
Si*W  w-e5    40t   nS  n U-Oet    oe-o w-o'                 ee           -          ain   twu.m 
45'4tp   OS'S    00.0    Colo    0050       SO'S     Was4  00*S                     "LYmi AR   aiMNo
ot'ot      ree-   oreo   o@ee-     oe'   oo-e    Sits   eei o        nu~   mae  ns a  m. ot  L
et!-t       ee-o   ttw   soe-o w e 9  ee o           "IUete-e9 tte- fe                                                    aXv uutcn tl =ms n
ISiL     OS'      500     SO'S    SOS SW       i U"n tts  n-S wS tS-tst                                           t -*
tt'@otr "  ColS    Co*l Ut    l O-Dt SO'S   SO'S    oS'Se   et,S                                UYIO m s    SSinS           JS  1    ,Y                                , =I
itsre    nreo eoree    ee'e ee-o uttC n       't*   oen      go's                      sum  misuse *t  arntu           o    ssth
g4f       5Sn   eo-o   ee-o  ooooeo t4-t5e- OS'S    or                                    am   my   taz                      mmss
Wotgtt   SO'S    e'oe        o t    e-o   DoSe    SoetS  SO'S                              f          115S
tt's5£    eo-o    SO'S o   0'S t    S'S    SO- S U   O's    so'S te-e              UV         2tn m im a   9n&
srnXc   ee-o    Colo   Coslo    n-n0  ee-o   Dol             "I ee-o1  M                              ntlLozt                 oatn
n-a tUf eDo eo- ee-o01             0        to-oc   Ceolee- 000&                                    oci  30300on come
4        S'S    SO'S    oSo         oS o-      e-o   e o solo    DioS  t"                                 Ot* m e S
.nnit oo1  o 1  ee- e eo teoI&    D-tstole    OD'            W,         n        3       2       lf  en =vs
rS'nts   SO'S    SO'S    oe-ot   5ii   S' oe-o oe-   co-o       oe-                      ELU sa  o   S.Soi
trotlo   ee-ete-          ee-e *0 00n   001n  0e-o    ee-o                            sm  nSUI    dot            r        o  D,10
nne9 t     S'S ee   'S    SO'S ee-e     oe-o        Colo    Dole                   am' SS  Iao        t 0U00of          e tm n                             e
el'tO,t  Co'S   10 'S      0OS,     O'      SO'S    OS'S0    el'tSOt 01            ISm ISEWITO    dowtiwrginy  miaTIio                                     o1W'A'
U1'Z991   "'Cn      SO'S ol'       Colo    SiSSU -n   o'w   onnt                        IIini1V  mit "tUAlVS
W-t oot   00      01      tolee eo-         ao    soo-  9n"                       Wm  M" so ouvm wmM"4                               Me-oAv  It
ts'ut   Dole    00'-    SO'S    S'e  oe-'o   1Wt  n- 'e               o     u-   We mmluoM  lYiUS55tih
n41555   Seo'     o'So    OS'      so'lSt it'Ht eO'S          s                               mm   uumeo S               :D ao my   1t
sor-tn   So'S    SOS e    to0    "Io'-   teoStt  oo-1nn   mem-e                               mou    myn nntUMOtaIU       o 10  ni&
Wnff eS0 'S      S'      SO'      so'S    "s'       01141  So's e o            g It Mai sD  som y e-e                    su 1tm o1o-me
n-nng  solo    Colo     Usol           n     eo     te-e      e-o09    e1Itam   spag
t £    So'S    Sueo  et4-o nt'               DlS      'S      "It                                mmI ml  n cmS te- oeoe  inte
901mu SIo'        So'Se   Se-o tSo'S  n-ntS SOS               O'                   EeISIoI 
WStXe ee-o    004-e1               seole-eo -e  tt #00  eo-o              *                   U         0enout
ns',t    iS'S 4e'S 0       O't o e  eo      tS'U0    n'tt   as'..                  t                                                               UUSL x* L rn   a" te e t
t@'55t soo         01     sl SO'S    SO'S    SO'S    SO'S," t'C 15 S'       sum    II  mtADi 'W£In1tt                           rne
S£'t      so'So     ' 04             'tsolo    ee  eO's  Oe'e eo'-       nu 3ess        t      AD  001=11'10                       o IUmsou a" It
o'tUt       92    295 c'  boll     y  9~S  9    5 193s'" ilgit 9t,"                                                axialome                                       aveou
o nn t;roCt D ten enSn-n 'tm 4r3nY0)
e-mf 000  4 1             Coleeo   04-o    Ceoltee    "It    a,                                       a am o tiousm  SO sufozU
01c0     UI o    ct o e    Dol     Doll e4n1 ten1    00-t                    o            a,  Kso   =150                     nmM v  o        e     r     t     IA M   t
....... .     ... . ... __          *    _ , _ , _                   _     _ . _            _      _     _. .          _ . _           _      _     _      _..
7    n)st u                                  me
c t nts-



- 38 -
0279                                                                                          CHILE                                                                                                        TAILS 2-4
TAOSPOILT IMYLUTILWTM  PRQJ=                                        vmtm  MM= C"Omnm - limpew AAfb mica CCOMU00cm
stu          nmica              AXNWL CONTLUUnOMI DUlIlMO CONSTIOMON
.        ......................................................                    .        ................ .............. .    ..... . ........ __
FAIX A                                            ountm(o                                    COMPOSW                        TOrAL  fg LMAL TOTAL UU I TM  I TZU I TM  4 Tta 3 TUR 4T&" ?
.  ..................................... .                              .  ........
1. UAI TICENTS                          cinL MDRIM                      CONSTRO M  ON or BERTH 0                             4.13       0.50  3.S?  4.37    4.37
sumnsim  at cwsr&= ons%T% o                                                          0.32   0.00  0.03  0.03   *lo$   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
gQlnmw                          EMIONMENTAL NotTaum  AND CONTROLS                    0.19   0.00  0.06  0.06    0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00
-       -  ----------------------------- - - - -                                .        . . ......
SUBMALI "O VICENTE                                                                                                           4.73   0.50   2.94  4.44   4.31   0.04   0.03   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
. . ... . . .......................... . ..
2. UN ANTMO                             ctvm  wan                       cmmomop or BERTS 3                                   4.54   0.77  3.94  6.75   4.05   2.10   0.00   0.00   0.00
cmsrzumotl Of IERTS 1 6 1 soum                      3.16   0.70  3.45  4. IS   2.46   3.49   0.00   0.00   0.00
PAVM       AND OTUMZS Wn   2                         1.26   0. 13  1. LS  1.10   0.00   I.SD   0.00   0.00   0.00
rAVING AND MLITM            ZMM 2                   1.30   0. U   1. Lo  L.JA    O."        1.34   0.00   O."    0.00
sutotms                                             O.4S   0.03  0.41  0.46   0.00   0.00   C."              0.00   0.00
LtCLAMATION TOR COMPTALNER, ?AID                    6.71   0. 7*  4.13  4.02   0.40   C."    0.00    J.Ll   3.11
CONrALM        YARD                                 1.98   0.23   1.41  2.0s   O."    0.00   O."             1.23   0.82  O."   O."
Fuel"   wuu                                         0.43   0.03  0.39  0.44   O."    0.00   0.44   G."    0.00  0.00  O."
DM=tw  wow                      IUXN AM  ALMSIDE BERM                1. 2 4 3        2. St   0.32  2.44  2.78   0.00   2.74   0.00   0.00   O."                     0.00
surnminstom or commocTIowirm  An   DLixim  wons                                      1.14   0.00  0. Is  0.1$   O."    0.05   0.03   0.02   G."                     C."
CRUMM AIM =MMMM CMTAINU CUNO
DMUAIHMAL MMTOIM                  ARD CONTSM%,      0.19   0.00  O."   0.06   0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00   G."                      C."
. . . ... ........... ........
6=10=8 so   ABTMG                                                                                                           SM4    3.11 23.20 14.40   7.16  11.89   MG   4.36   3.93  O."   0.00
. . . . .... . . . ... .. . ........... . ............... . .
3. WALIARUM                             &SMAIM"MOM Of SAM               SCIAMMILITATION 01 WM    SXM                         1.97   0.23  1.40  1.03   1.03   0.00   G."             O."    0.00  O."   C."
CONSTROCTION Of sun   3    =STLocrtm? IrLTR 3                                        2.96   0.35  2.4t  2.04   0.00   0.00   2.01   0.49   0.00  O."   O."
cmimumm  of gem              2                      3.59   0.42  3.24  3.71   O."    C."    0.00    1.11   I.St  O."   O."
ccxsr=nop of MIll I                                 2.06   0.24  1.91  1.15   0.00   O."    0.00   C."    0.00  0.46  I.21,
PAinN  AND 7111,17US tOMM 3                         3-03   0-43  3.32  3.97   0.00   S. 0    O."    0.00   G."   0.00  C."
?Avtm  WM MLITM              . Zan  I               1.39   0.14  1.27  1.41   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.43  0.00  0.00
lAnn   An   UTILITM         tm     I                1.04   0.12  0.97  1.10   O."    0.00   0.00   C."    O."   0.00  1.10
AKUJAIT ACUDUPOS                                    0.40   0.03  0.37  0.42   O."    O."    0.00   0.42   O."   O."   O."
Sam   I                                             0.9t   0.11  0.63  0.93   MS   0.00   O."                O."    0.00  C."   0.00
casDam        WORKS             ALMtDz Sam   SEKTR                                   0.04   0.6t  O."   O.0s   O."    0.00   MS   O."    0.00  O."   0.00
sumnsice or CCRSTUMOPCZTU   AND DROOM                     WORKS                      2.43   G."   0.24  0.14   0.00   0.00   0.24   C."    0.00  0.00  O."
SPUtM AND UMMMM CMTUM MISS
EMSONMENTAL MOnWRIM  AIM COOnM                      0.19   0.00  O."   0.06   0.00   0.00   O."              0.00   0.0*  0.00  0.00
$MIES            azzm        1. a An   3                              1.03   0.00  0.10  0.10   0.03   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
gMrMMs TMJAR&M                                                                                                              21.91   1.14 17.01 It. IS   3.09   2.15   3.11   2.43   4.03  O."   2.30
.. . .............. . ... . ..
SWATOM4 PART a - Pam             CMUOMM                                            SS.73   3.93 ". 16 31.01  14.65  U. 17   4.10   S."    I.04  O."   Z."
. . ........... . ...........
A. TZCXUCAL AlSZXTA=                    Tiat"m          srwISS          PORT TALIrrl                                         0.26   0.00   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
PM AD tYLAIM TIZIMMALS A=M fACILITTES
PMTQ NOMTT rmy TZDM"
tMAIM UrrEDID04 TSUMUL
ZKTZTMOML Imin    tRIYASTROMM SEEM
VMAUSlll FUNENG SMCM
ftsnm FACILITIES m Vtb imn
K4c&ocnm= &MON
LUCLTAMRILON AMM COMIZZOL
PM       EKWUCMM        VrANDAM                     0.16   0.00   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.00               0.00   0.00   0-00
toonnxLto 1=12:8                MIT AIM tMAIM TSIMZRUA AOMS ?A=t=
Piss= umm
M" H TM
LUMADMIAS AVM =11=01,
sommsto OF C=TlMnCIFFOIT AIM OMAM TWaMAIA &CCSSA fkC=TZn
PWX" "mm FIRAT Takam&L
it     I VUSTIS
USOMWM-LU AM= T
otm
V%w_ llSIITORZIc                IBM=  ewfm  =IT
. . . .......... . ..
STITOTA&I FAIT A - TICINITC4  ASSZSTAM&                                              0-31   0.00   0.05   0.03   0.04   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
TIA:um                              TAMPOlf                         SCOVAASNZPS G YQUISlO VtSM                           OM      0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
1, .-t4nom          000,2&ZNM                       0.05   0.00   0-01   0.01   0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
covun   aD izamn                                    0.07         0.00   0.01   0.01   0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
cnwm"L                          ICMEAUU" 4 WORRUG WISZTS
rNrMrZCPAL CCNFUZP=
CUOURS AM SDUPAILS
SQITQTALs PAST A - TUWM                                                              0-17   0.00   0.03   0.03   0.00   0.0L   0.0&   O.Ot               0.01   0.01  0.00
tOfALI ftff   A                                                                                                             34-40   S-15 44-U   SS-09  14.69  13.10   4.21   6.78   7.97   0.41  2.39
ftal I                             ---------  013mmoll                                      omwoom
. ............. . . . .. .
311011-mum COOLDOWDU    GMLWMB                                          Pear An roun Tcoanu ACM theunm
P=4UMAM  rAVUD=t                                                        SMAQ.wAL9 lignm Pam
znAn rvau=- urxurzo sum
=mOmom of =Lm TEDMWA
SWUNCIT An KaCLUU   CUAPUMMA" FOR PAM A An I
TOMAL& ftic a                                                                                                                0-00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                0.00   0.00   0.00
MALI nW=r'g MU   OM                     FALTS A AND 1                                                                       24.40   1.8$ 46.23 S2.09   14.69   L3.19   4.21   4.71   7.97   0.67   2.19
----------



-39 -
02M                                                                           COmEz                                                    IINAICl  lnu
INTD2ATIONAL                             TAIIA 343
IMONSTIOCTION    0011)5W?             0T7E
AND DEYF!01W       or CHII.      (P31487  sE?01
PASTA £                                  2SCAIft1oN                         CG01040ET                                  FE L.OCAL TM"Al     01    W=0  ToTAL
2. UoN vzerz                     CILVIL WORKS               COwnSrCtION or BU1TS a                        4.:3        0.50  i.o7 4.57                     8.Go
souVIsION 0F COSSThOCI0?WfTH 0                                           0.50        0.00  0.0)  0.0)                    0.5)
EQUUKW              Mml~DTIom=SSAL b200IoIlOO AnD 0017R0L.S       0.10        0.00  0.04  0.04     0.19   0.04    0.50
SO3TOIA. SAN VIOENIE                                                                                       A.75s      0.50  ).4  4.44      0.18, 0.04    O."
a. up. omioM                     ClivI wIN                  CONSOTAOC?!O14 or 511.? I                     4.54        0.77  5.86  4.7 is                  MIS
0011110cfl0N Of illT! 2 A I 60071             5.84        0.70  S. 45  S.1is                 12.11
MING) AND OTZLITUS ZOR I                       1.54       0.15  1. IS 140                     SAS
UTINGe AIe OLTzIII  ZOEzI                      1.so       OIL.S  1.18  1.54                   2.44
OUIDIos                                       0.45        0.25  0.41  0.44                    0.09
01E1LMOATION 101 COIrAWU  TARO                4.71        0.78  4.13 4.82                    13.43
CCWTOXIU 7430                                  1.88       0.2.5  1.82  2.05                   4.0)
11t1100 05A11                                 0.45        0.05  0.59t 0.44                    0.87
2111011 wUS-              BASIS AMD ALUNOIIDE SER11I5 1. 2 & 5           2.40        0.32  2.44  S.7 5s .47
sFuY'101o  of c01SThrz0ucIvIL AnD Dm01240 wItS                           1.54        0.00  0.15  0.15s                   1.70
rMo:M,  AND  sUMMrs  CONTAtIWM CUMI                                      0.00        0.00  0.00  0.00     7.74   2.33   10.08
fl4Vi1os(ufrL OIONUIZNO AMD COIT10L           0.1It       0.00  0.04  0.06     0.19   O.0"    0.J0
USUTOTALS UPN AWtONI                                                                                      29.04       5.21 25.20 20.40     7.64   2.38   47.81
S. VALPALAXO                     IUEMU.?TZON OF NAJON SKl311ABILITATION0 OF SAXON SIXTH                   1.87        0.2)  1.80  2.03                    4.01
COU8TIOOTION of  S11      C4MS?ZCTIONOT BERTH 2                          2.84        0.35  2.41  2.14                    5.J2
CONS190T10 or 35.1  2                         3.58        0.42  3.2S  3.71                    7.20
0105700110  Of 35.1  I                        2.08        0.24  1.81  2.15                    4.3)
1881)0 41W UTITVIZ  ZOnE 5                    3.15        0.45  3.32  2.87                    7.81
?ATyIND M  01TU.1r13  . 202 1                  1.39       0.16  1.27  1.4)                    2.80
pAVINGa MW  TLITIES tons 1                     1.04       *.12  0.97  1.10                    1.1Is
ASICtLAIT IOUtDINO                            0.40        0.05  0.57 0.43                     0.61
SHE I                                         0.91        0.11  0.2*  0.85                    1.84
01sX30 WIRM               ALONIItDE 84A02 85.?!                          0.04        0.01  0.04  0.05                    0.08
s0umvisiO  or coms?UTo Icin?Z, MW 5111011  WOlE                          1.43        0.00  0.24  0.24                    2.48
UZ1vtptT AND 115713W1  CONTAINS Cu411                                    0.00        0.00  0.00  0.00     S.16s  2.45   10.65
9XVUU0NIITA1 240ET031N  AIM CONTROL           0.18        0.00  0.04  0.04     0.13   0.04    0.50
ZN1)0R   "ois1             15IT9S 1, I MWD 3                             1.03        0.00  0.10  0.10                    1.13
SUITOMsL VALFAU)8C                                                                                        21.02       2.14 17.01 10.1)     8.37   .3.1  51.95
SUBTOTAL& PART A * 7015 CUO'ONDT                                        55. 7)       5.85 4".I 52.01    14.52   4.96  138.21
6. T10FtAL ASSZSTAIDE            T102280T 51021.3           FOOT 143.1)1                                   0.24       0.00l 0.03  0.05                    O.38
PO0. AMW IaNLD TE2INALL ACCESS IAC=.2?1       0.58        0.00  0.04  0.04                    0.42
Pun"? NOMITT 753! TZ0I20AZ.                   0.15        0.00  0.01 0.01                     0.14
INLAND 11755004  T552KW.                      0.17        0.00  0.02  0.01                    0.1is
U2UMOIOT10W   ToUDIE      Z2&LRAThCTUXZ 1CT10,                           1.08        0.00  0.11  0.11                    1.20
WCALL4CAL, 1151124 OZOTO                      0.10        0.00  0.0   0.01                    0.11
Man11  IACILITZHS ZN Ytb ZIDIW                0.00        0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.08
HA20flIA  IlON                          0.50        0.00  0.05  0.05                    0.55
LI3XD4AOIL48O AIDES 0031100                  0.19        0.00  0.02 0.03                     0.21
P0RT U0VULOl0W  T 874248                      0.24        0.00  0.03 0.0)                     0.218
SIGIEE10 $TInS            PM0An MWM1.1 TERUJ ACCES PACU.2IES    0.33                 0.00  0.05  0.03                    0.55
Pisan1  WAIVES                                0.52        0.00  0.05  0.05                    0.57
FOUTO NM"T 1111?  t* L                        0.24        0.00  0.02 0.03                     0.28
LtIESTADOL/LOS ANDES CR0081L3                  0.24       0.00  0.03 0.03                     0.28
SUF.VSIO  OF CMST=OCTIO 3 AND MANLAD TE5MRAL3 &OinS FACUlTIE             4.1*        0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.14
FDZ2 2(UNIT 7011  TEDAI.                      0.33        0.00  0.03 0.02                     0.5.5
PisanO 3963010                                0.J         0.00  O.04  0."                     0.71
LI3ESADOI.LOS AND  ES IX02.u                   0,2.......jQ* 0.01  0.03                      O.".
OTICK                                                                   .0.533     -a.00  0.05  0.05                     0.58
P10.21  MTTO3IN           180J=0  00110!  MNT                            0.81        0.00  0.08  0.08                    1.02
50170TA1.. PAU A.- 110951C2  ASSISTANCE                                  7.32        0.00  0.73  0.75                    8.0S
S. Ua11im                        TIANS?0A?                  scEUussa?  & wIouNG VIsIT                      0.08       0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.10
*  UrDJOATIONM. CONF11DCES                      0.11       0.00  0.01  0.01.                   0.12
0001510 MWD Sf0114                            0.13        0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.1is
tLV003DL                  sCNLA3sEiFs & W2NL.M VIStS                     0.08        0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.10
UBTERN8I0NAZ. CONFUEScEKS                     0.11        0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.13
0001510AN MW S414                              0.13s      0.00  0.01  0.01                    0.15
805?OALs FAC? A * MINING0                                                0.44        0.00  0.07  0.0?                    0.75
OT*Mo 341 A                                                                                              45.71        5.85 44.84 52.81    14.52   A.98  1S?.88
anT0EFIISIT  0@WmAUT             cIVl woIws                 PORT? AND tIANLAD T55OXAL8 4At=8  fA0IIJII     2.74       0.52  2.52  2.85                    5.41
PM0-WAlES UY13A1S                                           pOAL.OCALE Pisan1 FORT                         5.2*       0.38   . 2.5.3.S                    6.54
MMAN  TbdSOnUlS  UTLITIE S 0F!.               0.80        0.11  0.63  0.83                    2.83
CONNSTOCTION 0f INLAND T55OMLS                                                 8.34   3.47    7.70
z0I5Imz AND 56mx10L       commm0tA1  r0t PARTSL A         AI             0.38        0.00  0.11  0.11                    0.48
101AZ. PAL                                                                                                 7.24       0.81  4.40  7.31      4.34   3.47   23.14
3(01AZ. P9.02W1' 1083005         PAMl A AiD a                                                             70.98       8.45 53.58 40.01    I0.75   9.42  140.13



- 40 -
Table 3. 1
CHILE
TRANSPORT TIjJJAtSRU_CTURX PR-OJECT
Estimated Schedulz oi Disbursements of Bank Financing
(US$ Million)
By the end of                                           Percentage
Fiscal Year
Annual          Cumulative     __
92                13.4               13.4            19
93                19.0               32.4            46
94                12.0               44.4            63
95                10.0               54.4            77
96                 9.0               63.4            89
97                 5.0               68.4            96
98                 2.0               70.4            99
99                 0.6               71.0           100
Assumptionst
Loan Signing Dates        January 31, 1992
Loan Effectiveness:       March 31, 1992
Project Completion:       December 31, 1998
Loan Closing Dates        June 30, 1999



- 41 -                              C H A R T
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TOTAL PORT TRAFFIC
(1981 - 1989)
30               .
28
26
24
22
20
18 
00
16
O  4
12
10
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Legend:  Exports                a
Imports               +
Int'l Traffic         J
National Traffic    a
Containers
Source: DIRECTEMAR, Boletines Estadisticos Anuales, 1986-90



-42  -                                                         C1ART 2
CHILE.
TRANSPORT IINRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Orfanlzat-on of the DAroctorate of Port Work. (MOP)
MINISTER OF
PUBLIC WORKS
NATIONAL
DI RECTORATE
ADVtSORY
GROUP
DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT                               DEPARTMENT                   DEPARTMENT
OF                     OF PLANNING   |                               OF                           OF
STUD1ES                 AND COORDINATION                           CONSTRUCTION                   EQUIPMENT
SUB-DEPARTMENTS       COMPUTER            PROJECT                                 SUB-DEPARTMENT
PCRT TERMINALS         CENTER            EVALUATION                               ADMINISTRATION
REGIONAL DIRECTORATES
I REGION       11 - 11i      IV REGION         V *V         VII-VIII-IX   |   REGION        Xi REGION      XII REGION
REGION
ARICA        ANTOFAGASTA      COQUIMBO      VALPARAISO      CONCEPCION     PUERtO  ONT      COYNAIQUWE    PUINTA ARENAS
LOCAL OFFICES
| S.ANTONIO  |       | VALDIVIA  |  |  CASTRO



CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Organization of ENPORCHI
MINISTER OF
TRANSPMRT
bATIONAL
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY
DIREC:TOR
SECRETARY'S                                                                 PLANNING
DEPARTMENT                              ..DEPARTMENT                                                                          t
LEGAL                                                                   CONTROLLER'S
DEPARTKENT                                                                 DEPARTMENT
SYSTEMS
DEPARTMENT
|   ARKETI:G,|    ENGINEERING ||SPECIAL                                                    |fINANCE    ||PERSONNEL   ||PROJECTS AND|
DEPARTMENT        DEPARTMENT          PROJECTS                                               DEPARTMENT  I      DEPARTMENT          CONtRACTS
_                   ~~~~~~DEPARTMENT                                                                                DEPARTM4ENT  
ANAGER   NAGER   ANAGER| | MAAGER  || MANAER  |   |MANAlGER  ||MANAGER   ||MANAGER   ||MNGR ||AAE  
ARICA     IOUIOUE     ANoAATIICOIB       VLAAS                      SAN AINTONIO  ITALCAHUANo &l   PUERTO     IICHABOIIPUT                  I
PORT     ~pOTPR                  ||POT|ORT             RT     | |PORT    | SAN VICENTE | | MOT               ||POT           ||AES|
7~~~~~~V7OTS                          PR



c     C
TRANSPORT INFRASTRIUCTURB PROJECT
Oranir-ram  of Prolect Administration
f       -           ~~~~~I I c.                      I
I .                                    I                1< T 1
INTERNINISTERIAL
PROJECT
COORDINATION UNIT                                                             WORLD
MRJECT
CONTROL
LIMIT
K
ENPORCHI           0 O P      l        INVU               RE        |      INTRATEL   |        IDEPLAN           SECTRA



- 45 -
CNRTt S
CH9ILE
3RANAPORT INFRAlTRUCIURE PROJECT
Year/Quarter
D E S C R I P T I o N                    1992         1993       1994       1995        199        1997        1996
1 2 3 4     1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4
1. Civil Works
(a) At San Vincente      Barth Coro
Cb) At San Antonfo       Berth I South 1,
2 and Berth 3
Reclamation
Paving & Utflitfes
BuftIdfngs-
fishing lifirf
Dredging
2e) At Vlparegiso       Baron Berth
Berth 3
Borth 2                                                       -
Borth I-                                                                             -
Paving L Utilftfes                                 _M        m*        m _
Bufidfngs
2. Equfpont
(a) At San Antonfo      Contafner Crnes
Envirowmntol
(b) At Vtlparafoo       Container Cran                                  rn
Environmental
(e) At San Vfcente      Envirormontol
D..AT -8
1. Civfl Works              Port Access Roads
Inlewd Terminals
Infrastructure
inland Teminanls                                         "               -           -
Ffshfng WMr
Oth r                                                                     mu -p
2. Equipasnt                Ni scatlanou^su                                -"                          -  |||"               |



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
The Transport Sector
A. General
1.        The backbone of the entire Chilean transport system (Map IBRD 23102)
is Route Five, a section of the Longitudinal Road that runs from the Peruvian
border in the north to Quellon on the island of Chiloe in the south. Between
Iquique and Puerto Montt, Route five is paralleled by rail. The transport system
also consists of a rather dense string of ports, which can be used for national
and international shipping, as well as a series of airports for local and
international traffic. Road transport represents about two-thirds of domestic
freight, railways carry one-fifth; coastal shipping and oil pipelines combined
carry about one-tenth; and air transport handles less than 1%. Some 95% of
international trade in tons is seaborne (some 90% of exports and about 80% of
imports by value). Passenger traffic is mainly by bus, although there is some
rail service.
B.  The Roads Subsector
2.        The Network.  The road network covers about 79,000 km, of which some
11,000 km (about 141) are paved either with cement concrete (3,600 km) or with
asphalt. Because of the country's long and narrow shape, the network is dominated
by three major stretches of north-south road (almost 5,000 km in total): the
Lonigitudinal Road (Road 5), from the First to the Tenth Region; the Austral Road
(Road 7), between Puerto Varas (north of Puerto Montt in the Tenth Region) and
Villa O'Higgins in the Eleventh Region; and Road 9 from Paso Baguales, on the
Argentine border of Torres del Paine, to Fuerte Bulnes, south of Punta Arenas.
Some 6,000 km of longitudinal and mayor transversal roads comprise Chile's
National Roads, which, with the Regional Roads, constitute the Basic Network of
some 23,000 km. The country also has some 56,000 km of Local Roads.
3.        Traffic. Annual average daily traffic measured at major toll stations
on the National Roads fluctuates currently between 2,000 and 9,000 vehicles
except in the extremities of the country. It grew yearly between 2.4% and 18.3Z
in the 1978-88 period, except for declines by 3.4%, 11Z and 3.8% during the
depression of 1982 and 1983, and in 1985, respectively. In the last four years,
1987 through 1990, the annual traffic increase has been above 10%. The share of
passenger cars in traffic increased until it reached 68% in 1983, whereas the
share of trucks decreased. Since 1982 the share of trucks, particularly with
three or more axles, has increased considerably.
4.        Road Motor Vehicle Fleet. The registered, motorized road-vehicle
fleet, after a very rapid increase in the late sixties and in the seventies, is
now growing more slowly. It reached about one million in 1988, or about 77
vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, versus about half that amount in 1976.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
5.        Road User Charges.  The current structure of the road user charges in
Chile is generally adequate. Total revenues from taxes on road transport are
(over US$600 million equivalent per year in the 19800) between two and three
times road expenditures (some US$225 million equivalent per year), but there is
some justifiable cross-subsidization between private cars and trucks. Further
improvements to the system to -eflect price variations as well as to be used as
an instrument to d6.rease congestion and discourage axle overloads are being
introduced under Loan 3120-CH.
6.        Weight  Control  Regulations.  In  the  early  1980s  the  Government
introduced a sophisticated system of weighing-in-motion, that considerably
reduced truck overloading in the country to an average of less than 0.5Z at
fixed stations. Further efforts to improve enforcement of vehicle axle load
limits are currently being pursued by the Government in certain forestry areas
where violations still persist.
7.        Road Maintenance and Pavement Manaaement. Under the last three Bank
(road) projects, Chile's Ministry of Public Works successfully established a
modern      road  maintenance   and  pavement  management   organization  and
institutionalized the use of the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM). This effort has placed Chile among the leaders (world-wide) in the
preparation of highway investment and maintenance programs for both the country's
internal use as well as for the preparation and execution of Bank road sector
projects. The application of the model is currently being expanded to all the
regions in the country.
C. The Ports Subsector
8.        The Port System   Chile has more than 5,000 km of coastline, along
which there are about 70 port installations, excluding fishing jetties and
passenger terminals, of which some 26 are commercial ports involved in
international traffic. Of the latter, 11 are publicly owned by EMPORCHI and 15
are private. The EMPORCHI ports are all general cargo ports. Except for Lirquen
port in the Concepcion area, which also handles third-party traffic, the rest of
the major non-EMPORCHI ports are used by industries and serve specific state and
private interests.
9.        Port traffic.  The 26 comercial ports account for some 90S of all
port traffic. The remaining 10 percent is primarily comprised of bulk liquids
from the southern-most Twelfth Region where the Chilean oil fields are located.
In 1990, the commercial ports handled some 28.6 million tone of international
traffic, 39Z of which was handled by ENPORCHI ports (Table 1. 1). The trend of the
international traffic in the 1980. has been a rather flat behavior of around 17
million until 1985, followed by a vigorous increase of about 14.52 pa. onwards
(Chart 1). National coastal traffic reached about 9.2 million tons in 1989,
showing a similar trend to the international traffic during the 19809.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
10.       In 1989 and 1990, EMPORCHI ports handled some 11-12 million tons of
international traffic and around 2 million tons of national coastal traffic per
year (table 1.2), which represents respectively around 39Z and 22X of the total
volume moved by the country. Almost 80S of that tonnage passes through four
ports (Antofagasta, Valparaiso, San Antonio, and Talcahuano/San Vicente ports).
In exports, two-third of EMPORCHI vzlume is handled, in roughly equal parts, by
San Vicente (forestry products) and by Valparaiso/San Antonio (most general
cargo, fruit and copper); three-quarters of EMPORCHI imports (general cargo) are
moved through Valparaiso/San Antonio; about 80% of the international transit
traffic passes through Arica and Antofagasta; and about 40Z of EMPORCHI's
national coastal traffic is handled at Antofagasta and San Antonio.
11.       In value terms, EMPORCHI's share of the total Chilean port traffic is
substantially higher than its percentage based on tons, because the company
handles at least 90S of all general cargo in the country. Even though the non-
EMPORCHI ports are free to handle any traffic (their own or that of third
parties), except in the Concepcion area, where the private port of Lirquen is
growing rapidly, the handling of third party traffic is limii:ed. Moreover, most
of the private port facilities are specialized terminals handling low to medium
value bulk cargo.
12.       During the 1980s, container traffic has increased significantly by
almost fivefold, reaching in 1989 a value of over 2.1 million tons in about
177,000 containers (124,000 loaded and 53,000 empties), all of which were moved
through the EMPORCHI ports. Of the total amount, Valparaiso accounted for about
104,000 (inciuding 25,000 or 24Z empties) or almost 60Z. Container traffic is
expected to experience a significant growth in the next decade (see Annex 2).
13.       Retulatory Framework. Chilean ports are controlled by the Navy, under
the jurisdiction of DIRECTEMAR for ship movements, and MINTRATEL (mainly through
EMPORCHI), for commercial operations. Port construction is the responsibility
of the DOP of MOP and EMPORCHI.
14.       Port Tariffs.  Based on the present structure of the public ports
system, EMPORCHI levies charges for wharfage, cargo transferred through its
ports, storage and other services. Tariffs, however, do not reflect the cost of
providing the individual port services. In an effort to revise EMPORCHI's tariff
system to ensure that tariffs for the different services rendered are promoting
an efficient resource allocation in the port subsector, a port tariff study was
carried out in 1988 by the Catholic University of Chile and financed through loan
2504-CH. The study proposed a structure based on two charges for the use of the
port facilities --wharfage and cargo transferred--which would take into
consideration basically the cost of port infrastructure and the degree of
congestion at the different ports, and a separate tariff policy for the rest of
the port services, the latter based strictly on market considerations and
ensuring coverage of d'rect and economic costs. The actual restructuring of
EMPORCHI's tariffs or second stage of the study is being included in the proposed
project.



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
15.       Port Staffinz. Following the institutional restructuring of the early
1980s, EMPORCHI reduced its total number of staff from 3,193 in December 1980,
to 1,394 (56Z) by end-1982. The most important reduction was that of port
operators as all stevedoring functions were transferred to the private sector.
The ratio of operators to professional and clerical staff was 8:1 in 1960, fell
to 2.4:1 by 1975 and to a mere 0.35:1 in 1988. Of course, the change in skill
mix reflects the new orientation of EMPORCHI as a regulatory rather than
executing organization. The total number of employees remained at about 1,400
until 1986/87 when staff was increased to slightly over 1,800 to meet the ports'
increasing need for security personnel.
16.       Port Operations.    All EMPORCHI ports are operated by private port
stevedoring companies under concessionary agreements, except for wharfage and
storage, which remains EMPORCHI's responsibility. All cargo handling equipment,
as well ad one of the gantry cranes in Valparaiso, are provided by private
operators. The rest of the gantry cranes are owned by EMPORCHI, but have been
transferred to private operators under lease agreements. EMPORCHI is basically
responsible for providing and maintaining port infrastructure and for
coordinating the activities of the different port users in the port area.
D. The Railway Subsector
17.       The Network. Chile has about 6,903 km of track providing service to
the general public of which 3,989 km are broad gauge (1,676 mm), mainly the
railway south and west of Santiago, and the rest is meter gauge (1,000 mm),
mainly in the north.   About 1,800 km of this track is electrified: namely,
towards the south to Temuco, to the west to Valparaiso and part of the way to San
Antonio. About 745 km of the track is welded, mainly to the south. The railway
is badly deteriorated, as negligible amounts were spent on the repair and
maintenance of the infrastructure, motive power, and rolling stock in the past
two decades.
18. Traffic and ODerations. Railway traffic has been declining. Currently,
freight traffic is around 6.5 million tons per year or about 1.8 billion ton-km.
The number of passengers moved is about 8 million.   Traffic in the Southern
network is heavily concentrated in a few bulk commodities. Mining and forestry
products account for about 80X of the traffic in tons, and nine products (logs,
copper, cellulose, coal, steel, wheat, cement, fertilizers, and sugar) produce
852 of the total tonnage. The volume of forestry products for exports (including
logs) is increasing rapidly and has promising potential for exploitation by
railway.
19. Recent Reforms. Vigorous reforms of the railway system were initiated in
the 1970s. In continuation of these reforms, the 1980s saw the Railway Company
(EFE) undergo further trimming, and a drastic reduction in size took place, more
in keeping with its economic role; staff levels were drastically cut, from about
27,000 to less than 7,000 by mid-1986; operating losses were reduced by 502 in
real terms, and Government subsidies were reduced gradually from an average of
US$50 million per year in the 19709 to almost zero in the 1980s. However, in
spite of the quite remarkable achievements, EFE's losses continued, and in 1986



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
EFE's debt peaked at some US$125 million mainly because of its reluctance to
reduce the size of its passenger services and its large assets that continued to
be incompatible with its long term economic role. A vigorous program to sell
unremunerative assets in the last few years reduced the debt to the present US$88
million.
20.       More recently, passenger services have been substantially curtailed,
and a decision has been made at the highest levels of Government to seek private
sector participation in the management and operation of the railways. Although
the exact form in which privatization will be done is not yet decided, serious
efforts are underway to restructure the railways.
E. Airports
21.       Airport Infrastructure. Chile has an adequate number of airports,
about 128 in total, of which twenty-one have commercial activities, and seven are
used for international flights. No major expansion plans are envisaged at this
time in the subsector, except for an expansion of the international passenger and
cargo terminals in Santiago for which bids have already been called. The
construction of a proposed second runway for Santiago has been postponed
indefinitely in view of its dubious economic justification at this point.



- 51 -
Page I of 3
CHILE
TRANSPORT INPRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Current *nd future Traffic in Proiect Portg
1.        As indicated in Annex 1, the total port traffic in Chile has shown a
substantial increase in the 1980., especially in the period 1985-89 when the
foreign trade in tons increased at an annual rate of about 14.51, and the
national traffic at more than 8S per year. In the same period, the number of
tons moved in containers more than doubled.   The current Government has
underscored its intent to maintain the ongoing overall economic policy framework,
endorsing the concept of an open, free-market-oriented economy vith special
emphasis on exports. The overall result. and indexes obtained so far suggest the
immediate prospects for the economy are good, and consequently a continuation is
expected of the significant increase in transport demand registered during the
1980s.
2.          Estimates of the traffic forecast for the ports of the project
during the period of economic analysis are discussed below. In all cases, the
forecast is based on specific estimates made for the major comodities moved by
each port, and responds to very conservative assumptions made on the expected
evolution of the traffic demand.
A. Proiect Ports of the Vth Renion
3.        The total traffic moved through the two main ports of the Vth Region,
Valparaiso and San Antonio, increased from about 3.7 million tons in 1987 to
approximately 5 million tons in 1990, equivalent to an annual traffic growth rate
of over 102. The share of the different traffic categories moved through these
ports have remained relatively stable during the last years, reaching the
following percentages: 351 of imported general cargo, 202 of fruits, 201 of
exported general cargo, 121 of copper, 8S of cabotage, and a combined 51 of
wheat, corn and transit traffic. The percentages of containerized cargo has also
shown a significant increase in the last few years, reaching in 1990 the
following values: 471 of imported general cargo tonnage, 701 of exported general
cargo tonnage, and 37S of cabotage.
4.        In 1986, detailed traffic projections were prepared for both ports by
a consultant as part of the studys "Plan de Dcearrollo Portuario Vs. Region y
Factibilidad la. Etapa," and the estimtes have been updated by ENPORCBI in March
1991. The first task was to compare the previous projections for the period
1987-90 with the actual values. The total traffic was higher than originally
projected in the base case, showing increases of 61 in 1988, 51 in 1989 and 91
in 1990. In the last year, the major icreases were registered in general cargo
(312 for imported, almost double for exported), which was partially offset by
decreases in fruit (91) and copper (30). In the caso of frult, the originally
projected values for 1987 and 1988 represented the real values almost exactly,



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
but the significant difference occurred in 1989 with a decrease of about 100,000
tons, or approximately 12Z, with respect to the original forecast. This was
mainly due to the problems caused by the charges presented in the US against
Chilean grapes (in Chile known as the "Case of the Poisoned Grapes"), which was
never proven and consequently is not expected to have any significant effect on
future exports. For instance, in the following year (1990), the exported volume
of fruit already showed a significant increase of 11.52 over 1989.   Copper
exports were lower than forecast almost exclusively in refined copper, which were
the result of some problems in the production of two mines, El Teniente and
Enami, which are in the process of being solved.
5.        The methodology followed by EMPORCHI to update the traffic forecast
was basically to use the real traffic values reached in 1990, and then apply the
original methodology used by the consultant, modified as needed to reflect recent
developments and available information. The general results are presented in
Table 1. Details can be found in the report, 'Proyecciones de Carga Puertos de
la V Region, Valparaiso-San Antonio," EMPORCHI, March 1991, which is included in
the Project File.)
6.        Traffic assignment to Valparaiso and San Antonio was also done in the
same report taking into consideration the results of computer models used by the
consultant, differential values of land transport cost, degree of attractiveness
of each port, and historical trends. The results are included in Table 2, and
details can be found in the above mentioned report.
B. Port of San Vicente
7.        The traffic in the Port of San Vicente in the VIIIth Region has
increased from about 1.7 million tons in 1985 to over 2.8 million tons in 1989,
which represents an annual growth rate of over 132. The traffic mix has
consistently shown an increase of the share of forestry products, which in 1989
reached over 70X of the total San Vicente traffic,  the rest being mainly
fertilizers, fishmeal, and saltpeter. San Vicente is the most important port in
the Concepcion area, moving about 422 of the port traffic in this area, and has
reached 902 utilization in 1990 with an average per ship waiting time of almost
4 days.  The ratio of average ship waiting time over its berth service time
resulted in around 0.75, or about three times the recommended UNCTAD value for
normal port operating conditions. Congestion conditions in San Vicente are
becoming a real problem.
8.        In 1987, detailed traffic projections for San Vicente were carried out
by consultants as part of the study "Ampliacion de la Capacidad Portuaria de la
VIlIth Region."   Those projections were updated by EMPORCHI personnel in June
1990, given the dynamic behavior of the port demand in the last years, and the
significant participation of some products, notably chips, that were only
starting to be exported at the time the report was prepared. The forecast was
carried out in detail for forestry products that are as noted the main commodity
for San Vicente, while the remaining products were forecast mainly on an
historical basis.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
9.        The traffic  forecast  is based on the installed  and anticipated
production capacity, local consumption, required inputs, and availability of
forestry product resources in the San Vicente port hinterland of the following
items: cellulose, paper, panels, sawn wood, wood for pulp and chips, and logs.
The first three products use wood for pulp and chips, whereas sawn wood uses
logs. Finally, the difference between the volume produced and locally consumed
for each of the six items yields the exportable volume; what will finally be
forecast as exports depend on this amount, international prices, and the expected
conditions  of the world market.    Table  3 depicts  the production,  local
consumption, export and exportable excedent forecast of forestry products, while
Table 4 gives the traffic forecast for San Vicente, including non-forestry
products.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Tabbe 1
TMNSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Overall Traffic Prolctons for Valparalo and San Antonlo
fin Th tons)
_________________________         1991     1992     1993      1994    1905     2000     2005     2010
Uquid bulk Import                 143      150       157      164      172      218     275      348
Copper concentrate                260      260       340      340      340      340      340     340
Wheat Import                       50       50       50        50       50      60       0        0
CornImport                        112      133       143      154      165      236      337     482
Copper refined                    487      568       647      708      748      740      747     712
FruIt breakbulk                  1,056    1,190    1,214    1,236    1,261    1,390    1,543   1,724
General cargo export              271      25       250      263      279      294      426     583
Bulk oargo export                 87        94       102      110      118      174      256     376
General oargo Import              569      487       500      428      444      525      639     780
Bulk ocgo Import                  433      454       475      498      522      660      834    1,055
Translt                           50        48       49        47       49      44       49      54
Cabotage general loaded           105      107       110       32      33       37       42      47
Cabotage general unloaded         21        22       22        11      11       13       14       18
Cabotage bulk unloaded            244      244       244      133      133      133      133     133
Containor genoral owgo (W/tare)  1,927    2,440    2,440    2,750    2,934    4,112    5,588   7,704
Total traffic both ports:       5,813    6,311    8,741     6,924    7,260    6,965   11,223   14,354
80u--o -MPORCHI,                                                               - 1991
Source: EMPORCHI, Mwarh 1991



- 55 -                                           ANNEX a
Table 2
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Traffil Projeotiort by Ports
Eln Th tonsl
a) Velparaleo
1991     1992     1993    1994    1995       2000      2005     2010
Copper refined                 326      373       419      456      359     357       359       349
Fruit breakbulk                849      957       976      604      731     709       787       879
Genera tcargo export           182       173      168      177      168     197       286       392
Bulk cargo export               1         2        2        2        2       3         4         6
General trgo lmport            485      415       426      368      378     447       545       S66
Bulk orgo Import                43       45       47       49       82       68        83       104
Transit                         47       46       46        48      47       42        47       52
Cbotag, general loaded          38       40       43        30      31       35        40       45
Cabotag general unloaded        21       22       22        11      1 1      13        14      16
Cabotaga bulk unloaded          25       25       25        25      25       25                 25
Centainer general cargo (wltar.)   1,619   1t888    2,050    1,375   1t467    2,058  2,794     3,652
Total traffic Valpawale:     3,636    3.985    4,224    3,338    3,291    3,9        4,983    6,a8
b) San Antonio
= = . _=.- .                                          =.        =        =        -  =
1991     1992     1993    1994    1995       2000      2005     2010
Uquid bulk Import              143       150      157      164      172     218       275       348
Copper concentrate             260      260       340      340      340     340       340       340
Wheat Import                    50       50       50        50      50       50        0         0
Corn Import                    112       133      143      154      165     238       337       482
Copper refined                 161      19S       228      252      389     383       388       363
Fruit brakbulk                 207      233       238      433      530     661       756       US6
General oargo epot              89       85       82        88      92       96       140       191
Bulk orgo expo*t                88       93       100      108      117      171      252       370
General argolmpont              84       72       74        63      66       78        95       116
Bulk orgo impoft               390      409       428      449      470     595       752       960
Tr nsh                          3         2        2        2        2        2        3         3
Cabotage genera tdoabd          67       67       67        1        2        2        2         2
Cabotage gnenra unloaded        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Cabotage bulk unloaded         219      219       219      108      108      108      108       106
Continer general oargo (wAare)  306      360      390     1,375    1,467    2.056    2,794     3,8S2
Tot traffio San Antonbo       2177    2,327    2,518    3,586    3,969    5,016      6,241    7,969
Total traffic both ports:     5,813    6,311    6,741    6,924    7,260    8,9      11,223    14,354
Source: BMPORCI4I, March 1991



CHILE
TRA W  HFRASTRUCTURE PREC
PRodn Local Consumoton. and Bxwodabtl Excedwt Projecions of Fds  Products
1990                      1992                        1993                       1995                           2000
Loca                      Local                        Local                      Loca                           Local
Units    Expor.   Conr   TOTAL    Expor.   Cons      TOTAL   Expor.    Cc- s.   TOTAL   Expet.    Cons.        TOTAL    Expot.    Cons. TOTAL
Sam Wood _      L ton    787       932    1.720      939      967    1.907     949       1.003    1.953      949      1.074     2.024     1.096     1288    2.384
N34PUS         lb. no                      5.302                      5.482                       5.879                         6240                        7.350
CaBosM         th. ton    581      418      999    1.119      458    1.577    1.356       563     1.909     1.356      553      1.909    1267        642    1
Papa_MO         tu ton    129      349      478      132      386      518     132        386       518      170       443       613       136       566     702
IMPLITS        O. =n=                      4.816                     6.665                        8.450                         8.450     8=450
P-nss     _     b ton     88       210      298      102   _ 210       312     102        210       312      102       210       312       102       210     312
wwurs          nt a        =                563                        574                          574                          574                         574
TOTAL NPITS                                                                  __  _
Smnbbe Wood   ml in3                       5.302                      5.482                       5.679                         6240                        7.360
Pulp Wood      tL. no                      5.369                     7.239                        9.024                         9.024                       9.024
4Wood          mLi nT3
Sawb Wood   tl. m                          7.500                      7.500                       7.50                          7.500                       7.500
Pulp Wood     tm. Re                       7.300                     7.300                        8.100                         8.100                       7.600
Chips          Lbf m3                      1.002                      1.111                        1.137                        1.179                       1.389
TOTAL      _    l n3o                      15.802                    15.911                       16.737                       16.779                       16.489
Exptabl         l. ne                      2.198                     2.018                         1.621                        1260                          150
Exesdat
Savb   Wood  tb m'n                        2.933                      1.172                         213                          256                         -36
Pulp&chips    tb. u                        5.131                      3.190                        1.834                        1.515                         115
TOTAL_____
Souw: Vroy.ccen Trwnsferen  d. Carp, Sbhtsm  Pouado Vi Regwn EMPORCH, June 1990
L.) NX



- 57 -
labl 4
CHLE
TR3ANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT-
Forecast San VloAnte Port Traffic
Ith. tonsl
Product              1990            1992           1993            1995            2000
Sawn Wood                   787            939             949            949             1.096
Cllulose                    5681          1.119           1.356          1.356            1.287
Paper                       129            132             132            170              136
Panel                        Be            102             102             102             102
Sawable Wood                912           1.068           1.146          1.302            1.691
PulJ Wood and Chips        2.610          1.043            189            227
'lotai Foresty             5.107          4.403           3.874          4.106            4.92
Other                      1.964          2.047           2.130          2.381            2.798
TOTAL                      7.071          6.450           6.004          6.487            7.090
Source: 'Proyeoci6n Traneforenola de Carga, Sletema Portuarlo Vill Regl6n, EMPORCHI, June 1990



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic and Environmental Eligibilitv Criteria for
Sectoral Components (Part B)
I. Economic Criteria
A. Screening Process
1.        The identification of potential projects for inclusion in the proposed
Loan is based on these principal sourcest (i) the continuous infrastructure needs
search conducted, on a regular basis, by the Executive Secretariat of the IIC;
(ii) the research and evaluation work being carried out by agencies such as:
CINTRA, SECTRA, DNV, DOP, EMPORCHI, DIRECTEMAR, MIDEPLAN, Subsecretaria de Pesca,
etc.; and (iii) the Regional and local authorities which also observe
deficiencies and/or identify infrastructure requirements. Upon receipt of the
different ideAs, the IIC will screen the identified projects, select those which
are most likely to be included in the program and apply the following economic
evaluation procedures to confirm project feasibility, optimize project design and
determine budgetary priorities.
B. Types of Projects Subject to Economic Evaluation
2.        In general terms, an economic evaluation is to be conducted at varying
levels of detail depending upon project scope and degree of certainty of project
feasibility, for the following types of projects:
* Port improvements;
* Conetruction of fishing berths;
* Improvement of port access roads;
* Supporting infrastructure at selected inland terminals;
* Other infrastructure works;
* Goods.
C. General Methodology for Economic Evaluation
3.        General principles are included in the publication: "Inversion Publica
Eficiente, un Continuo Desafio", March 1991 by NIDEPLAN, which should be taken
into consideration for any evaluation. Some more specific aspects are included
below, which should also be taken into consideration to evaluate economically
potential projects. Some general observations are made (especially in para. 4)
that could be applicable to other infrastructure works.
4.        Port  Improvements.  In  general,  the benefits  generated  by  port
improvements can be identified as savings (comparison of the with and without
project situations) in either some or all of the following categories: (i) port
handling costs; (1i) operating and maintenance costs; (iii) ship waiting time
and other costs due to port capacity sLortage; (iv) ship service time costs; (v)



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
hinterland transport costs; and (vi) seismic cost. The without-project situation
should reflect no significant new investments except the ones either under
construction or soon to start, but will include improvement on existing
conditions in such a way to set a "strong" without project situation.   Cost
during construction should be included as part of the analysis. Generally, the
economic evaluation is based on normal traffic, but special cases may justify the
inclusion of generated traffic, if significant. If relevant, traffic projections
will include:   normal, pessimistic and optimistic cases.   In the economic
analysis, the appropriate number of alternatives should be considered, and each
meaningful subsystem from the operational viewpoint should be evaluated on an
incremental basis.   If relevant, stage construction will be analyzed as an
alternative. During this marginal analysisS each increment of investment that
proves to be feasible should integrate the without-project situation for the
following analyses. For major projects, it may be advisable to utilize computer
models to simulate port activities. When relevant, special consideration should
be given to seasonal variation of demand and to determine appropriate transport
or non-transport means of reducing its effects in project design.
5.        Construction  of  Fishing  Berths.    The  study  on  administrative,
operational and financial features for small-scale fishing ports will recommend
the appropriate methodology to: (i) assess the expected attitude of future users
to utilize this type of infrastructure, and (ii) evaluate this kind of project,
from the economic and social viewpoint. If subsequently approved by Government
and Bank, it will be used to assess the merits of these projects.
6.         Improvement of Port Access Facilities.  The main benefits of this
kind of project go well beyond the pure port-related benefits, because they may
include urbanistic, touristic, city traffic and safety, environmental, social,
and historical benefits, which quite possibly may largely exceed the mere port
benefits. Nevertheless, these may be significant in terms of savings in vehicle
operating costs and time of the trucks (and eventually rail trains) accessing the
port under current severe congestion conditions. Congestion is not covered by the
HDM III model (Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model, developed by the
World Bank), but this matter is at present being studied by DNV. One possible way
of reducing the impact of the city on port truck operating costs is to study the
possibility of prohibiting the operation of the trucks during the city peak
hours, which undoubtedly might create another kind of disadvantage to the port
truckers. Normally, the investment for this kind of project is very expensive
because of the high degree of urbanization in the project area, and its
feasibility can only be analyzed in the overall urban context. Consequently, the
project includes a comprehensive urban study on access roads to the project
ports, which will include the economic evaluation of alternatives in a broad
urban context.
7.        Supportina Infrastructure at Selected Inland Terminals. The proposed
loan may finance the provision of transport, power, and water supply at selected
freight inland terminals which, according with Government decisions, would be
built by the private sector, after proving their economic feasibility. The
provision of those facilities would eventually be considered as an incremental
investment to the main project, and as such their benefits would be the expected



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
savings by comparirig the project alternative(s) with the without-project
situation, i.e., using the existing transport, power, and water facilities. In
some circumstances, the latter may be impractical, in which case the facilities
should be considered an integral part of the main project; in this situation, the
feasibility of the whole project, including the cost of providing transport,
power and water, should be the only requirement.
8.        Goods. The economic analysis will be based on comparing benefits and
costs as differences between the with- and without- project situations.
D. Major Analytical Parameters
9.        Feasibility Indices. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. For each project,
an estimate of the First Year Benefit/Cost Ratio, Net Present Value and the
Internal Rate of Return should be prepared. To test the sensitivity of the
evaluation, critical variables are to be adjusted in accordance with possible
alternative scenarios. In case land user time savings were included as benefits,
the indices should be calculated with and without that value.
10.       Shi, Time Saving Values. Liner vessel tariffs are normally set by the
liner conference system, and consequently are somewhat inelastic (at least in the
short to medium run) to any reduction in ship waiting and service time in
specific ports.  Therefore, the benefits to Chile of those kind of improvements
may not be fully realized soon.  As a result, the daily ship cost of liner
vessas. will be taken, conservatively, as 50% of the corresponding values
periodically published by the World Bank applying the Shipcost Model. For charter
ships, tariffs are negotiated on a case-by-case basis; consequently, the effect
of port improvements are perceived almost immediately. Therefore, for charters
full-ship costs per day should be taken.
11.       Economic and Shadow Prices. For each project two basic evaluations
will be carried out: economic and social. The economic evaluation considers all
costs and benefits measured in market prices reduced by the corresponding taxes
and duties. The social evaluation also considers other factors relevant to the
economy, which translates into a set of adjustment factors periodically prepared
by HIDEPLAN. The opportunity cost of capital will be 121 in both cases, unless
revised by the Government and the Bank.
12.       Period of Analysis. The period of analysis will be consistent with the
expected life of the proposed infrastructure project.
13.       Optimum Times For each project the optimum time (maximum value of NPV
at the opportunity cost of capital) should be established.
II.  Environmental Criteria
14.       For addressing the environmental effects of Part B components of the
project, the "Guidelines for Environmental Assessment (EA) of High-Priority
Infrastructure Projects", MIDEPLAN (Attachment 1) are adequate, insofar as they



- 61 
ANNE 3
Page 4 of 4
condition all future subprojects to a process oft (a) environmental screening
to assess the potential environmental hazards, and (b) provide general terms of
reference for the required EA studies of such projects.  These requirements
mirror closely the Bank's own requirements for environmental screening and
assessment!' of sector loan projects in which the specific subprojects are not
identifiable at the time of loan approval. Hence, all works to be carried out
under Part B components of the project will be subject to environmental screening
according to the MIDEPLAN TORs, and financing of these components will be
conditioned on Bank and MIDEPLAN clearance of the EAs for these subproject
components.   All subprojects will be required to satisfy both the Bank and
MIDEPLAN requirements for environmental screening and assessment.
III. Proiect Selection and Execution
15.       Based  on the  results  of economic  feasibility  reports  prepared
following the guidelines mentioned above and on satisfactory EA of each project,
the selection of potential projects to be financed by the proposed loan would be
discussed and agreed at the regular semiannual consultation meetings as part of
project implementation. As a selection criteria, projects would be considered
candidates if they show an ERR greater than 122 and if possible environmental
impacts are minimized to acceptable standards. Works that do not qualify under
the established criteria could be replaced by new ones as agreed between the
Government and the Bank.
16.       Once the project is approved, agreements will be reached between the
Government and the Bank on procurement procedures, executing agencies and the
legal bases for this.
1/   The Bank Guidelines for EA for all sectors are contained in the
following Bank docuwents: (a) Annex "A" of the Operational Directive
(OD) 4.00, and (b) Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Volumes I & II.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Guidelines for Environmental Assessment (EA) of
High-Priority Infrastructure Prolects l
1.        Among the requirements to finance high-priority project components yet
to be fully identified is the necessity to carry out an EA for each of them.
Since location and scope of each component may have different environmental
impacts, it would be necessary to develop an EA methodology appropriate to the
specific characteristics of each one to ensure that:
(a) all elements that may effect the environment are identified and their
impact in improving or deteriorating it are evaluated; and
(b) actions and/or measures necessary to prevent, reduce and/or eliminate
existing and potential environmental conditions are proposed.
2.        Based on the above,  all infrastructure projects proposed  to be
included in the Government investment plans, will require a preliminary EA to
identify all possible causes of positive or negative environmental impact on
human beings and animal species, either through water, air, or soil pollution,
and verify their potential impact against internationally accepted standards.
3.        After completion of the preliminary EA, a detailed EA should be
carried out, if required, including a review of impact on the bio-geophysical,
ecological, socioeconomic and cultural aspects as listed below:
(a) Bio-geophysical and ecological:
- air, water, soil, noise and ecosystem
(b) Socioeconomic and cultural:
- present and future land and natural resource utilization and conditions;
- human settlements' relocation;
- lifestyle changes induced/caused (i.e., increased vehicle traffic, urban
congeetion, etc.)
- temporary increase of project-generated employment and its influence on
the job market;
- project-induced variations of real estate value;
- archeologic, historic, artistic and tourism sites; and
- overall infrastructure and services.
1/   The. F- -nish version entitled: "Linsamientos para la Evaluacion de loo
Atractos Ambientales de lo Proyectoo Sectoriales del Propuesto Proyecto
Sectorial de Infraestructura I (Transporte)", MIDEPLAN, is included in
the Project File (Amnex 10).



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
4.        To be used as  plannlng tools, the EAs should include alternative
actions for the achievement of the environmental objectives at the least possible
cost. In addition, the EAs should be used as an important element in project
evaluation and selection.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 3
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Description
1.          The proposed project, which would be carried out during a seven-year
period bEtween 1992 and 1998, includes two parts:
Part A: comprises MOP's 1992-95 high-priority Port Investment Program,
complemented by private sector investments to ensure that the port works included
in the above program become fully operational upon their completion. In addition,
this part of the project includes technical assistance and training to: (i)
determine the economic, financial and technical feasibility, as well as the
institutional features of other high-priority port-related investments included
in Part B of the project; and (ii) review and redefine institutional objectives
and functions of the Government's infrastructure sector agencies; and
Part B: comprises other high-priority MOP's port-related investments,
complemented by private sector investments to develop further intermodal
transport.
The following is a detailed description of the components included in the
project:
Part A - 86.22 of the project cost
1. San Vicente (Map IBRD 23105) (5.92 of the project cost)
- construction of a general cargo berth (berth Cero), including filling,
paving and utilities of the back up area;
- supervision of construction of the berth Cero;
- acquisition of equipment and instruments to improve (by the private
sector) and monitor the environmental port conditions;
2. San Antonio (Map IBRD 23104) (42.32 of the project cost)
- conatruction of a container berth (berth 3) to replace the remains of
the existing one damaged during the 1985 earthquake, including paving and
utilities of the back up area;
- construction of a multipurpose berth to replace berths 1 South and 2
that collapsed during the 1985 earthquake;
- reclamation of about 4.6 Ha. at the seaward side of existing breakwater,
including the construction of a protection dike, for the development of
the container yard and inner roads described below;
- construction of a container yard, including container terminal
building.;



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
- construction of port inner roads to serve the port area to be developed
under the project;
- dredging to deepen the port basin and the areas alongside berths 1, 2
and 3, and the port basin to a depth of -12m;
- construction of a fishing wharf to relocate the fishing fleet currently
using the remains of berth 3, which will be replaced by the new container
berth;
- supervision of construction of above civil works;
- acquisition of equipment and instruments to improve (by the private
sector) and monitor the environmental conditions, including monitoring
devices to measure level of copper concentrates that may be generated by
the existing bulk terminal located at berth 1;
- acquisition and erection of container cranes by private port operators
(6.3% of the project cost).
3. Valparaiso (Map IBRD 23103) (32.5Z of the project cost)
- reconstruction of berth 3 to convert it into a modern container berth,
including demolition of existing old sheds and buildings, and existing
pavement to construct a container yard;
- construction of a container yard, including paving, utilities and
container terminal buildings;
-reconstruction a berth 2 to convert it into a modern multipurpose berth,
including paving and utilities of the back up area;
- reconstruction of existing general cargo berth 1 to realign it with the
new berths 2 and 3, including paving and utilities;
- rehabilitation of the existing Baron berth to enable it to handle mainly
fruit exports during the peak season;
- adapting existing quay cranes for use on reconstructed berths;
- dredging to deepen the areas alongside the new berth 1, 2 and 3, and
the Baron berth;
- supervision of construction of above civil works;
- acquisition of equipment and instruments to improve (by the private
sector) and monitor the environmental port conditions;
- acquisition and erection of container cranes by private port operators
(6.62 of project cost);
- detailed engineering for berths 1 South, 2 and 3;
4. Technical Assistance (5.02 of the project cost)
This project component consists of consultants' services to:
(i) determine the economic, financial and technical feasibility of high-
priority MOP's port-related investments included in Part B of the project;
(ii) define the institutional aspects of the small-scale fishing ports,
the Libertador-Los Andes Corridor and inland freight terminals;
(iii) review and redefine the objectives and functions of the Government's
infrastructure sector agencies;



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(iv) study and make recommendations on port tariffs, access roads and
environmental standards;
(v) carry out the engineering design for fully justified high-priority
investments included in Part B of the Project;
(vi) support the PCU.
5. Training (0.5Z of the project cost)
(i) scholarships for, and working visits of professional staff of the
Government agencies concerned with port planning and development, and
inter- and multimodal transport;
(ii) courses and seminars in the country and abroad for the professional
staff referred to in proceeding paragraph and private port and inland
terminals' operators/investors;
(iii) travel expenses and fees for attendance of professional staff of
Government agencies to international conferences on port administration,
port planning, dedicated terminals and cargo-handling systems, and
intermodal transport.
Outline terms of reference and scope of the consultants services and
details of the training component are given in Annex 7.
Part B - 13.8Z of the project cost
- construction and/or upgrading port access roads in the urban areas
affected by port traffic at the project port.l
- construction/upgrading access roads to sites where the private sector
decides to develop inland freight terminals;
- construction/modernization of small-scale fishing ports, including
wharves, operating and working areas and ancillary building;
- construction works to provide water supply and power to sites where the
private sector intends to develop inland freight terminals;
- construction of the Libertador-Loo Andes inland terminal;
- construction of inland freight terminals by the private sector (4.82 of
the project cost); and
- acquisition of equirment and materials required to complement high-
priority port-related works previously described.



- b7 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Port ComDonents
A. Background
1.        In 1986 and 1987, feasibility reports of the major project component.
were carried out by consultants, and in early 1991, they were updated by EMPORCHI
incorporating relevant changes in the main parameters of the analyses; these
documents form part of the Project File (Annex 10). The following is based on the
results of those studies modified as necessary to reflect the appraisal mission's
judgement.
B. General Methodolcoav
2.        Economic analyses were carried out for a number of selected sub-
projects on a marginal basis and for the project as a whole. For this purpose,
it was necessary to define individual components in investment increments which
represent a meaningful sub-system form the operational viewpoint. The analyzed
sub-projects are the followings
(i)  construction of two container berths one in San Antonio and one in
Valparaiso, as one single sub-project given the complementary roles
of the two ports for this kind of traffic, and reconstruction of Baron
pier in Valparaiso to operate as a reserve capacity when Valparaiso
is under construction;
(ii) construction of multipurpose general cargo berths at San Antonio;
(iii) construction of multipurpose general cargo berths at Valparaiso;
and
(iv) construction of a new general cargo berth at San Vicente.
The first three sub-projects were analyzed in sequence, and the definition of the
without project situation in each case included the previously analyzed sub-
component if found to be feasible.
C. Main Characteristics
3.        The aim of the analysis is to define a short term program to satisfy
the demand by the turn of the century for the ports of both Regions. In this
short period, the without project situation is characterized as follows: (i) no
new bertha are constructed, (ii) existing berth are not reconstructed, (iii) no
major repairs intended to extend the life of existing structures are undertaken,



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
and (iv) maintenance and repairs necessary to preserve existing facilities are
routinely performed. The damages produced by the 1985 earthquake in the ports of
the V Region have shortened the life of some existing facilities to few year.,
which was contemplated in the analysis. Thus the aggregate number of berths in
the ports of Valparaiso and San Antonio was estimated to be 16 in 1991 and 1992,
14.5 in 1993 and 1994, 13 in 1995 and 1996, dropping to a minimum of 11.5 from
1997 onwards.  The decreasing trend is worrisome especially considering the
expected significant traffic growth in these ports.   In the event of the
consideration of a new project in the influence zone of the projects, it should
be analyzed on an incremental basis considering that, for this analysis, the
without project situation will include all the components found feasible and
financed by the project.
4.        Traffic assignment for the ports of Valparaiso and San Antonio
presents an interesting case because the two ports handle basically the same kind
of cargo, they are located close to each other (about 60 km apart) and the land
transport networks feeding to each port are very similar. In the feasibility
report of 1987, it was proved that the transport costs of connecting each traffic
generator with either port were practically the same and therefore are not
determinant of traffic assignment to these ports.   In the latest study bw
EMPORCHI, the criteria for assignment of the different kinds of vessels (full
container, bulk carriers, reefer and multipurpose) to the different types of
berths in each port was to minimize the aggregate congestion cost.  Special
congestion curves (waiting time vs. 2 of utilization) were derived for different
number of berths available and for each kind of vessel, and they were calibrated
with statistical data of the port of Valparaiso. The final result is close to
a 50-50 percent split between the ports, but obviously would depend, to a certain
extent, on decisions to be taken by the shipping companies.
5.        For the container berths sub-project, the following benefits for the
peak and non peak months, were considered:
(i)  hinterland transport cost savings in moving the boxes from/to the
ports to/from final destination/origin;
(ii) port handling cost savings which comprises  savings in the cost
(lifting, moving through the terminals and overhead costs) of handling
containers in the new specially-designed container berth as compared
with the costs of handling them in the existing not specially-design
container berths;
(iii) ship service time cost savings through the utilization of high speed
cranes which will reduce ship berthing;
(iv) ship waiting time cost savings as a result of greater service capacity
and higher speed in the with project situation, which will undoubtedly
reduce the probability of ships waiting for berth space;



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Paga 3 of 4
(v) capacity shortage cost savings because the project will provide
increments of capacity which will help to alleviate or eliminate those
expected shortages and thus reduce the extra costs (in terms of
diversion   to   other   ports   or   other   costly   decisions   by
exporters/importers) which would otherwise be associated with the
inability to move the cargo through the ports; and
(vi) seismic risk benefits because in the event of a major earthquake, the
aseismic nature of the project structures will assure more remaining
capacity in the with project situation, thus avoiding or reducing the
extra costs associated vith a complete collapse of the ports.
6.        Liner vessel tariffs are normally set by the liner conference system,
and consequently are somewhat inelastic (at least in the short to medium run),
to any reduction in ship waiting and service time in specific ports. Therefore,
the benefits to Chile of those kind of improvements, may not be fully realized
at the beginning. Thus, to calculate the benefits in the economic analysis, the
daily ship cost of liner vessels was taken, conservatively, as 50% of the
corresponding values published from the World Bank Ship Cost Model. For charter
ehips, tariffs are negotiated on a case-by-case basis; consequently, the effect
of port improvements are perceived almost immediately. Therefore, for charters
full-ship costs per day was taken.
7.        The general cargo berth at San Antonio will add capacity to the system
because as a result of the 1985 earthquake the existing facility where the new
berth will be built is not operational. Consequently, the type of benefits, for
the peak and non peak months, will be hinterland transport cost savings, ship
waiting time cost savings, capacity shortage cost savings and seismic risk. This
kind of project will not generate port handling and ship service time benefits
as the container berths sub-project did, because those concepts will not change
between the with and without project situation.
8.        The general cargo berth at Valparaiso will not add capacity to the
system because the existing berth is currently operational. The basic benefit
will be the reduction or avoidance of the extra costs associated with a major
earthquake which in the without project situation could very likely produce a
complete collapse of the port, while with the project the aseismic nature of the
structure could almost completely avoid the disaster. The project will also
generate some minor benefits in hinterland transport cost and negative benefits
due to congestion during construction. This sub-project is supposed to be started
in 1995, and a salvage value was added at the end of the period of analysis to
represent the present value of the remaining life of the structure beyond the end
of that period.
9.        The general cargo berth at San Vicente will add badly needed new
capacity at the Concepcion area, and the main benefit will be reduction in
congestion conditions in the area which is calculated in terms of savings in ship
waiting time.



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
10.       All costs and benefits used in the analysis are based upon expected March
1991 prices and shadow-priced as necessary. The latter are based on periodic review
and publication by MIDEPLAN. The opportunity cost of capital was assumed to be 122
and the period of analysis is 1991 to 2010.
II.       A major conclusion of the 1987 feasibility report for the Vth Region is
that, for the general cargo berths, most of the berth requirements result from the
demand for fruit shipping capacity during the peak month, March, when the fruit
traffic volume represents about 352 of the annual value.   Consequently,  the
consultant carefully analyzed whether that peak might be modified. Two basic
possibilities were considered: (i) shift the shipping date of some of the fruit away
from the peak period, and (ii) provide alternative means to move the fruit during
the peak and thus reducing the demand on the required number of berths. For
different reasons, both possibilities appear to be unfeasible. With respect to the
first one, two types of fruit account for the March peak: apples and grapes, and the
peak results from the fact that March is the end of the grape season and the
beginning of the apple season. In the case of grapes, the U.S.A. is the major
customer, and it requires that April 20 is the deadline to receive grapes, and as
such, the product must be loaded aboard ship and depart Chile no later than April
5. Although the date is subject to change based on political pressure, the view of
Chilean exporters is that it is unlikely to happen. With respect to apples, a major
selling point for Chile is that its crops matures earlier than that of its major
competitors, i.e. New Zealand and South Africa. For this reason, the best price is
received for the earliest shipments, and there is constant pressure to ship at the
earliest possible date. In summary, the shift of the fruit shipment outside the peak
period seems highly unlikely. With respect to the second possibility mentioned
above, alternative means of shipping fruit could be the use of airfreight,
containers, or lighterage, but analyses conclude that they should be discarded
simply on commercial grounds.
D. Results of the Economic Evaluation
12.       In the analysis it was assumed that containers will mainly be transported
from/to Chile in full container ships, but about 800,000 tons will continue to be
moved by multipurpose ships, as is happening now.
13.       Tables I through 4 present the results for the different sub-projects
analyzed. The economic rates of return (ERR) were high for the individual units of
analysis as well as for the project as a whole, ranging from about 182 for the
general cargo berth at Valparaiso, to 712 for the general cargo berth at San
Vicento. The construction of two container berths at Valparaiso and San Antonio,
which represents about 602 of the total port civil works, has an ERR of 472. The
overall ERR for the port components of the project is 46S.
14.       The high returns obtained for the different components reduce the need
for carrying out elaborate sensitivity analyses to test the solutions. Nevertheless,
a sensitivity case was run increasing by 152 the investment costs, reducing by the
some percentage the benefits, and a combination of both cases, and the ERRs remain
acceptable (Table 5), ranging from 152 to 592 i: the most demanding combination.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
CHiLA
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Eoonomic Evaluation of Two Container Terminals, One In San Antonio and One In Valparaiso and
Reaonstruction of Baron Borth
(in Th US$)
Year    Investment  Maintenance   Hlnterland   Port Handling   Ship Service   Ship Waiting   Capacity   Seismic   Cash Flow
Cost                     Cost         Cost         Time          Time      Shortage     Risk
1991         (3,297)        0            0           0              0            0           0           0       (3,297)
1992        (10,236)       (66)          0           0              0           444          0           0       (9,658)
1993        (20,110)      (271)          0           0              0          3,559         0           0      (16,822)
1994        (13,295)      (673)         240         498          2,303         1,949         0        4,340     (4,638)
1995         (7,594)     (939)          482        1,342         2,981          242        3,036      11,211     10,761
1996         (6,568)    (1,091)         200        1,35s         3,395          501        4,677      12,568     15,037
1997            0        (1,222)       (983)       1,514         3,231         2,731      14,580      13,648     33,509
1998            0        (1,222)      (1,219)      1,704         3,e44         3,971      16,825      14,249     37,952
1999            0        (1,222)      (1,434)      1,807         4,140         5,906      18,601      14,590     42,388
2000            0        (1,222)      (1,598)      1,828         4,715         9,199      20,079      15,117     48,118
2001            0        (1,222)      (1,742)     1,922          5,244        16,213      21,430      23,238     65,083
2002            0        (1,222)      (1, 90)      1,990         5,823        36,784      22,909      23,940     68,318
2003            0        (1,222)       (485)       2,100         6,588        41,649      24,520      24,304     97,632
2004            0        (1,222)        917        2,180         7,374        41,866      26,191      24,988    102,294
2005            0        (1,222)       2,355       2,353         8,240        41,829      27,990      25,418    107,011
2006            0        (1,222)       4,253       2,459         9,175        41,810      33,145      26,301    115,921
2007            0        (1,222)       1,351       2,571         10,179       41,667      72,424      28,881    153,881
2008            0        (1.222)      (2,051)      2,774         11,253       41,481      114,293     27,744    194,252
2009            0        (1,222)      (7,660)      2,909         12,403       41,117      159,111     28,600    235,258
2010            0   :   (1,222)      (14,3 i0)     3,053         13,638       40,581      206,669     29,522    27,31
8 NPV(12%) |  (41,504)  |  (5,882)    |  (3,873)   8,589         25,636  7|9,610          129,509     83,898    27204
Source: EMPORCHI end Mision's estmate, July 1991



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of General Cargo Barth at San Antonio
fin Th US$)
Year    Investmnnt  Maintenance   Hinterland   Ship Waiting   Capaolty    Seiamic   Cash Flow
Coat                     Coat        Time      Shortage     Risk
1901          (224)        0             0           0           0           0        (224)
1902        (12,903)       (4)         (21)          (0)         0           0      (12,928)
1993            0         (263)         286         557          0          871       1,452
1994            0         (263)         270        2,030         0          915       2,953
1995            0         (263)         260        3,575         0          257      3,629
1996            0         (263)         393        3,326         0          257      3,715
1997            0         (263)         724        (355)         0          254        361
1998            0         (263)         698        (351)         0          902        987
1999            0         (263)         603        (347)        694        1,9011    2,589
2000            0         (263)         406        (278)       2,033       2,823      4,724
2001            0         (263)         174         n260)      3,721      5,986       9,350
2002            0         (263)         (52        (261)       5,428       7,740     12,593
2003            0         (26          (196)       (175)       6,480       9,963     15,610
2004            0         (263)        (180)       (122)       6,386      11,002     16,26
2005            0         (263)        (17_ )       (22)       6,480      11,255     17,274
2006            0         (263)        (163)         43        6,369      11,154     17,160
2007            0         (263)        (151)        208        6,389      11,319     17,503
2006            0         (26          (144)        390        6,388      11,174     17,54
2000            0         (263)        (132)        we         6,388      11,268     17,901
2010            0         (263)        (123)       1,024       6,388      11.220     16,257
NPV(12%)    (37,498)     (1,523)      (1,490)     O4,39       11,551  |  21,243 |27,2131|
S   ERR - 29% M
Source: EMPORCHI and Ml"ion's *stUato, July 1991



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
CHIlE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Genwral Cargo Berth at Valparaiso
fin Th US$1
Year    Investment  Maintenance   HintotIand   Ship Waiing    Seismic    Cash Flow
Coat                     Cost        Time          Risk
1991            0           0            0            0           0            0
1992            0           0            0            0           0            0
In3           (463)         0            0            0           0           (463)
1994            0           0            0            0           0            0
1995         (3,561)        0           242        (2.282)        0          (5,620)
1996         (4,094)       (72)         204        (3,430)        0          (7,392)
1997         (3,264)      (154)         (34)         252         395         (2,804)
1998            0         (219)          0            0          715          498
1999            0         (219)          0            0          728          510
2000            0         (219)          0            0          745          528
2001            0         (219)          0            0         1,139         920
2002            0         (219)          0            0         1,162         943
2003            0         (219)          0            0         1,188         969
2004            0         (219)          0            0         2,220        2,001
2005            0         (219)          0            0         4,400        4,181
2006            0         (219)          0            0          ,7m         6,554
2007            0         (219)          0            0         9,325        9,107
2006            0         (21)           0            0         12,111       11,892
2000            0         (219)          0            0         14,941       14,723
2010            0         (219)          0            0         18,030       72,586
NPV(12%)     (5,912       (742)         225        (2,918)     16,446        7,098
ERR - 18%
Source: EMPORCHI and Mlaion's etmate, July 1991



- 74 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of General Cargo Barth at San Vicente
(in Th US$)
Year    Inveatment   Maintenance   Ship Waiting   Cash Flow
Cost                      Time
1991         (8,272)        0              0        -6,272
1992         (1,728)       (80)          1,953         145
1993            0          (160)         7,189        7,029
1994            0         (160)          7,285        7,125
1995            0         (160)          7,285        7,125
1996            0          (160)         8,434        8,274
1997            0          (160)         8,434        8,274
1998            0         (160)          8,538        8,378
1999            0          (160)        12,189       12,029
2000            0          (160)        16,073       15,913
2001            0          (160)        16,073       15,913
2002            0          (160)        16,073       15,913
2003            0          (160)        16,073       15,913
2004            0          (160)        16,073       15,913
2005            0          (160)        34,678       34,518
2006            0          (160)        34,678       34,518
2007            0          (160)        34,678       34,518
2008            0          (160)        34,678       34,518
2009            0          (160)        34,678       34,518
2010            0          (160)        94,457       94,297
11 NPV(12%) 1   (6,978)   (968)       187,833        79,887J
ERR - 71%
Source: EMPORCHI and Mission's eatimate, July 1991



- 75 -
ANN_EX 5
Table 5
CH LE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURi PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
ERR
Sub-project       Cost     Benefes   Cost (+15%) and    Base
(+15%)    (-15%)    Benefit (-15%)
1. Two container
berths (one In San
Antonio and one       45%        44%          42%o            48%
in Valparaiso) and
Baron berth
2. Multipurpose
general cargo
berths at San         27%       26%           24%             29%
Antonlo                   _     ___.___
3. Multipurpose
general cargo
berths at             16%        16%          15%             18%
Valparalso
4. New general
cargo berth at San
Vicente               65%       64%          f59%/0           71%
Source: Mission's estimate, July 1991



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Einancial Analysis of EMPORCHI
A. Introduction
1.        This annex presents an evaluation of EMPORCHI's past and projected
financial situation, including its capacity to finance its share of the project
and to service the corresponding portion of the Bank loan.The discussion covers
the following main aspects: institutional set-up, costs and tariffs systems, past
financial performance, future financial performance, project financing plan and
financial conditionality for the project.
B. Institutional Set-up
2.        EMPORCHI was created in 1960 (Law No. 290 of the same year) to replace
the "Servicio de Explotacion de Puertos" which belonged to Customs in the Finance
Ministry. It was placed under the Transport Subsecretariat of the Ministry of
Economy, which in 1977, developed into the MINTRATEL. By law the task of EMPORCHI
was the exploitation, administration, and maintenance of the ports under its
jurisdiction. In addition, EMPORCHI had exclusive rights over receiving, handling
ard storing goods within the port areas and for handling over these goods to the
owners. It was also authorized to rent and/or grant concessions for the use of
port property for periods of up to ten years.
3.        By the end of thL 1970's, Chile was   facing a substantial labor
monopoly in the ports and efficiency had deteriorated to a point where ship
queues were reaching alarming proportions. To tackle the above situation, by the
end of 1981, the then Government promulgated two laws (Nos. 18,032 and 18,042):
the f.:st, opening the profession of port worker to anybody who could obtain a
pex,nt from DIRECTEMAR, and allowing the workers to offer their services either
independently or to institute join private stevedoring companies; and the second,
abolishing EMPORCHI's monopoly by transferring responsibility for transfer and
storage of goods, except in special ceses, to the pr-vate sector, and by
replacing the individual ports into Limited Liability Authorities and EMPORCHI's
headquarters into a holding type National Ports Corporation. This second law also
authorized the private sector to participate both in the provision and operation
of ports. Except for the incorporation of the private sector, Law No. 18,042 was
never fully applied. Finally, Law No. 18,966 of 1990 abolished Law No. 18,042,
establishing that the sector would continue to be ruled by the original Law No.
290 (1960) modified, however, to exclude EMPORCHI from stevedoring and cargo
handling functions which would remain in private hands, except when required to
provide for temporary shortages.
4.        EMPORCHI is responsible for administrating eleven commercial public
ports along the Chilean coast, namely, Arica, Iquiqtue, Antofagasta, Coquimbo,
Valparaiso, San Antonio, Talcahuano and San Vicente ( the last two often
consxdered as one complex), Puerto Montt, Chacabuco and Punta Arenas. Although



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
the performance of each port is measured separately, EMPORCHI exercises a very
tight control over the ports' financial management. The ports are required to
transfer daily their total revenues to headquarters, which in turn transfers
back, on agreed dates, amounts required for payment of salaries, suppliers and
other previously approved outflows. The ports cash surpluses are therefore
managed by EMPORCHI's main office. Regarding capital investments, even though
each port formulates annually its own investment program, it is reviewed and
revised as necessary by the main office taking into account the entity's long
term development plans as well as the Government's general investment framework.
5.        On  financial  management  aspects,  EMPORCHI  must  abide  by  the
regulations imposed by the Ministry of Finance   to all autonomous public
enterprises. Specifically, the Ministry of Finance is entitled to request from
the latter, by decree, the transfer of all cash surpluses generated  to the
national budget, up to a maximum of each entity's net income after tax. Finance
makes use of this privilege and EMPORCHI after payment of the income taxes it is
subject to, has annually been transferring its profits to the Government. Even
more, considering that the amount to be transferred is determined at the
beginning of each year during the budget approval process, and EMPORCHI is
required to make advanced monthly payments, there have been years (para 6) in
which, because of lower than expected financial results, actual transfers have
exceeded the entity's net income.
C. Cost and Tariff System
6.        In 1986-87, in order to improve its financial and management systems,
EMPORCHI assisted by the Catholic University of Chile, embarked in a series of
reforms including the introduction of a new chart of accounts, cost accounting
by port and service, and a decentralized budgeting system. The new costing system
was aimed at providing information to evaluate operational and financial
performance by center of responsibility and to provide the basis for the
development, on a second stage, of a new tariff structure based on the margiral
cost of services prov'ded. The tariff study followed, in 1988, and was carried
out also by the Catholic University of Chile with financing from Loan 2504-CH.
The study proposed a tariff structure based on two different charges for the use
of port facilities --wharfage and cargo transferred-- and a separate tariff
policy for the rest of the services provided. Charges on wharfage would aim at
alleviating congestion in the system through improved resource allocation, while
charges on cargo transferred would pursue cost recovery of port infrastructure.
The level of charges for the rest of the services would be based strictly upon
market considerations, ensuring, though, coverage of direct and economic costs.
However, complementary work is now required in order to put into practice the new
tariff structure recommended by the Cathol'c University. This task will be
undertaken by ME and MINTRATEL, with Bank assiL ance, under the proposed project
and financing for ouch purpose has beez. included in the technical assistance
component.



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
D. Past Financial Performance
7.        EMPORCHI's actual income statements for the period 1982-1990 are
presented in Table 1 of this Annex. A summary follows:
Item                      1982       1984       1986      1988       1990
(In mid-1991 Chil $ billion)
Operating Revenues        16.1       14.'      18.5       19.3     19.5
Working costs              (6.3)     (5.6)      (6.3)     (6.8)    (6.7)
Subtotal                   9.8        9.1      12.2       12.5     12.8
Depreciation              (3.6)      (3.1)     (2.9)      (2.8)    (2.7)
Subtotal                   6.2        6.0       9.3        9.7     10.1
Non Operating Income       0.1       (1.5)     (3.5)      (1.6)    (1.4)
Interest and Tax          (2.5)      (1.9)     (3.3)      (3.7)    (4.1)
Net Income                 3.6        2.6       2.5        4.4      4.6
Working Ratio               39         38        34          35       34
Operating Ratio             62         60        49          50       48
Since the modernization of Chile's port sector, which took place in 1981,
EMPORCHI has had a highly profitable operation in financial terms. The main
reason for this performance has been the considerable reduction in operating
costs resulting from the 562 reduction in its staff (from 3,193 employees in 1980
to 1,394  by end-1982) which took place as a result of the transferring of
stevedoring activities to private operators. During the period under review
(1982-90) EMPORCHI's working and operating ratios have averaged 36 and 54,
respectively, and its net income before tax has averaged US$16 million
(equivalent) p.a., or 332 of revenues. Since the entity, by law, is required to
pay income taxee equivalent to 502 of income and, in addition, to transfer its
full net income after tax to the national budget, EMPORCHI has remained an
important source of funds to the Government over the last decade. Furthermore,
income tax payments have averaged US$8 million (equivalent) p.a. during this
period, consistent with the 50S tax rate, but the annual income transfers to the
national budget, have averaged US$11 million , indicating that EMPORCHI in
addition to its net income after tax has transferred also part of its
depreciation reserves.
8.        EMPORCHI's actual balance sheets 1982-1990 also reflect the entity's
healthy financial position (Table 2). Despite the fact that EMPORCHI transfers
to the national budget its full net income (after tax), which constitute an
important portion of its cash availability, the entity has maintained good
liquidity ratios. During the last five years (1986-90) the current ratio (current
assets/current liabilities) has averaged 2.4. This situation is mainly the result



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
of the entity's very low level of short-term debt with both banks and suppliers.
Its debt/equity ratio, measured as long-term debt divided by net equity, has
been very low, remaining below 2% during the last 9 years.
9.        Actual  income statements  covering the  1984-1990 period  for the
Valparaiso, San Antonio and San Vicente ports have been included, respectively,
as Tables 3, 4 and 5 respectively. All three ports show considerable improvement
in their financial performance over the last seven years due mainly to higher
traffic levels and lower costs. At Valparaiso, working and operating r,atios
improved from 87 and 135, respectively, in 1984, to 27 and. 38 in 1990.
Particularly striking has been the continuing cost reduction at this port, where
the average cost per employee has dropped by 42% between 1984 and 1990. San
Antornio's financial improvement over this period is also worth noting ( working
and operating ratios reached 24 and 47, respectively, in 1990) as, following a
dramatic drop in traffic in 1985 and 1986 in which its installations were badly
damaged by the 1985 earthquake, the port has now recovered old traffil: levels and
continued implementing, successfully, the staff rationalization program (the
average cost per employee has dropped by 38% between 1984 and 1990). Finally,
San Vicente's financial performance also improved considerably, with working and
operatirg ratios declining from 32 and 54, respectively, in 1984, to 19 and 32
in 1990. At this port, the improvement has been made possible mainly by a steady
growth in traffic, as except for 1990, traffic levels have increased by an
average of 13% p.a. between 1984 and 1989.
E. Future Financial Performance
10.       One of EMPORCHI's main objectives, would be to remain a financially
viable entity within a framework of market competition with the private sector.
It would pursue maximizing efficiency in operations by handling more
traffic with lower operating costs, under a tariff structure designed to promote
an efficient resource allocation in the port sector. EMPORCHI should generate
sufficient revenues to cover its operating expenses, debt service charges and a
fair contribution to its capital needs, which in no case should be lower than
its share of the Bank project. An analysis of EMPORCHI's consolidated projected
financial situation is presented in paragraphs 11 through 13 following. A brief
discussion cn the expected results of project ports (Valparaiso, San Antonio and
San Vicente) is presented in paragraph 14 of this annex. Attachment 1 to this
annex summarizes the main assumptions used in the financial projections.
11.       EMPORCHI's projected income statements  for the period 1991-2000 are
presented in Table 6 of this annex. EMPORCHI's operating results would remain
sound over the next decade; the average working ratio is expected to remain at
the 36 level, and the average operating ratio would improve (from an average of
54 in the 1982-1990 period) to 51 during the forecast period. This performance
would be made possible as a result of a projected 3.5% p.a. average i- rease in
traffic, and therefore in revenues, which would offset minor cost increases
expected under some expense categories.
12.       EMPORCHI's cash position (Table 7) should also remain healthy over the
forecast period. The entity would generate annual operating cash surpluses



- 80 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
(revenues less operating expenses) increasing gradually from the equivalent of
US$29.0 million in 1991 to US$36.0 million in the year 2000. This internal cash
generation together with the depreciation reserves would place  EMPORCHI, after
meeting its tax obligations, in a very favorable position with regards to project
financing. During every year of the forecast (1991-2000), the entity would be
in a position to finance its full investment program, including both its share
of the Bank project (counterpart funds) which it would channel to MOP's budget
through the Ministry of Finance, and its own investment requirements.   In
addition, EMPORCHI would continue having surpluses, except for 1992-1993, to
transfer to the national budget on account of its profits or net income. Only
during the first two years of project execution (approximately 1992-1993), when
the bulk of the project investments are expected to materialize, EMPORCHI will
have to suspend the transfer of funds to the national budget on account of
profits.
13.       EMPORCHI's balance sheet situation (Table 8) over the next ten years
would also remain favorable. Since the enzity would continue to generate cash
surpluses it would make sure to retain the funds necessary to maintain a
reasonable current (liquidity) ratio pr4.or to transferring its available net
income to the national budget.   The debt/equity ratio would also remain
reasonable, even with the Bank loan, as it would never exceed 20Z.
14.       The projected financial statements for Valparaiso, San Antonio and San
Vicente are presented in Tables 9 through 17 of this annex. The three ports show
a similar performance pattern, in financial terms, throughout the forecast
period; all three of them will generate profits, increasing slightly each year,
with working and operating ratios remaining or improving gradually to reach, in
the year 2000, 29 and 38 respectively in Valparaiso, 24 and 43 in San Antonio and
13 and 28 in San Vicente. Valparaiso and San Vicente will generate sufficient
funds to finance from their own resources the investments planned for each port.
Although San Antonio's will also generate cash surpluses to contribute to
financing its investments, during 1992, 1993, 1995 and 1996 it will need to
borrow funds from other ports (mainly Valparaiso) to complete the amounts
required. In 1997, however, San Antonio will start with the repayment of these
loans, which should be completed by about the end of the forecast period.
15.       The forecast shows that no increases to tariff levels, in real terms,
would be required to meet the entity's financial needs. It has been agreed,
however, that a restructuring of the present tariff structure, to ensure that
tariffs are contributing to an efficient resource allocation in the port
subsector under an environment of market competition with the private sector,
will be carried out before the end of 1993. In addition, even though the entity's
past and projected financial situation undoubtedly reflect excellent operational
and financial management, it has been agreed with the Government at negotiations
to include the following financial covenants in the legal documents of the loan
in order to ensure continuity of present practices during the project period:
(a) during the forecast period (1991-2000), EMPORCHI will achieve working ratios
no higher than 46; and (ii) EMPORCHI will take all measures necessary to provide
for each fiscal year funds from internal sources equivalent to at least its share
of the total cost of EMPORCHI project components after meeting cash operating



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
expenses, debt service requirements (including for the proposed loan), increases
in working capital and other significant cash outflows other than capital
expenditures.
F. Sensitivity of Financial Forecasts
16.       The projections assume that working costs would increase by 3.52 p.a.
in real terms during the forecast period. Even if these costs grew at twice this
rate, this would not affect the entity's capacity to carry out the project, given
the profitability of its operation. It would only marginally reduce the amounts
to be transferred to the national budget on account of profits. Revenue
projections are considered to be conservative as they assume a modest average
annual traffic growth of about 3.5%, as compared to the 6Z annual (average)
growth of the 1982-1990 period.
!



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
EMPORCHI'S ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS 1982 - 1990
(in Mid-1991 Chit S Million)
1982     1983     1984    1985      1986     1987     1988     1989     1990
................................................  ----    ----. .. ....  .......  ----
OPERATING REVENUES
Aharfage                          3302    3147    4055    5382        5496     5787     5768     5817     5588
Cargo Handllng                    5825     4864     5723    7635      7616     8817    7911      8531     80C9
Storage                           3478     1337    2052    2440       2179     1787    2893      2995     2846
Port Dues                          403      384      435      524      490     1112     1438    1371       1447
Acopto                             157      144      248      337      369     1653       39       43       42
Other Services                    2960     1880     2158    2498      2326     1439     1290     1370      1482
.....    ..... . . .... . . ... .....  ..... . . .....  ..... . . .....  ...... .............. ..........
TotaL                        16125    11756    14670   18816    18475    20595    19338    20128    19465
OPERATING EXPENSES
Saelaries                         2676     1799     1969    2095      2052     2148     4370     4354    4413
Maintenance                       1504     2184     1647    1706      1859     1780     1118      726      1573
Administrative Expenses           2135     1957    2007    2285       2375     2525     1356     1287      664
.....    -----.  . .....   ..... . . .....   .....      .      . .....  ....... .. ........... .. ........... ..
Totat Working Costs           6315     5940     5623    6086      6286     6453     6843     6367    6650
Depreciation                      3616     3200     3147    2810      2856     2922     2814     2812     2744
.....    ..... . . .....            ..... .  . .....  ..... .  . .....  -----... ....... ....... ..... .... ..
Total Operating Costs         9931     9140     8770    8896      9142     9375     9657     9178    iFS94
NET OPERATING INCOME              6194     2616     5901    9919      9333    11221     9681    10949    10071
NON OPERATING REVENUES            1829      826     1121    1679       668      384      310      365      434
NON OPERATING EXPENSES            1379     1150      382    8227    2680        571     1381      503      728
REVALUATION (SURPLUS)/LOSS         376     2880     2328    1742      1488     1282      507      787     1063
} .... .. ......... .. ......... .......    ..... .......   ..... .......    ..... .......    -----
NON OPERATING INCOME                74    -3204   -1589   -8289    -3501    -1469    -1577       -925    -1357
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST
AND TAX                         6267     -588     4312    1630      5833     9751     8104    10024    8714
INTEREST EXPENSE                    76       49       to       36       43       51      -20     -160     -449
INCOME TAX                        2599        0     1823    1114    3312       4775    3766      4740     4612
.....    .....    .....   .....    .....    .....    .....    .....   .....
NET INCOME                        3593     -637    2449       480     2477     4925     4358     5445     4550
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
Working Ratio                       39       51       38       32       34       31       35       32       34
Operating Ratfo                     62       78       60       47       49       46       50       46       48
Tonnage 7Pansefrred               8504     8302     9182    9354      9415    10838    11771    13612    13639
(In tons-mtlifon)
Number of Employes                1394     1396     1396    1435      1488     1364     1372     1357     1466
Average Revenue per Ton (000)     1896     1416     1598    2012      1962     1900      1643     1479     1427
Average Cost per EmployeCOOO)   1920       1288     1410    1460      1379     1575     3185     3209    3010
Traffic Growth p.m. (0)                      -2       11        2        1       15        9       16        0
scurce: Enoprchi (July 1991)



- 83 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
EONRMCHI'S ACTUAL BALANCE SHEETS 1982 - 1990
(In Mid-1991 Chil S Mifliions)
1982    1983    1984    198S    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
....    .......    ..... .....   ........----    ....  ........    ....  --
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash nd Banks                     378     244      242      270      412      753     336      557      250
Short-term Investments           9727    9182   12995   10141    5002    1159          117    1534    1695
Receivables from Operations       940    1010    2014    3289    2517    2648    1591    2053    1747
Other Receivables                  34      310    1678      287      834      516     366      218      221
Inventories                       297     250      323      250      376     291      282      189      173
Other Current Assets               34    1776      185      524       47      217     614       62      135
.....   .....    .....  .   .a  ......  .....  ..... . . .....  ..... . . ..... ............ ...........
Total Current Assets        11410   12771   17437   14761    9189    5585    3306    4614    4220
FIXED ASSETS
Land                             33S9    3722    3658    3654    3654    7909    7734    7715    7836
Port Irstallations             102699  100683   99401   91130   92743   93706   92703   92554   94965
Equipment                       14195   13284   12902   10920   11536   11930   10970   11266   11412
Other Fixed Assets               1341    3310    3049    2984    2956    4469    5393    5757    5910
.. ..  .....     ..... . . .....   .....     .      .. ..... ... .....  ----- ...... .... ........ ..
Subtotal                   121594  120998  119009  108688  110890   118014   116801   117291   120123
Less: Depreciation             -17159  -18103  -18330  -16824  -19597  -22326  -24010  -26351  -29101
-- -    .....    ..... .    .....  -----.  . .....  .....  . . -----  ................................. ..
Net Fixed Assets           104435   102896  100679   91864   91293   95688   92791   90941   91022
OTHER ASSETS                     3883    9581    7688    9891    9278          11    3059      347      395
TOTAL ASSETS                   119727  125248  125804   116516  109761   101284   99156   95902   95636
CIRRENT LIABILITIES
Short-term Loars                  509     320      323      153      183      272     300      304      242
Payable:                          165      45       42       76       34       81      112      97       79
Other Current Liabilities           8       19       8        8    2773        25      616     774      656
Provisions                       1220      569    1052      522    1660       756      799    1573    1285
.....   .....    ..... .    .....  ..... . . .....  .....  . . .....  .......... .......................
Subtotal                     1901      953    1424      758    4651      1135    1827    2748    2262
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
Long-term loans                  1511     861      600      713      675    1086      552      257        0
Other                               0        0       9       19       26      106       54      61      106
.....   .....    ..... .    .....  ..... . . .....           -----. . ..... ...............................
Subtotal                     1511      861     609      732      702    1191       606     318      106
EWUITY
Paid-in-Capital                 10334   17484   17488    99S2    9986    9568    9417    8967    9107
Revaluation Reserves           105982  105759  105713  105691    95735   89568   87691    84368   85190
Accumulated Profit/(Loass)          0    3472      195      571      516      482        0       0        0
Transfers to Goverrant          -3595   -'640   -2073    -1670   -4310   -5581   -4739   -5940   -5578
Profft/(Loss) of the Year        3595    -637    2449       482    2481    4923    4356    5642    4549
.....   -- -      . .      - -      . .      . .     . .
Total Equity               116316  123438  123773  115026  104409   98960   96726   92837   93269
TOTAL LIABILITIES              119727  125252  125806  116516  109761   101286   99159   95903   95637
Source: Eaporchf (July 1991)



- 84 -                                        ANNEX 6
Table 3
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
VALPARAISO PORT
Actual Income Statements 1984 - 1990
(In Mid-1991 Chit S Million)
1984        1985        1986        1987        1988         1989      1990
OPERATING REVENUES
Wherfage                             1080         1523        1667        1763        1709        1651       1824
Cargo Handling                       1312         1895        2227        2593        2720        2884      2744
Storage                               729         1170         999        1155        1196        1465       1146
Port Dues                             116          159         149         210         144         140        109
Acoplo                                  0            0           0           0           8           0          0
Other Services                        296         415          425         310         330         249       276
---        --  -       --  -        -- -..         .         - -       - -
Total                            3533        5162        5467         6030        6107        6388      6098
OPE ATING EXPENSES
Salaries                             2068         1709        1378        1213        1328        1311       1277
Maintenance                           583         469          409         416         634         389       232
Administrative Expenses               433         388          609         289         176         209        149
Total Working Costs              3083        2566        2195         1918        2138        1909      1658
Depreciation                         1697         1213         990         794         763         760       651
~~~ .....  .....     - - -- - -.....                     ----      .........
Total Operating Costs            4780        3779        3185         2712        2901        2668      2309
NET OPERATING INCOME                -1247         1383        2282        3318        3206        3720      3789
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
Working Ratio                          87           50          40          32          35          30        27
Operating Ratio                       135           73          58          45          48          42        38
Tonnage Transferred                  1665         1860        2284        2705        3003        3362      3501
(in tons-thousands)
wuber of Employees (000)              477         486          484         493         497         476       511
Average Revenue per TonCOO)         2122         2775        2394        2229        2034         1900      1742
Average Cost per Enployee            4336        3516         2846        2461        2672        2754       2499
Trafffc Growth p.a. (X)                             12          23          18          11          12         4
Source: Emporchi (July 1991)



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SAN ANTONIO POR
Actual Income Statements 1984 - 1-90
(In Mid-1991 Chit S Mitlion)
1984       1985        1986        1987        1988        1989      1990
OPERATING REVENUES
Wharfage                             879         755         657         77          961         878      835
Cargo Handling                      1373        1264        1031        1138        1184        1256     1272
Storage                              262         224         101         170         267         253      385
Port Dues                              7          70           0         130         141         164       163
Acopio                                 0           0           0           0           0           0        0
Other Services                       613         434         418         291         322         383      341
-- -       ...  .....  .....       .....   .  . .....     .....   . . -----........
Total                           3135        2747        2206        2506        2874        2934     2996
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                             797         628         473         431         444        452       468
Maintenance                          337         261         218         295         196         140       182
Admfnfitrative Expenses              191         156         234          79          86         108       72
-- -     .....       .....   .   . .....     -----.     . -----    ......... ...... 
Total Workfng Costs             1325        1046         925         805         726         699      722
Deprociation                         716         399         331         344         371         365      374
.....      .....   .   . ....                  .....       .....     ........
Total Operating Costs           2041        1445        1256        1149        1097        1064     1096
NET OPERATING INCOME                1094        1302         951        1357        177         1870      1900
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
Working Ratio                         42          38          42          32          25          24        24
Operating Ratio                       65          53          57          46          38          36        37
Tonnge Transferred                  2343        1581        1304        1453        1795        1872      2132
(fn tons-thousands)
Number of Euployees                  182         166         163         163         159         158      171
Average Revenue per Ton (000)       1338        1737        1692        1725        1601        1567      1405
Average Cost per EmployeetCOO)      4381        3783        2902        2643        2795        2859      2735
Traffic Growth p.a. (X)                          -33          18          11          24           4       14
Source: Emporchf (July 1991)



ANNEX 6
- 86 -                                             Table  5
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECI
SAN VICENTE PORT
Actual Income Statements 1984 - 1990
(In Mid-1991 Chil S Miltion)
1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989      1990
OPERATING REVENUES
Wharfage                              814        1237        1242        1466        1526        1380      1176
Cargo HandLing                        869        1367        1348        1739        1730        1896      1603
Storage                               184         113          51         127          60          41        71
Port Dues                               3           0           2           2          17          18        16
Acopfo                                  0           0         188         327         376         468       405
Other Services                        256         245         146         138         205         133       149
.....       .....   .   -----       .....   .  . .....      .....  .  . -----....... .... ........ ..
Total                            2126        2962        2976        3798        3914        3936      3419
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                              330         359         347         348         450         446       432
Mafntenance                           211         170         365         155         116         109        46
Acinfistrative Expenses               136         173          99         144         102         124       177
....................   .......  .....   .......  .....      -----. . -----
Total Working Costs               678         701         811         646         668         680       654
Depreciation                          470         466         455         465         439         449       451
, ....... ..... ...-----. ........  .....  -----. . .....  . ......  .....
Total Operating Costs            1148        1167        1266        1111        1107        1128      1106
NET OPERATING INCOME                  978        1795        1710        2687        2806        2808      2313
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
Working Ratio                          32          24          27          17          17          17        19
Operating RatIo                        54          39          43          29          28          29        32
Tomage Iransferred                   1859        2080        2116        2892        3164        3569      3220
(in tons-thousands)
Number of Employees                   141         146         129         128         130         130       138
Average Revenue per Ton (000)        1144        1424        1407        1313        1237        1103      1062
Average Cost per EmployeeCOOO)       2344        2456        2694        2716        3462        3432      3129
Traffitc Growth p.a. (X)                           12           2          37           9          13       -10
Source: Eaporchi (July 1991)



- 87 -
ANTEX 6
Table 6
ClUz * COISOLTIID
TU9SPOSt IwAST        CUO    FROJECT
DCHFOlCHS S ofCR t U           STATUtT  1991-2000
(In Kdt.1991 CbIl a NLIoc)
1991        1992          1993        1994         l9o3         1996         1997         1996         1999         2000
__....       ----         ... ..   ---                          ----         ...__.                   ___....       ...__.____  
OpFRTsi RZVZNUZ
iherfaeg                                    6,675        6.663        7,441       7,346        7.376        7.473        7.619        7,739        7.$46        7.993
Carlo Kandlig                               7,474        7.434        7.949       6.146        6,412        0.691        8,933        9.205        9,500        R.606
Storage (covered and not)                   2.663        3,162        3.699       4.107        4.264        4.417        4,370        4,746        4,917        3.137
Part Dues                                     692          666          747          765         732          779          609          834          e83          682
Other Servies                              2,576        2,733       2.919        3,102        3.106        3.137        3.170        3,172        3.207        3,246
--           ..           ..........               .....                            .... ------  ......  ------     .....
Total                                  20.282       20,697       225,ss       23,468       23.910      .24,497       25.123       23.699       26,329       27.066
oPMTW esmlses
Saurles                                     4,831        3.105        5.326       5.533        5.726        3,904        6,104        6.294        6.313        6.733
Maintenance                                 1.532        1.433        I.S97        1,637       1,C62        1.727        1.770        1,610        1.653        1.903
Adulrnstrative Zxpenes.                     1.033          970        1.065        1.091       1.108        1,131        1,180        1.206        1,235        1.269
______ ......             ......      ......       ......  _..___.           ......   ___,____.....    ......       ....
Total Working Coat.                     7.436         7.330       7,968        8.261        6.496        6,762        9.034        9,310        9.601        9,903
Depreniatiou                                2,777        2,873        3.011       3.210        3,414        3,311        3,993        4,104        4.439        4.375
.__.__~~-- --                   ----         -----       .__..__...   -- --        ------        ------      ........___ ______ 
Total Operatin  Cost.                  10.215        10,405       11,000      11.471       11.930       12.294       13.049       13,413       14,060       14,460
MM? OPUrAlw  sac                           100,08       10,293       11,956       11,997       11.961      12,203       12,074       12,286       12.268       12.396
HOW OPIATIO RZVlUS                            6OL          664          921          936         949          963          983          999        1.017        1.037
li0OI OPEURIE  I eSCS                         946          364        1,006          669         S09        1,830        1,292          366          598          611
______.......  ......    .. ....      .....__.     _ ......     .. ....      ....._.      ----         ------       ........__.______
MDI OPIRTIr  133                             (346)         300          (63)         (32)         340         (866)       (309)         413          418          426
SIT   uE UMOIC ZUTESS                       9,722       10,393       11,871       11.943      12.320       11,334       11,765       12,996       12.687       13,012
AND TAX
TUIST WESt                                      2           1i          210 I41                  733          736          664        1,067        1,267        1.140
ZUCOM TAX                                   3,053        5.523        6.121       3,440        3,470        4.979        3,226        3,503        5.398        5,624
______ ------             .__. ._._..  ......      .. ...._   ....__..       ......       .....        .....__.  ___._..___
NI? ZUCOM                                   4.666        3.032         S.340      6,064        6,095        3,603        3.633        *,128        6.022        6,249
SZQSIZICwU MATIOS
working atio                                   37           36           3s           ii          3s            3           36            36           3           37
Operatig  atio                                 so           so           46           49          so           so           32            SI           33          35
Tonmne Tresferred                           14309        14774       I1396         16313        16963       17446        17901        18335        18834        19403
(in tons-aIllion)
NImber of bplopaea                           1803         1842         1666         1642         1Utl         1693        1900          1902        1Ull         1918



- 88-                                                                   ANNEX b
738991021  *f9fifCI     ,                                                                       Table   7
WOactl9 iUiCM   10O941  AMW AI11.C4lb  Of 110)  ST1TD4*3TS 1991.04
(is n eu0o4ot n9U  9 Illtlaoo
tool                     los9         1994        10o         10*4         1901         lots         1499        loot
scuu    of tr_..u_..m.                                             ....         ..._...                  ......       ....         ......       ........    ....
...............
-,vx#L $On=
44: Operatin  tbome                        10.049       80            t...4      18.997       11.941       13.103      13.0,4       11,214       121.34       12.584
U4<s D.presJl e2s 1.17?                                  3.10 3.011               3.210        3.434         . $)1      1.945        4,106        C S0         4,515
......      ......       ......                    -.....      ......                    ......   .  ......       ......._....... ... ........._......... ...
met war"&a  Seer.                       18.844      13.147       14.047       1.3204       AS,414      13.714       14.049       14.349       16,724       1.141
vr.,...d 2951 fees                              4                    2.199        1.100        1.199       9. 133           0            0            0            0
Otber                                           0            0           0            0                         0           0            0            0            9
TqSUI BMWtA%o0                                            0        .           3.109       3,799o       9.1?2            0            0            00
S449 of 5t    eetts                             0            0           0            0            0            0           0                   0           0      o
Im  0,.er4tag be'..                          (44)          500          (41)        (318         340         (445)       (304)         413          419          426
ba"r..  Other lAa)tte . *                     97        3.1          S.M91          447        1.024          191       1,04?          403          144          740
(twlu"o {ste-@l team)                  .....--                                                                                                .....       ...... -_- -_ *_---- *--- *--
TetalS Othr                                413         .144 "      .410          4 U        1.345        (3748         736          1          1.142        1.14?
fatal, Se   .       n4                     11.434       17.318      *0.04        84,73So      tO.77        1494U       14U927       171204       117.90       19,144
cICLZ  4l nm
cAnTAL  UIT
Pr.poed 1I D rOjet (thiough MP)               7S      0 4.299        7.194        4.109        4.423      12,251         (141)       1.133            0            0
UoK=$am boesatent PLa                       3.412       3.94         s.on         2.794        S.744        3.974       3S017        3.193        3.339        3.406
Total C     alw  IzpauttutAe            3.194        7.1t0       10.1U4        7.114       10.349      U .227        2.443        4.214        3.13        3.40S
1&41 1184W (115L184L)
t- QLL .A         otbr (tateuel)                0            0           0          4,6            0            0       3.U4         2.014        2.313       2.401
otdr                                            0            0                                     0 o                                   0                         0
eta"l fe." lePaYmeo                          0           0            0          447            a            0       2.494        2.014        3.313       2.405
no8  fea  NW ether (taaUalS                  33             210sIt                  441          755          154         4196       1.047        1,247        1.140
Other                                           0            0           0            0            0            0           a            0            0
Tot, (Stare.  layd  1 t                                  Is         210          441          ns          7114         44         1.247,       I.J17        1.140
TONS                                        1.013 s       5.J 3      4,t13        3.440        1.470        4.079       3.s 3         .S03        3.399        2.42'
PtvuS                                       4.900            a           0        4.044        2.94:        3.392        .4s0        4,399        5.279        5.414
CIba:                               9     ~     ~~           ~~          ~~           ~~           ~      ~    ~~ 0  0  0  0  0  0  0     0            0
fote       r T,..efeti                  112.453      52 J         9.1.1       115s04        9.316       O.371       11.091 U.902              10.477        8.44O
Ot1 L94hT                                     441       2.440         .24           S"         1.419           9          4              0 0   a                   0
CIMIG    n m   m  CAPIAL
7*4    i   uJ                             (19)        (lo9ss        (34)         76            so        (2200        0950)        (195)         144          (17)
Ttal 4*ppLa4                               14.401      14.419       19.7ts       30.4U        20.497       24.942      14.442       17.144       17.713       1t.5t1
nG          0,6318                           (          2.94             1       (1.914)          40           38         30$           4s 877                    1
"1a  Al v    h         of  I1                             94         S.74         4.091        2.1"         3.237       2.295        2.469        2.740        2.017
eals at     or u64                                       5.740       4.0041        .177        2.U7         2.2s   J 1.79             .740        2.47         2.951



89 -
ANNEX 6
Table 8
CELZ - CONSOLIDATED
TRNSPOrT tUnVrsocToR  PIOM.T
EHPOICHI'S PnWICTD  4LAUCS SREETS 1991-2000
(In Hid-1991 Chit S millon)
1991        1992         1993         1994         1995        1996         1997         1999         1999        2000
....        .... . . ....             .... . .. ._......       ....         ....    . . _. ....       .... . .. ... .._.. ........... ..
cuilr ASSm
Cash and SOank                                46        3,740        4,091        2.177       2,257        2,295        2,679        2.740       2,917        3.932
Sbort.ete   Xyecst-ot                          0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0           °
Receivable* from Oparetione                2,029        2.070        2.294       2,347        2,391        2,430        2.512        2,570       2.633        1.707
Other I.ecevablj.                            235          239          230          235         239          243          251          257          263         271
Inventories                                  223          226          240          246         255          263          272          279         230          236
Other Current Assets                         164          135          135          135          133         135          135          135          135         133
........... ....... ....... ..............  ......   .......  ......   .......  ......   .......  ......   .......  ......
Total Current keote                     3,496        6,410       6,991        5,141        5.277        5,388       3.949        3,981        6.178        6,302
FXD AS=ES
Land                                       7,223        7,223        7,223        7,223       8,048        8.048        9.048        9.048       9,048        9,048
Port lnetalltine                          89.513       91,687       98,343      106,133     116,461      117,927      130,495      133.118     143,948      148,755
E4 dpaont                                 10,751       11.076       11,512       11,974       12,236      12,316       12,857       13.212       15,380      13.960
Work to Progreso                           1,125        5,117        9,152        6,307       5.317        9,103        3,266        4,103            0           0
Inerest durng Conntruceton                    94          583          669          977         820        1.403        1,097        1,393            0           0
Other fted   serts                         5,204        53,51        S.525       5,691        3.694       16,004       10,735       10,940        6,551       6,750
....... ......... .... ........... .......  ......   ........  ......   ........  ......   ........  ......   ........  ......
Subtotal                              113,910      121,067      131,222     135,406      148,775      164,003     166.498      170,913      174.106      177.313
Les Depr"iatto                            29,17        52.050       59,39       37,320       40,933       44,066       47,613      31,716       56.176       60,751
......      ------   .   ......       ......   .    ......     ......    .    ......     ......   .    ......     ........... ....... ....... ....... .......
Net Fixed Asasts                       84.753       89,037      96,633      100.886      107,822      119,937     118,595      119,097      117,931      116,762
OTm   ASSETS                                   18       2,497        5,328       4,881        5,901        6,191        5,152        4.773        4,103       3,345
TOTAL ASSETS                              88,267       97.944      108,952      110,909     116.999      131,316      12n.887      129,851      128,414     126,409
COUDE LUSZITIPS
Short-tore Lo                              1,220            0            0            0           0          923        1.645        1,643        1,645       1.643
Payables                                      45           45           48           30          51           53           54           56           36          59
Other Current Lcbtllttec                  1.026        1,310        1.438        1,487        1,529       1,381        1,630        1.676        1,728       1.783
Pro,toue                                     294        2,007        2,161        1,411       1.384          902          956        1,144          947       1.035
... .....................................  ......  ------.   ......   .......  ......   .......  ......   .......  ......
Subtotal                                2,394        3,362        3,647       2,947        2,964        3,256       4,289        4,321        4,378        4,345
LOMO-TSEM LtAUILT3S
Loup.Tem  Loan.                                0            0        1.289       3,398        9.196       19,918       17,273       13,628       13,993      12.38
Otehr                                        107        2.619        5,514        3,062       6,087        6,378        5,366        5,010       4,419        3,658
......      .......  ......           .......  ......          .......  ......           .......  ......          ........... ....... ....... ....... .......
Subtotal                                  107        2.619        7.,03      10,460       15,285       23,295      22,639       20,656       18,401       15,996
SQUAT.
Paid.0.nCapital                            9.394        9,394        9,394        9,394       8.394        8,394        8,394        6,394        6,394       9,394
Ivcluattoon  4ee1e4Vc                     76,981       79,991       76.9$1       79,961      76,981       79,951       78,981       79,981       78,981      79,9$1
Aaoau astcd Profitli(Loo)                    (464)       (464)       4,586       10,128      10,128       13.377       15,369       15,569       17,319      16,061
Trcosfero to Govarmont                    (6.000)           0            0       (6.064)     (2,843)      (5,392)      (5.853)      (4,399)      (5,279)     (3,916)
Profiti(Lose) of the Tear                  4,666        3,052        5,340        9,W04       6,095        3,603        5,653        6,128       6,022        6,248
......      .......  ......           .......  ......          .......  ......           .......  ......          ........... ....... ....... ....... .......
Totel E ty                             85.577       91,963       97,503      07,503      100,732      102,964      102,964     104.693       103.436     103.668
roAL L7U UITl                             96,268       97,943      108,953      110,910     119,000      131,516      129,867      129.852      119.213     126,409



- 90 -                                                   ALNNEX 6
CHILE - VALPAUAISO                                                            able  9
TRANSPORT INPRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
EMPORCHI'S PROJECTED INCOME STATEKENTS 1991-2000
(In Mid-1991 Chil $ Million)
1991      1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998      1999       2000
_ S  _____ ___ _...      ...        ---        ...        ----      ....       ...    _   ....
OPERATING REVENUES
Wharfago                                  1,689      1,614     1,705      1,606      1,427     1,445      1,488      1,516      1,559     1.598
Cargo Handling                            2,665     2,825      2,996      2,738     2,724      2,847      2,976      3,103     3,253      3.414
Storage (covored and not)                 1,128      1,477     2,097      2,466      2,583     2,726      2,858      3,000     3.160      3,326
Port Duen                                     0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
Other Services                              647        748       881      1,009      1,006     1,017      1,029      1,041      1,055     1,070
.- --     -- --      -- --      .. ..      .. ..     ....   _  _ _..  .....  -- --   ......     .  __..... ___ ___ ___
Totol                                 6,129      6,664      7,679      7,818     7,740      8,036      8,351      8,660     9,027      9,407
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                                  1,305     1,523      1,606      1,666      1,716     1,768      1,821      1,876      1,935     2,002
Moa1ntonane                                 289        312       352        359        355       368        382        396        412       428
Administrative Er  noes                     192        208       235        239        237       246        255        264        275       286
......    ----       ....... .__.....    .... .....--           ....... ......    ......    ... .. . _. __ ______ ______
Total Working Costs                    1,786     2,042      2,194      2,264     2,309      2,382      2,458      2,535     2,621      2,716
Depreciation                                626       645        642        621        632       577        652        663        918       866
_--       -----      ----       ......  _._._._...  __._.____._... _____-___     ...... ..... _____-____
Total Operating Coats                 2,411      2,687      2,836      2,885     2,940      2,959      3,110      3,199     3,539      3,582
NET OPERATING INCO4E                      3,718     3,977      4,843      4,933     4,800      5,077      5,240      5,461     5,487      5,826
NON OPERATINO REVENUES                       36         3)        38         40         41        43         44         46         46        46
VON OPERATING EXPESSES                       82         58       492        449         25     1,298        739         34         35        37
.... ..    ----      ......____ ------  _.....___. ....._.   ......    .._.          ......    ......__
NON OPERLTING INCOME                        (46)       (21)     (454)      (410)        16    (1,256)      (695)        12         11         9
NET INCQNZ BEPORE INTEREST                3,672     3,956      4,389      4,523     4,816      3,821      4,546      5,473     5,498      5,835
AND TAX
INTEREST EXPENSE                              2        14         84         95        102       103        246        229       505        454
INC0  TAX                                 1,911     2,061      2,261      2,103     2,247      1,749      2,040      2,512     2,386      2,580
___.........  _____      ___. .......    ------    ........ ......    ........ ......    ........ . ....... ......
NET INCONE                                1,758     1,881      2,045      2,324     2,467      1,970      2,260      2,732     2,607      2,801
SIONIFICANT RATIOS
Working Ratio                                29         31        29         29         30        30         29         29         29        29
Operating Ratio                              39        40         37         37         38        37         37         37         39        38
Tonnge Transferred                         3747      4120       4369       3996      3976       4157       4344       4529      4748       4983
(in tons-aillion)
Number of btployses                         586       664        680        685        685       683        685        685       686        689



-91 -                                                                               ANNEX 6
cmiX - 92j8SO                                                                          Table 10
TroLAt  naUMtcUOCIV 1#KTO
anuiam'a nwMM  SO==u MM AnUCATtw or.u                                 losi £4t-Ion
(lo HU4.I01t CUL  131£)
0l1        19        199o       1984       less       U814      387        3988       ii        1000
MWES -- -- or- ram         -             ...       -       -  ....        ....                                                 ....       ....
................
13024  8021U3,
Reg ov.en        t .m.                    SOL,       _ .77      4,842     41                              5,,340     $.44       5.487      2,4Js
A44, 0.pe"""A                               424        445        442        4231      422        *77        5t        44S        *I         844
......    ......    ......    ..... .... .... .... _*_... .... ...... ......    ......  .        ...... .......
Net Itosor.   8.u*o.                   4.344     4.432      5,485      3,824      S.411     5.24       1,691       .IU3      4,40S     4,41
*, 00=
pwf..141..                                    0 ^    0    O 9                  0 §    4 7       8.75?          0     °          °      °
sae  f  ixs  mat                              0          0          0          0         0          a         0          8          0          0
?eualIOvrinS.fl                            0          0       4J?          0         J1     0,777          0          0          0          0
RUO  Opetas? 104.                           (443       (213      (4243     (4103        I      (1.2245     (453         12         It          8
agwcu 0th.tr L utle-                          0          0          0       447          0          0     11.0         3n         *co        780
(imldS tutaul, I*&"                  ......        -..          . -    --        ......  -.-- .                    -.. --                -  .... .._._~....._.
TItsL Otba.                              (44)       (21)      (4243       27         14    (.U4)         245        "1         47         748
Total Im.es of luoad                      4,148     4,8AL      S,718      $,S91     5,S14    31,175      4,22?      4.5i1      7,084      7.441
A29UC4!Om Of1513
ftop..4  UtO luj"t (tbrmo  MP)             (104)       750     1,011         413     1.102      7,210      (5543     1.12           0          0
3*70w' On   m.et.1           PaS            Sit         32:       4"         ItO        It        258       371        S8         "9         410
ToaL Cwtal 38e44tun*                    3IC      1,42       1,578        752      1.302     7.J7J       (18)      1.114        277        410
tLA P WAUn! (1ACIPAi)
12JA Lot   adA otUr (aotrml)                  a          0          0         0          0          0       an        4o4         44         42
oth.r                                         0          a          0          0         0          0         0                     0          0
Totlg Losm I.pywous                       0          0         0          0          0          0       854        854        454       424
DimLots  "  tbst  (t13410*l                   2         14        04,        85        l02        103       244        no         SOS        4)4
0tb.1                                         0          0          0          0         8          0         8          8          0          0
l . DOO t err taymeis                     2         14    t    4         85        10         LO        2 I244       9        SOS        434
$AS4D Ins7T=IU                                                   e          o1flW
Tra.                                      1.911      2.043     2,241      2.102      4,247      1.749     3,040      2.512      2.384      2 0
118s(.                                    2,3t0          0          0     2,170        "41        91      3.24u      2,323      8,31    8,44
Ot1.t                                         0          0          0          0         0          0         8          0          a 
foul T7naef.                          4.101      A.01       8.s21      4.273      1,s1      3443        s,        4,834      5,117      4.048
OT0 AIMJUIIO    (CImliat  to=               441      13.28      1l,81        in      1,01U        48        431          0          0          0
to gas 4Ame"O
Orn VW         t GM-
.5     2 I (omist                    (1.045        no8 (*3               14        (la)       218 (1443            (4223       17        (33
TaL4  J1U.T.s                             2,744     5,113      3,n        S.4"       5.448    13.141    5,.91        8,833      7.,4S      7.40
5881(23@8388V50To   5R9                               (SIS        (22)        4         84        o2       2S4        (2983        so         as
@433AT 12I5I1I0W or   8                   2,392      2,843       ,2 2.4      08 2,4     28      418  2     ,44,544sWa  2,893    3.185      2,412
@U3 At mC at nu                           2,41      3.430      2,408      3,414      2,s        2444       .8"I       ,895      2,423      .,457



- 92 -                                                   ANNEX 6
CUESA - VALYtSO                                                                               Table   11
T, NFORT IU      TRIASTCTUR  PRECT
D4POlcM'S PIOJECT= DALASCE 8t  1991-2000
(to 18d-1991 Chtl a ttllioo)
1991      1992       1993       1994       1995       1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
._.._.     ,   ----       ---       ....       ----       ....       ---        ....      ....___  
CUI.T ASSETS
Cash   d  8&Gkr                           2,941      2,630     2,40U      2,436      2.320      2.546      2.692      2.,93     2,633      2.657
Short-teru Zpv.mcuents                        0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0
Receivables from Oporstiono                 613        66c        76S       782        774        804        U3         S66       903        941
Other Raceivablee                            73         76         77         7s        77         80         64         67        90         94
tnventories                                  34         *1        66         66         69         71         74         76        63         63
Other Current Assets                         24         24         24        24         24         24         24         24         24        24
____._... ..    ....._    ......, ._. _....    ._._..___ ____ ......    ......    ....    ....    ......
Total Current Assets                   3.703     3.237      3,342      3.405      3,464      3.326      3,906     3,647      3,712      3,761
It  ASSETS
Lend                                      3,263      3,263     5,263      3,263      3.2$3      3.263      5,2$3     3,263      3.263      3,263
Port Znstsllations                       13.231    13,795    15,124    14,572    14,671    14,003    17,196    17,334    26,001    26.363
Xquipment                                 2.302      2.368     2,299      2,322      2,410      2,400      2,442      2,467     2,533      2.582
Work in Progreos                           3U5       1,06.      1,439     2,343      3,374      4,761      3.266      4,103          0         0
Interest during Construction                 31        100        125       317        603        973      1,097    1I$.             0         0
Other Sixod Asset*                        1,976      1.979      1.990     1.032      1,832      6,331      6.304      6,304      1,663     1,663
Subtotal                              23,200    24,351    26,139    26,891    26.193    35,771    33,396    37,104    37,300    37.911
Lest Deprectetion                         7,620      6,263     $,435      6,797      9,429      9,607      9,626    10,491    11,409    12,276
__ __ _ _.    ....    .__.....    .._....    ......  _.. _._...    ......    ... __...__ ......    ... ._.__._
net fixed Assets                      15,380    16,316    17,704    16,094    16,764    26,164    23,760    26,613    26,091    25,633
SI T16                                        2      1.391     2,769      2.322      3,341      3,632      2,593     2,213      1,345        765
TOTAL ASSETS                             19.267    20.964    23,613    23,622    23,370    33.321    32,261    32,473    31,349    30,202
COMMl LnUXTLtlZS
Short-tern Loans                           S36           0          0         0          0        326        636        656       636        636
Paysbles                                     11         la         13        14         14         14         Is         1s        16         16
Other Curtent Ltibilities                   321        366       395        408        416        429        442        436       472        469
ProviLsons                                1,407      1,341      1,623     1,462      1,630      1,103      1,366      1,609     1.649      1,606
Subtotal                               2,125      1,921     2,031      1,964      2,039      1,676     2,479      2,937      2,792      2.969
t.U-Tv  LLAStLTt9S
Lop-Tern Loan                                 0          0       697        697        763      7,340      6,9S4     6,229      5,373      4,917
Other                                        33         33         33        33         33         33         33         33         33        33
.  ......    ......    .....    ......    ......    ......      ----        ---       ----       ..... .
Subtotal                                  33         33       730        730        796      7,374     6,916      6,262      3,606      4,951
psid-t.apit"l                            16,663    16,663    16,663    16,603    16,663    16,63    16,663    1.,663    16.683    16,683
Revalmatt" lsseruee                           0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0
Ad=Auated Profttl(Looo)                     477        245      2,126     4,170      4.323      3,631      6,969      3,961     6,391      6,067
Trnwfore to  overmnnt                    (2,190)         0          0    (2,170)      (961)      (612)   (3,266)   (2,323)   (2,931)   (3,469)
Profiti(Lose) of the Tear                 1.736      1,91     2.043      2.324      2,467      1,970      2,260      2,732     2,607      2.601
rtawl  uity                           17,126    19.009    21,033    21,208    22,.714    2,872    22,664    23,274    12,950    22,262
TOTL LIAtuTmS                            19,267    20,963    23,681      23,621   2#,369    33,321    32,261    32,473    31,349    30,201



ANNEX 6
93  -                                                  Table 12
CH1LE - SAN ANTONIO
TRAHSPORT INFRASTRUCURE PROJECT
EMPORCHI'S PROJECTID INCOHE STATEKENTS 1991-2000
(In Mid-1991 Chli a Million)
1991       1992       1993       1995       1995       1996       1997       1998        1999       2000
.____ ----            ----       ----_ ___. ......                . .._      _.. .....  ----... .....  ----... .....  ...... ___
OPERATING REVZNUES
Wherfoso                                      755        674        716        750        869        884        910        930        957         985
Cargo Handling                             1,122      1,236       1,330      1,732      1,966      2,044      2,125      2,206      2,331      2,402
Storage (covered and not)                    302        279         290        410        430        453        474        497        523         550
Fort Du*e                                       0          0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0          0
Other Servicea                                647        658        674        712        734        741        749         756        765        774
Total                                   2,826      2,847      3,010      3,603      3,999       4,123      4,258      4,390      4,346      4,712
OPERATING EXPENSES
SalarITe                                      469        564        589        428        655        675        698         724        752        777
maintenance                                   157        127        134        156        172        183         189        194        201        208
Adainiatrative Yxpenase                       105         85         90        104        114        122         126        130        134        139
Total Working Costs                       730        777        812         889        941        979      1,012      1,048      1,087      1,124
Depreciation                                  350        360        365        464        578        588        877        886         897        907
Total Operating Costs                   1,081      1,137      1,178      1,353       1,520      1,567      1,889      1,935      1,989      2,031
HET OPERATING INCGNE                       1,745       1,710      1,833      2,250      2,479      2,555      2,369      2,455      2,562      2,681
ON OPERATINOG REVENUES                         29         29         30         31         32         33         34          35         35         35
VON OPERATINGO EXPENSES                        22         37         21         25         96         30         42         32          33         34
NOM  OPERATING INCONE                           7         (7)         9          7        (64)         3         (8)          3          2          1
NrET INCO(  SWORE INTEREST                 1,752      1,702       1,842      2,857      2,415      2,558      2,361      2,459      2,564      2,682
AND TAX
IntErcST EXPENSE                                0          1          3        243        522        522        377        721        655         590
INCOME TAX                                   954        926      1,002         996        936      1,008        982        858        944      1,035
..__ _ .... .......  ... ... .... ......  ........    ......  ........    ......  ........    ......    ------.. ------
MET INCQZ                                     798        775        837      1,018        957      1,028      1,003        880        965       1,057
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
Working Ratio                                  26         27         27         25         24         24         24          24         24         24
Operating Ratio                               38          40         39         38         38         38         44         44          44         43
Tonnage Tranaferred                         2294       2453        2651       3202       3566       3706       3851       3998       4167       4347
(in toa-smillion)
kuber of t7ployeee                           207         242        245        254        257        257        258        260        262         263



- q4 -
dHILl - 144 A47041                                                         ANNEX   6
fI.41901  um n               W                                             Table   13
.02    QJ SOflTi  105015 am0 4IIC4flOU of mm30  8TAThOT   1881.000
(to W±4.188 04±5 $ 411114.1o)
189L      1985       1ots      1104       1ots      189        lot?      1884       1ogo      1000
........1.3...                                    ..                                ..        ..
KMzAL wm=±1
war opertngtl..   84i                    1,743      1,710      ,853      1,11 IS     .471     1.oss      2,59      5.455      1,541     1,48
£44, D.pot1.11tou                          50         Soo       541        444       578        588        877       484        It?       807
Not tiz.wa1ml 84,ga..                 1,001     5.0,0      1.184     2.714      3.058      3,145     5,544      1,541     1,458      5.584
ftop...4 1311  Lou                           0          0         0      5,10      5.445      3,014          0         0          0         0
0Kb..                                        0          a         0          0          0         0          a         0          0         0
TOW kolvo.Oag.                            0                    0     5,104      5.445      5,014         0          0         0          0
gas *I 514    a.4a...                        0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         a
P.09.nlIm? tome.                             7         (7)        9          7        (44)        5         (a)        5          21
1.104.0bSC LLAbUtt,1I6                   0     1.415     5,447          0      1,019       lei          0         0          a         0
COlual.. lusum.1 u)...                                                          .        .     .      .
5.1.1. OtbA.                              7      1,414     5,484          7        M5       214          (8)        5         1          1
1.ul $wou*c.  at 1144.                   1,11       5,884     5,484      5,410     7,477      ,455       5 3*7!    3,545     5,441      3,588
A£LVATIOS 01 n081
1wra,ae.  USO #"Oej. CtIoroub 08r)          53      1,452     4,342      5,75      5,377      5,054        (14)       (0)         a         0
MM=-* CEO tg8O#t%M .AU                    114       544        185       14         444       543        578       588        401       414
Tog"  Gap"" taS   poutg                          MS411,,.  19 195  ,5  4,044     ,112      1.197       54          8        401        414
1A*5 USAUinSt (5.1013MO.)L
iI1Dt.4o  0*A   m.rl "444                    0          0         0        447         0          0     1,480      1,110     1.190      1,811
091..                                        a                                                       0  0                                   0
5.191 1.4  boparf.os                      0          8         0       447          0          0     1.8ISO     L1,10     1,319      1,411
ZINTM PAmlim
no3 1,... S006 444.0.  Los".                 a          1         3        145       Su1        Su        17         721       as5        So0
011..                                        0          0         0a                              0          a         0          0         0
Total t41t,n6t 14sy,ts                               1         5        143       Su1        Su        377        711       d11        580
Tom"                                       954        t1c     1,001        984       454      1,009        Ill1      a5s       84       1,035
1181114                                    44           0         0          a         0          0          0         0          0         a
0    0         ~~        ~~0 0a                0          0         0          0         0
To"%) Sna.k.,                         1,4"1       914      1.041       084        95       1,044       on1        81        844      I'm
cam aL0141nU                                 0          I         0          0          0         0         17         0          0         0
=11n t VC113 GM=24
13199Al  I (Poona3)                      it       us1                    as3) 4   113       (471)     (5715       U4G       6080       134)
Tatal 449114444oe                        1.071      4.040     1.810      1.753     7.855      4,415      5,143     5,5441    1,440      5,1
50252A1 (0=U41   505                        St       (583)       4          1 4      185         (4)        (1)       (5)         1        (7)
CM1  A2 955O50 (1 WAR*                   1,410      1.441     1,158      1.11      1,194      8,241      I,1s4     1,111      5.U*      1,129
041  AS     U at =a                      1,446      1,154     13sn       1,184     1,241      &,114     5,S   1124181         5,12      11133



ANNEX 6
Table 14
CHILE - SAN ANTNIO
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
EHPORCHIlS PROJECTED BALANCE SHEERS 1991-2000
fIn Mid-i9g1 Chil $ Million)
1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000
_______._. ..  ... .  .. _ _ _  --        ....      ----       ----       ----      ---        ---
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Ranks                           1,441      1,258     1,322      1,398     1,241      1,236     1,232      1,228     1,229      1,222
Short-term Investments                       0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Receivables from Operations                283       285        301        360       400        412       426        439       455        471
Other Racei,ables                           34         31        30         36        40         41        43         44        45         47
Inventorise                                 22        23         24        27         28         29        30         31        26         27
Other Current Assets                        22       217        148         22        22         22        22         22        22         22
____._ -- --         ------.   . -- --    ......  . . -- --    ._._.......  -----   ------     ---___---____ ______
Total Current Ascsts                  1,802     1,814      1,826     1,844      1,731     1,742      1,753      1,765     1,778      1,790
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                       262       262        262        262     1,087      1,087     1,087      1,087     1,087      1,087
Port Installations                      13,375    13,566    13,745    20,412    28,133    28,471    33,986    36,348    36,722    37,110
Equipment                                1,679      1,738     1,754      1,785     1,882      1,907     1,933      1,960     1,988      2,017
Work in Progroce                             0     2,541      6,703      3,941     1,943      3.322         0          0          0         0
Interest during Construction                25        150       530        639       217        432         0          0         0          0
Other Fied Assets                          229        229       229        229       229      3,668       229        220       229        229
Subtotal                             15,570    18,485    23,222    27,268    33,490    38,887    39.235    39,624    40,026    40,442
Lesas Depreciation                       3,375     3,734      4,099     4,563      5,141     5,729      6,589      7,475     8,372      9,279
______ ------        ------    ------     ------    ------                -- --     ._..... _ _ ....____.___
Net Fixed Assets                     12,196    14,752    19,123    22,705    28,349    33,158    32,646    32,149    31,654    31,163
OTir  ASSETS                                 2          2         2          2         2          2         2          2          2         2
TOTAL ASSETS                            13,999    16,568    20,951    24,551    30,082    34,902    34,401    33,916    33,434    32,955
CURRENT LUABILITIES
Short-tero Loans                            25         0          0          0         0       426        851        851       851        851
Payable.                                     4         5          3          5         6          6         6          6         7          7
Other Current Liabilities                   33        35         37         40        42         44        46         47        49         51
ProvLiton,                                 650       643        701        617       504       563        522        386       436        529
__.__.________.......    ------.. ......    ........ ......    ........ ......    ........ ......    ....... ...
Subtotal                                713       683        742       663        552     1,038      1,423      1,290     1,362      1,437
L0NO.TERM LIABILLTIES
Long-Term Loane                              0          P         0      3,109     6,774     9,787      8,936      8,083     7,234      6,383
Otbor (includes Internal loans)             20      1,844     5,330      4,883     5,903     6,193      3,154      4,773     4,107      3,347
______ ------        ------    ------     ...  _...  -- --     -- --      -----     ------  ____-________-___
Subtotal                                 20     1,844      5,330     7,992    12,676    15,981    14,091    12,860    11,341         9,730
Paid-in-Capital                         12,853    12,853    12,853    12,853    12,853    12,853    12,853    12,853    12,653    12,833
Ravalu,tio  Reserves                         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Acczu_lated Profiti(Loea)                  463       413      1,188     2,025      3,043      4,001     5,030      6,033     6,912      7,877
Transfers to Government                   (848)         0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
Profiti(Lose) of the Year                  798       775        837      1,018       957      1,029     1,00S        880       965      1,057
Total Equity                         13,266    14,041    14,878    13,696    16,854    17,883    18,886    19,765    20,730    21,787
TOTAL LIUBILITIS                        13,999    16,568    20,951    24,551    30,082    34,902    34,401    33,916    33,434    32,955



ANNEX 6
- 96 -                                              Table 15
C8ELE - MN MM0
TIIANSPO1?ZTRASTIUCYU  120T
RMPOKCBI'S n TO.c     mUaOnS 5?A            1991-2000
(In Mid-1991 Cbi $ Sllion)
1991       1992      1993       1994       1995       1958      1to7        1995       1999       2000
OPERATING IRVENuE8
Wharfage                                  1.667      1,457      1,998      2,005      2.002      2,001      2.000      1.999 1s ,9S          1,997
Corgo Handling                            1,379      1,199      1,384      1.384      1.354      1.354      1,384      1.364      1,384      1.384
Storage (covored and not)                   317        416        473        360        380        350        350        350        350        310
Port Dues                                      0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Other Services                               133        130        143       141        141        141        141        141        141        141
......    ....... ... _.... .. ._. ....    .__....... .... ...  _. .....    ....._.    ----       ...... ...... __..._._....
Total                                  3,496      3.202      3,998      3,907      3,907      i,907      3,906      3,905      3,904      3,903
OPERATING  sZP8ES
Salaries                                     363       440        456        489        483        495        513        S25        544        561
Maintennce                                    79         72         86         *4        *4         84         5          S4         *4         84
Adsainitrativa Ezpaenes                       53         48         57        56         56         56         56         56         36         56
_____. ..  __..... _   .......    ...... ........    ......  ........    ---           ... ...  _. ...___ __. __.__
Total Worklng Costs                      497        560        59s        610        624        638        653        668        654        701
Deprociation                                 363        373       412        421        448        454        463        472        474        410
._.....__.___ ...................    ...... ........    ......    ------.. ...... ........    ......    ........ ..---_._
Total Operating Coate                    860        933      1,011      1,030      1,069      1,092      1,116      1.141      1,158      ;.10
MM OPERTINO  ICCME                        2,636      2,269      2,956      2,677      2,836      2,814      2,790      2,764      2,748      2,793
NOR  OPROATI EREVES                           28         28         29         s0        30         Si         32         33         33         33
SONOPERATINO EIo    SES                       76         24         18         17        4S         23         24         24         25         25
.........    ........ ......    ........ ......    ........ ......    ......    ........ ------................
RoNo  PERATI0INCOME                          (48)         3         12         13        (14)    *         *               9          8          a
NIT INCRII UEIORB SZUTEST                 2,586       2,273     2,998      2,590      2,824      2,522      2,795      2,773      2.754      2,500
AND TAX
INTEREST  SB                                   0          0        123       123        132        132         61        117        106         96
INCQZ TAX                                 1.72'v     1.107      1,439      1,235      1,201      1,200      1,223      1,182      1,176      1,207
NET INCCE3                                 1.307      1,166     1,437      1,529      1,492      1.491      1,514      1,473      1,469      1,495
SIONUICAUT ATIOS
WorkIng Ratio                                 14         17         15         18        16          11 ?7                17         18         18
Operating Ratio                               25         29         25s       2          27        2t          29         29         so         25
Tonnge Traafegred                          2760       2583       3088       3088       S088       3086       3088       3088       3088       3088
(in tona-llion)
meber of Eployees                            148        171        172        172       172        172        172        172        172        172



clitLx - $AM Inca=1. 98                                                       ANNEX   6
""arm   intit"TIOCTM   PRO=                                            Table   16
COt 1114-1991 Chu  8 8L3Gal
1oo1      loot        3881       1884      1I8         1884       1997       188        1ost      lo00
800108011208 -.--                                                          ..*
ZOMISAL 800101
Not opoottle  Item.                        3.834      1.10       3,884      1,877      2,038      3.814.    1,780       3,744      1.784      1,701
£44, Pepttattou                              363        371        411        431        444        414         443       47)        474        4(0
not I6serm. 8i4e60                      Loss8    3.841        1,396      1.188      3,384      3,348      3,33)      3, 33      13320      3.303
OIOAt                                          8          0           0         0          0          0           0          0          0         8
Tow .1.towtse                               0          0      1,181          0         47          0          0          8          8          0
orml  00uCI18
sale ofILOaed.ea#6                             0          0          a          0          0          0           0          0         0          0
NM lp.tagtft owain                           (482         1          1s         13       (14          a           8          8                     a
86ev.... 00k., LlabtAltis                     l0        41           0          0          a          a           0          0         0          0
lualO"bar                                 1363       4ig         1s         La        (14)         6          a          8          8          8
eTSUI Imwe.. of 1.34                       2.871      3,101      3,001      3,310      3.338      13274      1.341      3,140      3.328      3.310
Iv.o.eed 0218 1vJoCb          M    P) 1      788        887      1,639         Is         of          0          (a)        0          0          8
Off3lm6   eto zayesmeos PZUS                  St        330        141        131        814        384        313        333        337        346
fetal C.PtaL bp.o48..ms                   818      1,317      1,78         17         84304 II               I) o   313     3      1 37      348
La"l 3DAU!8 C1002015L)
TM   Lcan                                                 0        436          8          0         68        118        138        138        138
0th.,                                          0          0          a          8          0          8           0         8          a          8
totalI  1..8  ya8e3.tt                      0          0        4)8          0          0         68        138        1II        138        13
01Z8f PAit S
San  L.a                                       0          8        133        113        131        113         61        It?        104         84
Other                            0         8     ~    ~     ~    ~~         ~~         ~~         ~~         ~     ~ 8  0  a  0  a  8  0  0
TO&&t81 868*,,i  1673686                    8          0        11s        133        us8        13I         41        117        104         Is
31481188 To MRMT
tuom                                       1,360      1.10?      1,4)8      1.238      1,281      1,100      1,103      1,181      1,178      1,107
Profile                                    2,870          0          8      3,304      1,318      1,803      1,188      1,381      1,417      1.403
OtIM.                                          0          0          0          0          a          0           a         0          8          0
fTOW  froadous                         1,318      1,107       1,438      S,14       3,838      1,001      3,782      1,177      13.14      3,688
am  hm.10A01                                   8          *          0          0          0          0          0          8          a          0
M U TM CARhTA
=30241  I (0101683                    (1,843)        88        (12         171         is        (73)      (1081        47        (L143      (313
fta"L £pplO.oli                            3,118      3,311      1,8"$      4,010      S,486      3.43)      3,387      3,30)      1,18)      1,170
531481 (OC813) 13 048                       (1411        90      1,141       (4881      (1")       (UT)71                  40         44         4.0
0A14At SZOO 0  Of WM41                         7       (LIS)       (648     18713        374        26         III        174        211        878
081  AT'    88 or161A                       (1L8        (641    1,071         17         us8        lit        174        aul        378        sit



- 98 -                                                   ANNEX 6
Table 17
CHILE - SAV VICENTE
TRANSPORT INPRASTRUCT1R PROJECT
DEPORCHI'S PROJECTED BAIANCE SHEETS 1991-2000
(In Mld.1991 Chil $ Million)
1991      1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998      1999       2000
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and sank.                             (158)       (68)    1,075        376        268        111       174        215        279        319
Short-term Investuents                        0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
Receivables from Oparations                 350        320       400        391        391        391       391        590        390        390
Othar Receivables                            35         32        40         39         19         39        39         30         39         39
Invantories                                  15         17         18        18         19         19        20         20         21         21
Other Currant Asseta                         13         13         13        13         13         13         13        13         13         13
Total Currant Assets                     254       314      1,546        837        729       573        637        677        742       783
A SSETS
Land                                        678        678       678        678        678       678        678        678        678        678
Port Inataflations                        9,559      9,874    13,268    13,351    14,252    14,525    14,808    15,100    15,403    15,715
Equipnent                                 1,347      1,382     1,432      1,502      1,502     1,533      1,565      1,598      1,633      1,668
Work in Progreas                            770      1,540         11        21          0          0          0         0          0          0
untereat during Construction                 38        135         13        21          0          0         0          0          0          0
Other Fixed Assets                          158        158        158       158        138        158       158        158        158        158
Subtotal                              12,549    13,766    15,560    15,731    16,590    16,894    17,209    17,534    17,871    18,219
Least Depreciation                        3,814      4,187     4,599      5,020      5,465     5,920      6,383      6,855      7,328      7,738
Hot Pied Asasts                       8,735      9,579    10,961    10,711    11,125    10,975    10,826    10,679    10,543    10,481
~I=  ASSETS                                   3          3         3          3          3         3          3          3          3         3
mTOAL ASSETS                              8,992      9.895    12,510    11,551    11,857    11,550    11,466    11,360    11,288    11,266
CURRENT LZABILITIES
Short-term Loana                            808          0         0          0          0         69       138        138        138        138
Payabloo                                      3          3         4          4          4          4         4          4          4          4
Other Current Liabilities                    30         34        36         37         37         38        51         40         53         42
Provisions                                  953        839     1,077        891        358       861        889        853        854       887
Subtotal                               1,794       876      1,116        932        899       973      1,082      1,036      1,050     1,072
LONG-TERM LTABILITIES
Long-Tar. Loans                               0          0     1,593      1,593      1,659     1,590      1,452      1,313      1,175      1,037
Other                                        14        670         14        14         14         14         14        14         14         14
____ _______ ......  ......  _   ------    ----      ......     .....      ......    ......   .   ------_____
Subtotal                                  14       670      1,607      1,607     1,673      1,604      1,466      1,327      1,189     1,051
EQUITY
Paid-in-Capital                           7,655      7,655     7,655      7,655      7,655     7,655      7,655      7,655      7,655     7,655
Ievaluation kRservas                          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
:izlatad Profit/(Loss)                   290       (472)       693      2,130     1,355      1,628      1,317      1,261     1,340      1,392
Transfers to Government                  (2,070)         0         0    (2,304)   (1,219)   (1,802)   (1.569)   (1,395)   (1,417)   (1,403)
Profiti(Loss) of the Year                 1,307      1,166     1,437      1,529      1,492     1,491      1,1t4      1,473      1,469      1,498
----       ....      .__.....   ....__ __.__ ------  ------     ......     ....    __ ...._.  _   ......_
Total Zquity                           7,183     8,348      9,785      9,011     9,283      8,972      8,916      8,995      9,047     9,142
---A. LTARILIT ES                         8,991     9,894    12,508    11,549    11,855    11,549    11,464    11,358    11,286    11,265



- 99 -
AMpEX 6
AtIchment 1
.ge 1 of 2
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PPOJECT
Maior Assumptions for Financial Proiections
A. General
1.        All financial figures in this report have been presented in mid- 1991
constant Ch$ (chilean pesos), and the exchange rate used was US$1 - Ch$350.00.
2.        The financial projections were made for EMPORCHI as a whole and also
for each project port separately, in order to evaluate each port's capacity to
finance its own investment needs.
B. Traffic. Tariffs and Revenues
2.         Traffic   figures used in preparing the financial projections are
those included in Annex 2 of this report. As stated in that annex, traffic
forecasts for Valparaiso and San Antonio were originally prepared by consultants
BERGER-INECON in 1986, and updated by EMPORCHI staff in March 1991, to reflect
traffic developments during the last four years. Traffic projections for San
Vicente port were prepared by INECON consultants in 1987 and updated by EMPORCHI
staff in June 1990. Traffic forecasts for the rest of the ports were prepared by
EWPORCHI's staff in March 1991.
3.        The present tariffs were used in projecting revenues by the main
revenue headings, that is, no changes were introduced either to the structure or
to the level of tariffs. Since all tariffs are expressed in US$ terms, they were
translated into local currency at the exchange rate of US$1 - Ch$ 350.00.
C.  Ooeratina Costs
4.        The total labor force was assumed to increase by an average of less
than 12 p.a., that is, at a much lower rate than traffic, which is estimated to
grow by 3.4Z. This is .'ue to the fact that, since EMPORCHI is not directly
envolved in cargo handling, labor costs are not directly related to traffic
activity.



- 100 -
AMNEX 6
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
5.        Maintenance costs were assumed to grow at the historic rate.
6.        Depreciation was calculated by asset or group of assets at the rates
established in the existing Chilean legislation.
7.        Interest on 1 .ns correspond to interest payable by EMPORCHI on the
loan to be obtained from the Bank (no other loans have been included). The terms
of borrowing from the Wforld Bank were assumed to be 17 years with a five-year
grace period (on the principal). Although the loan would be at the standard
variable rate, the current rate (7.7X) was used for purposes of financing.
D. Main Balance Sheet Items
8.        Accounts receivable were forecast to be 102 of operating revenues.
9.        Accounts payable were forecast to be 1% of maintenance and labor
related (taxes) expenses.
10.       Investments assumed are those of the proposed project plus EMPORCHI's
own investment requirements (US$10-11 million annually), the latter consisting
mainly of minor rehabilitation works on existing infrastructure.
11.       Given that during the construction period San Antonio's internal cash
generation is not sufficient to fully cover its share of the project cost, it has
been assumed that this port borrows funds from other EMPORCHI ports (mainly
Valparaiso) which will be generating surpluses.   San Antonio, however,  is
expected to fully repay these internal loans by the end of the decade, with the
pick-up in traffic that is expected as the project works are completed. These
loans have been reflected in the balance sheets of Valparaiso (other assets), San
Antonio (other long-term liabilities), as well as in the consolidated statements
(with matching amounts under assets and liabilities).



- 101 -
Page 1 of 12
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program
I. Technical Assistance
A. Transport Studies
(i) Development and Implementation of a Port Tariff System
Background. Although current port efficiency is good, and will further
improve with the container-handling technology provided under the proposed
project, to cope with forecast port traffic generated by increasing
foreign trade, important investments will be needed in the near future to
augment port capacity. To create additional incentives for private sector
investments on a competitive basis, the Government considers vital the
introduction of a transparent port tariff system to promote wider
participation of the former, and ensure a rational use of the financial
resources that will be required in the port subsector. The study will be
based on the one prepared in 1988 to analyse Port Tariff Alternatives,
financed under the Bank Loan 2504-CH.
Obiectives. The main objectives of the study are to: (i) establish
methodology and standard procedures for periodically reviewing maximum
tariff levels for regulated port services; (ii) design control mechanisms
to ensure compliance with such tariff levels; and (iii) implement the
tariff regulation system at EMPORCHI's ports.
Scope.   The study should:  (i) analyse the overall port  sector and
regulatory framework, complement the base study, and identify services
that may need to be regulated; (ii) develop simulation models for the
ports of the system related to the objectives of the study along with
tariff control mechanisms; and (iii) assist EMPORCHI in the implementation
of the tariff system, including the resulting tariff levels.
Cost and Timing. The cost based on manpower estimates, exluding taxes ist
Consultants: 24 man-months x US$  4,500       US$ 10.'s 000
6 man-months x US$ 13,000      US$  7cO,000
Travel and related expenses                   US$  14,000
Total                                         USS 200.000
The tentative chronogram will be as follows:



- 102 -
Page 2 of 12
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference   July to September 1991
-     Study Award                           December 1991
-     Completion of Study                   January - December 1992
-     Implementation of Approved
Recormendations                       December 1993
(ii) Port Access Facilities: Technical and Feasibility Studies
Backrround. The Government has prepared Transport Strategy studies for
Valparaiso and other cities. The proposed study would be addressed to the
specific problams affecting access to the ports of San Antonio,
Valparaiso, and San Vicente, engineering design fcr works required, and
their social and economic feasibility.
Objectives. The objective of the study is to improve the flow of port
traffic while alleviating urban congestion in the vicinity of the ports.
Scone. The studies would include, but not be limited to: (a)
identification of alternative improvements; (b) preliminary engineering;
(c) economic and social evaluation; (d) consideration of the activities
within the ports that may be either improved or simplified by transfering
some of them to locations outside the ports, for example fruit inspection
and containers' customs clearance; and (e) social impact, for example
relocation of city's business/homes. Detailed engineering would then be
prepared separately.
Cost and TiminR.  The cost bpsed on manpower estimates, exluding taxes is:
Consultants: 48 man-months x US$ 4000         US$ 192,00u
4 man-months x US$ 13,000      US$  52,000
Surveys and other expenses                    USS  40,000
Travel and related expenses                   US$  16,000
Tottl                                         USS 300.000
The tentative chronogram will be as follows:
-     Preliminary evaluation of solutions         January 1992
-     Plan of Action of future activities         March 1992
-     Complaeentary studies                       December 1992
(iii) Ferrv Terminal at Puerto Montts  Technical and Feasibillhy Studies
Background.   The port of Puertc Montt is the main intermodal transfer
point for passengers and freigh1: coming from or going to X, XI, and XII
Regions by ferry. However, the present ferry terminal was not conceived
taking into account its relations with the o her modes of transportation.
This  fact,  and the  increasing  demnd  associated with  the economic
dev6lopment of the regions makes it necessary to find an integral solution
to the current problems.



- 103 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 12
Q1ective.   The main objective is to study, propose and evaluate the
required investment to solve the problems that the current ferry terminal
pressnts.
ScoRe. The study should be propared at pre-feasibility level and includes
a) a diagnostic of current situations and trends; b) physical needs for
the ferry terminal; and c) economic, financial, and technical analysis to
determine the feasibility of required investment.
Coat and Timina.  The cost based on manpower estimates, exluding taxes is:
Consultantss 20 man-months x US$ 4,000       US$  80,000
Surveys and other expenses                   US$  12,000
Travel and related expenses                  US$   8,000
Total                                        US$ 10.000
The tentative chronogram will be as follows:
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference           March to April 1992
-     Study award                                 July 1992
-     Completion of Study                         August 1992 to April 1993
-     Implementation of Approved
Recommendations                             January 1994
(iv)  Inland N,l.timodal Terminal
Background.   In August 1986, a study financed under Loan 2297-CH was
issued by a consulting firm under the title, "Diagnoellic, Analysis and
Recommendations for the Development of a Multimodal   Corridor between
Santiago and the Ports of the Vth Region".    The main recommendations
supported the development of the corridor, siven the importance of the
container demand at Santiago and the fact that the ports of San Antonio
and Valparaiso are the major gateways for that kind of traffic. Special
emphasis was placed on the need to construct inland multimodal terminals
to efficiently handle containers, but the report recognized that the major
drawback was the requirement by customs to inspect all boxes inside the
po t area.
Qkj ctivs. The main objectives of the study are: (i) to diagnose the
maiz, limitations preventing the development of inlasnd multimodal
torminals; (ii) to recommend solutions to Lhese problemss (iii) to analyze
possible locatioLs of the terminals, market conditions,  and required
Government-financed infrastructure; (iii) to propose schemes for the
financing, administration, and operation of the terminal3; (iv) to prepare
bidding documents, including a regulation system, to requeet private
financing for the terminal; and (v) to recommend ways of controlling or
preventing possible monopolistic cases.



- 104 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 12
Scope. MINTRATEL will supervise the study, and the consulting group to be
hired would include areas such as transport, engineering, economy, legal
and public administration.
Cost and Timing. The cost based on manpower estimates, excluding taxes,
is:
Consultants:  24 man-months x US$ 4,000           US$ 96,000
1 man-month  x US$13,000          US$ 13,000
Travel and related expenses                       US$ 16,000
Total                                             USS125.000
The tentative chronogram will be as follows:
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference           December 1991
-     Study Award                                 June 1992
-     Completion of Study                         December 1992
B. Institutional Studies
(iM Institutional Reorganization of the Infrastructure Sector
Backaround. The Government has already started (through consultants), the
first step of this study, which addresses specific institutional problems
affecting the whole infrastructure sector. The number of possible problem
areas is enormous, and the consultants are planning to submit a draft
report by October 1991 with the results of a diagnostic and preliminary
problem areas identification.
Obiectives. The main objectives of the study are to: (i) prepare a
diagnostic of the existing situation, including sectors such as
irrigation, surface, water and air transport, drinking water, sewage, and
urban; (ii) recommend institutional reforms to improve the management,
operation, and maintenance of the infrastructure sector; and (iii) prepare
draft legislation to support the changes.
Scone. The work will be carried out in two phases. The first one will
comprise a diagnostic of the current situation, including the legal and
institutional framework. The second phase consists of the execution of at
least the following specific studies: water management and uses,
environmental improvements, highway, water and air transport management,
improvement of all activities in the project cycle, budgetary procedures
and allocations, and institutional urban problems.
Cost and Timina.   The cost for the second phase based on manpower
estimates, excluding taxes, is:



- 105 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 12
Consultants: 140 man-months x US$ 5,000           US$ 700,000
8 man-months x US$ 13,000              104,000
Travel and related expenses                             46,000
Total                                             US$ 850.000
The chronogram would be:
-     First Phase                           completed
-     Second Phase                          completion by March 1993
-     Implementation of Approved
Recommendations                       September 1993
(ii) Institutional Set-uD for Small-Scale Fishing Sector
Backaround. New fishing wharves to serve small-scale fishing activities
are at present requested by interested parties to DIRECTEMAR and DOP; if
accepted from safety and technical viewpoints, the request is sent to
MIDEPLAN to process the project. Once it is built by DOP, the wharf is
open to general use, and, in general, no organization assumes
responsibility for its operation, maintenance, and cost recovery.
Obiectives. The main objective is to analyze the legal and institutional
implications of establishing a system to evaluate properly, administer,
maintain and manage (including the collection of user charges), a fishing
wharf.
Scoge. The study would include, but not exclusively: (a) recommendations
on the screening process to select the works; (b) ways of administering
the wharf, for its operation and maintenance; (c) legal aspects involved
in transfering ownership; (d) preparation of related handbooks and
training program; (e) cost recovery through user charges; and (f)
methodology for economic evaluation.
Cost and Timing. The estimated cost, excluding taxes, is:
Consultants: 20 man-months x US$ 3,000           US$  60,000
1 man-month  x US$ 12,000               12,000
Travel and related expenses                            8,000
Total                                            USS  80.000
The tentative chronogram will be as followst
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference           August-September 1991
-     Study Award                                 December 1991
-     Completion of Study                         August 1992
-     Implementation                              December 1992



- 106 -
ANNE 7
Page 6 of 12
(iii) Fishing Facilities in the Vth Region
Background.   The accelerated economic growth of this Region and the
consequences of the 1985 earthquake have created different kinds of
problems for the fishing industry, such as: lack of infrastructure and
assigned land, environmental pollution, interference with non-fishing
activities, conflicting interest with other port users, etc. Moreover,
the port rehabilitation program supported by this project will also affect
these operations during and after construction. This situation requires
immediate attention, given the fast growth of fishing activities in the
Region.
Objectives. The main objective is to elaborate a plan to allow an orderly
and efficient development of the fishing industry in the Vth Region,
including physical as well as institutional matters.
Scope.  The study will include:   (i) a revision of the projections of
fishing activities in the area; (ii) definition of the required
infrastructure to satisfy the demand of artisan, semi-industrial, and
industrial fishing activities; (iii) an economic and social evaluation of
possible projects; (iv) recommendations of financing and operating schemes
of rhe projects by private groups;  and  (v) detailed or preliminary
engineering if financed by the Government or private groups, respectively.
Cost and Timina. The estimated cost, excluding taxes, is:
Consultants:  18 man-months x US$ 3,000           US$ 54,000
Travel and related expenses                       US$  6,000
Total                                             USS 60.000
The tentative chronogram will be:
Preparation of Terms of Reference           March 1992
Study Award                                 June 1992
Completion of the Study                     March 1993
Implementation                              April 1993
(iv) Macrocenter Region
Backtround.   The Government considers it necessary to improve the way
infrastructure investments, both private and public, are carried out in
the Macrocenter Region.
Obiectives. The main objectives are: (i) establish an expected profile for
the infrastructure of the region for the next 5 to 10 years, based on
present trends; (ii) describe the behavior of the main infrastructure
markets and identify the main problems for their development; (iii)
propose a profile based on considerations of efficiency, both eocial and



- 107 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 12
environmental; and (iv) definition and execution of specific studies to be
carried out.
Scope. The study will be conducted in two stages, with the Ministry of
Housing and Urbanization coordinating its execution.
Cost and Timing. The cost, excluding taxes, will be:
Consultants: man-months 20 x US$  3,000           US$  60,000
55 x US$  2,500          US$ 137,500
52 x US$  1,000          US$  52,000
7 x US$ 13,000          US$  91,000
Travel and general expenses                       US$  44,500
Total                                             USS 385.000
The tentative chronogram will be as follows:
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference           September 1991
-     Study Award                                 December 1991
-     Completion of the Study: First Phase        February 1993
S second Phase     October 1993
-     Implementation:                             April 1994
(v)   Libertador/Los Angeles Corridor
Backaround.   The city of Los Andes, located close to the border with
Argentina, showed a significant increase of international road traffic
over the last several years.  At present, the facilities for customs,
agriculture inspections and other related services are provided in
inadequate areas spread over the city, which creates severe problems to
the city as well as to international traffic.
Obiectives.   The main objectives are:   (i) evaluate the economic and
social feasibility of a project that concentrateo in one place all the
required activlties for the international traffic, and whose preliminary
design has already been prepared; (ii) recommend a scheme to administer
the project; (iii) assess its environmental impact; and (iv) recommend the
way to finance it.
Scove. The consultant should investigate the possibility of concessioning
the construction and operation of the terminal to a private group, which
would be entitled to collect adequate charges to the users.
Cost and timing. The estimated cost, excluding taxes, is:
Consultants:    Man-months      30 x US$  3,800         US$ 114,000
15 x US$  1,150         US$  17,250
Travel and related expenses                             US$  18,750
Total                                                    USS 150.000



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 12
The tentative chronogram wl',l be:
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference           August 1991
-     Study Award                                 November 1991
-     Completion of the Study                     March 1992
-     Implementation                              September 1992
(vi) Port Environmental Standards
Background.    In  early  1991,  the  National Agency  of  Environmental
Protection of the Danish Ministry of the Environment prepare an EA for the
port sector in Chile, and some matters were identified as requiring
attention from the enivironmental viewpoint.
Obiectives. The objectives of the study are: (i) to establish a legal and
administrative framework for environmental problems in po-rts; (ii) to
define adequate standards; and (iii) to propose an institutional set-up to
deal with these matters.
Scol3e. The study should: (i) prepare an inventory of the existing
situation; (ii) diagnostic of main problems; (iii) investigate how similar
problems have been solved in other countries; (iv) prepare a detailed
monitoring program to oversee the evolution of the main environmental
problems;   (v)  recommend  the  institutional  framework  to  handle
environmental matters in ports; and (vi) propose solutions and plan of
action to comply with applicable standards.
Cost and Timin2.  The cost would be:
Consultants: 35 man-months x US$ 4,000                    US$140,000
5 man-months x US$ 10,000                      50,000
Travel and general expenses                                   10,000
Total                                                    USS 200,000
The tentative chronogram will be:
-     Preparation of Terms of Reference           September 1991
-     Study Award                                 December 1991
-     Completion of the Study                     April 1993
-     Implementation                              September 1993
C. Engineering Studies
(i) Port Access Facilities
Backaround. Based on the ESTRAVAL and the complementary phase II studies
referred to in para. A (ii) above, basic engineering design will follow.



- 109 -
ANNX 7
Page 9 of 12
ScoDe. Design would be prepared to a level that permits reliable cost
estimates and clearly identifies the social problems that would have to be
tackled before and/or during construction.
Cost and TiminR. The study is expected to be completed in 1994. The cost,
based on manpower estimates, exluding taxes is:
Consultants: 50 man-months x US$ 4,000       US$ 200,000
Surveye and other expenses                   US$  38,000
Travel and related expenses                  US$  12,000
Total                                        USS 250.000
(ii) Small-scale Ports
Background. Once the study on the institutional improvememnts of the
small-scale fishing ports referred to in para. B (ii) is completed,
detailed engineering would be carried out.
Scope. The scope of engineering studies would include topographic and
batimetric surveys, as may be required; assessment of the present
conditions of existing infrastructurel and detailed engineering for each
of the small-scale fishing ports is to be included in the project.
Cost and Timing. The study is expected to be completed in 1994. The cost
based on manpower estimates, exluding taxes, is:
Consultants: 90 man-months x US$ 4,000       US$ 360,000
Surveys and other expenses                   US$  35,000
Travel and related expenses                  US$   5,000
Total                                        USS 400.000
(iii) Ferry Terminal at Puerto Montt
Background. Once the feasibility study referred to in Section A (iii) is
completed, engineering studies would be prepared.
Obiectives. Have engineering designs and technical specifications
completed to a level that allows initiation of the procurement process.
Sco2e. To be defined through the feasibility study.
Cost and Timing. The study is expected to be completed in 1994. The cost
based on manpower estimates, exluding taxes, is:
Consultants: 35 man-months @ US$ 4,000/month                US$140,000
Transport costs/travel expenses                             US$ 20,000
Miscellaneous                                               US$ 40,000
Total                                                       USS200.000



- 110 -
ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 12
(iv) Valparaiso
Background. Detailed engineering will be based on preliminary engineering
contained in the Port Development Plan for the Vth Region and the
recommendations contained in the Container Terminals layout and operations
prepared by consultants.
Obiectives.   Complete   engineering   design,    including   technical
specifications and bidding documents for this project component.
Cost and Timing. The estimated cost of these consultancy services is based
on actual value of a contract for similar services and scope for the port
of San Antonio. The study is expected to be completed 1993.
Total                                       US$ 800.000
(v) Libertador/Los Andes Terminal.
Background. Engineering design would be prepared once the institutional
matters related to this type of facility are satisfactory handled.
Obiectives. Have engineering design completed, including technical
specifications and bidding documents.
Cost and Timing. The study is expected to be completed in 1993. Estimated
cost of this study is about:
Total                                      USS 200.000
D. Construction Supervision
Obiectives and Scope. As appropriate for the project.
Cost. The costs will be as follows:
Port Access Facilities         US$ 100,000
Ferry Terminal at Puerto Montt    250,000
Fishing Wharfes                    500,000
San Vicente                        250,000
San Antonio                      1,200,000
Valparai§ot Baron berth            600,000
Valparaiso: Main works           1,290,000
Libertador/Los Andes corridor      200,000
Total:                                  USS 4.390.000



- 111 -
ANNEX 7
Page ll of 12
E. Proiect MonitorinR
(i) Project Control Unit
Objectives and Scope. As described in para. 3.04
Cost. The cost is estimated as follows:
-     Chief -            84 man-months x US$ 3,000             US$252,000
-     Two Full-Time professionals - 144 man-months x 2,000        288,000
-     Two Part-Time professionals - 52  man-months x 2,500        130.000
670,000
Travel and supporting equipment (computers, fax, etc.)    30,000
Total                                                    qSS?00000
Timing. During project execution (1992-98).
II. Training
1.    Project-related training would be addressed to high-level professional
staff of the following Government agencies: EMPORCHI, IIC, DOP and MINTRATEL.
These are the agencies most directly involved in port planning, financing,
construction, operation, administration, environmental control and maintenance,
and are also responsible for intermodal transport. The training program would
include the participation of professionals, referred to above, in courses,
international conferences and seminars, visits to terminals and ports, and
lectures given in Chile by experts with vast experience in port related matters.
The participation of managerial staff of private port and inland terminal
operators in the program should be encouraged, although loan funds allocated to
training will not cover expenses of private participants. A general training
program including objectives, scope, areas to be covered, beneficiaries,
selection criteria, and format of annual reports on training to be prepared
during project execution, was discussed and agreed with each agency, and related
documents are included in the Project File (Annex 10).
2.    In particular, the training activities of each agency will be primarily
addressed to the followingt   (i) EMPORCHIs the program will comprise the
following areas: planning, port operations, engineering, computer applications,
management of projects and financing. About thirty professionals will benefit
from the program, nine participating in international seminars and twenty-one
visiting areas of interest.   The total estimated amount woule be around
US$100,000; (ii) IICs the program will focus on the areas relevant to this
committee, such as: institutional aspects in the infrastructure sector, resource
allocation and planning for infrastructure, and supervision and coordtnation of
investment programs.   The program will  consist of two seminars  and two
conferences to be held in Santiago, courses, and related activities. The total
amount would be approximately US$100,000; (iii) DOP: the main areas of interest
will  be port  planning  aad engineering.    There will be  around  eighteen
professionals who will participate during project implementation, and the total



- 112 -
ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 12
estimated cost would be US$170,000; and (iv) MINTRATEL: the main areas of
interest will be port planning including physical and strategic planniaig, well-
balanced development of sea-land interface areas, environmental impact,
concession systems for port developments by private groups, multimodal transport,
and decentralization of port administration.   the total estimated coat will
amount to US$130,000.  In summary, the total estimated cost of the training
program would be: US$500.000.



- 113 -
Page I of 3
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Port Operations
A. Current Situation
1.          A number of commercial ports in Chile are owned and administered by
EMPORCHI, the state-owned port enterprise; however, all cargo-handling serviceo
and related equipment,  except quay cranes,  are provided by   several port
operators who are supposed to compete among themselves, although only the larger
ones at each port actually do so. The container crane installed at Valparaiso,
however, is privately owned. Berth assignment is made by EMPORCHI at the ship
agent's request, and daily operations, including use of storage areas, are
coordinated by the enterprise together with the port operators and Customs.
Maritime services, namely, pilotage and towage are also provided by private
pilots and private towage companies, licensed by and under concessions awarded
by DIRECTEMAR, respectively. Container operations are carried out along the same
procedures, the exception being that in the case of Valparaiso containers may be
transferred directly from the ship side to a private, Customs-controlled,
container depot adjacent to the port.
B. Port Productivity
2.          As a result of the modernization of Chile's ports (1.11) productivity
and efficiency increased dramatically. The table below shows a comparison of
efficiency of the project ports with other ports in the world, expressed in
ton/ship/hour using the UNCTAD's Cargo Performance Index (CPI) corresponding to
the average rate based on total time ships occupying berths. The results are
clearly favorable to the project ports, except in containers where the
technological and physical improvements supported by the project would facilitate
a significant increase of the indicator.
COMPARISON OF PORT PRODUCTIVITY INDICATORS 1/
Commodity Group                                     Comparator Ports
San       San    Valpa-   Group I    Group II
Vicente   Antonio  raiso   Countries  Countries
Dry Bulk                   460       220      -       142          42
General Cargo              137       110     105       69          16
Fruit                       -         -      115     n.a.          n.a.
Containers                  -         24      32       60          41
1/ Comparison based on 1986 data for Groups I and II, corresponding to Developed
and Developing Countries, respectively; Chilean ports' indicators correspond to
1990 data.



- 114 -
Page 2 o' 3
C. Future Port Onerations
3.          Future port operations at the project ports is expected to be as
follows:
-     at San Viconte, the prevailing multiple port operator system, most
likely, will be maintained, at the same productivity levels as
today'al
-     at San Antonio, the Government has decided to follow the same
arrangement as at Valparaiso for the provision of cargo handling
services and equipment;
-     at Valparaiso,  the current concessionary  arrangements  for the
provision of cargo-handling services by multiple operators will
continue. The only container crane in this port was provided by the
biggest private port operator, and the terms of the concession
provide for the obligation to serve all vessels requiring the use of
the crane at established hourly rates. The Government has decided
that similar arrangements will be followed for the additional
cranes, but the concession for their provision would be awarded on
a competitive basis. The Chilean Maritime Chamber that represents
most of shipping lines, agents and port operators has already
expressed the interest of its members to provide the necessary
equipment.
4*          In addition to the above, the Exporters Association, representing
exclusively fruit exporters, is currently engaged in negotiations with the local
and foreign authorities responsible for the sanitary inspection, to improve the
existing procedures ,n such a way that this can take place in stations to be
established at strategically located sites closer to che production zones. If the
negotiations are successful, inspection of samples would not delay trucks
carrying the fruit to the ports, and the flow of trucks awaiting to be unloaded
at the ports would be facilitated.
5.          With regard to containerized cargo, LCL imports have still to clear
customs at the port of entry, the exception up to now being a private container
dopot adjacent to the port of Valparaiso controlled by customs. Current
regulations allow customs' clearance at inland depots located within the
municipality of the port of entTy, but none of the existing ones in the
Valparaiso Municipality has yet been staffed by customsl the reasons for the
above are, apparently, shortage of customs personnel and the additional cost that
this arrangement would cause to them. The Bank, throuah the Technical Assistance
Loan (Loan 2504-CH), is currently assisting customs to modernize the system. The
proposed project includes technical assistance for the establishment of inland
container depots closer to Santiago, final destination of the majority of
containerized cargo, where customs inspection and clearance can take place.
rI



- 115 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
6.          Finally, an aspect that was considored in the economic evaluation of
the extension of the port of San Vicente, is that at present there are other
specialized private port facilities under construction that are designed
specifically to handle timber chips; this is expected to divert part of the chips
currently handled at San Vicente, liberating important port areas for more
efficient handling of other forestry products.
D. Small-scale Fishing Ports
7.          The construction of these kind of facilities is the responsibility
of DOP; but theii administration, operation and maintenance is ill-defined to say
the least. The proposed project would include a study to define the operational
requirements, users' charges, administrative arrangements that would have to be
established, and the economic and financial viability of the proposed investment
to carry out the small-scale fishing ports improvement program. Outline terms of
reference for this study are given in Annex 7.



- 116 
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Port Environment Improvement - Plan of Action
Back&round
1.          Improvement of port environmental conditions is already in progress
at Valparaiso, where DIRECTEMAR has taken some measures to prevent pollution of
sea waters, particularly in the port areas, and the Government together with the
Municipality of Valparaiso are responsible for the execution of the Valparaiso
Water and Sewerage Project (Loan 3331-CH) financea by the Bank.  The plan of
action, which is based on the recommendations contained in the Environmental
Assessment of the p--4ect ports prepared by the NAEP of Denmark, is expected to
institutionalize compL2.ance with port environmental standards, and complement the
above mentioned ongoing measures.
Obiectives
2.    The objectives  of the plan are addressed to:  (a) prevent negative
environmental impact at the project ports during construction; (b) identify the
ports' needs to prevent and remedy environmental problems generated by ships
calling on them and bulk-handling (minerals) and storage, and take all necessary
measures to ensure that such needs are properly satisfied; and (c) compile
environmental port standards 1and regulations, including the port basins and
access channels that would have to be complied with by all port operators and
users.  The above regulations and standards will be implemented first at the
project ports and then gradually at all other public and private ports.
Actions to achieve the objectives. The plan would include, but not be limited
to:
(a)   during constructiont (i) the preparation of an analysis of the material to
be dredged at Valparaiso and San Antonio, to determine the degree of its
contamination from port and urban pollutants, and its suitability to be
used as land fill; (ii) analysis of the nature and characteeistics of
marine currents and sediment behavior in areas where dredged material will
be dumped; (iii) obtain and implement or have implemented municipal
regulations and restrictions, including enforcement and monitoring,
concerning transit of construction machinery and vehicles through urban
areas, disposal of demolition materials and any other activity generated
by the construction works that could have a negative environmental effect
in the urban and suburban areas; (iv) in case the analysis referred to in
para. (i) concludes that dredging is not suitable for land fill dredging
material would have to be disposed of farther than 12 miles from the coast
or at a depth deeper than 60 meters; and



- 117 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
(b)   port operations-related actions:  (i) compile and make arrangements to
comply with port environmental standards and regulations; (ii) analyze
operating procedures of the fishing fleet, the fishing and chemical
industries for the handling and transport oi raw tmaterials, processed
products and waste, and define actions required to prevent and reduce
environmental damage; (iii) establish monitoring systems at San Antonio to
evaluate risks of mineral concentrates' dust affecting fruit exports or
any other food products; and at all project ports, procedures to mon tor
compliance by the fishing fleet and industries with environmental
standards and regulations; (iv) develop and implement specific plans at
the project ports to prevent, monitor, and combat environmentally
dangerous accidents; and (v) ensure that project ports are equipped to
receive and dispose of ships' waste.
Consultant services will be retained to prepare terms of reference of
technical assistance required to carry out the plan of action, as well as for
coordinating and monitoring its execution.
implementation Schedule
-  specifications satisfactory to the Bank will be included in the bidding
documents  for all major civil works  concerning disposal  of dredging and
demolition materials and traffic restrictions;
-  terms of reference for the technical assistance required to implement the
detailed plan of action to be completed not later than June 30, 1992;
-  studies to be completed and port standards to be compiled not later than
November 30, 1993;
- monitoring and implementation of the consultants' recommendations not later
than December 30, 1993.
Long-term Ob ectives
3.    All  other environmental problems  generated by  the cities'  sewerage
discharge into the sea and particularly in the ports and harbors are expected to
be dealt with through a separate proCram that would include treatment plants,
submarine sewerage emissaries, etc. Limits and restrictions for the disposal of
industrial waste in port areas would be defined based on standards to be compiled
and implemented during the project.



- 11s -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Prolect File
The following documents and data, obtained from the different agencies
involved in port activities, are available in the Project File:
A. General
a.     "Los Puertos y su Evolucion Historica"  (Development  of EMPORCHI
Ports), EMPORCHI, 1990.
b.     "Plan de Desarrollo Portuario Va. Region y Factibilidad la. Etapa"
(Port Development of the Vth Region and Feasibility of 1st. Phase), Berger-
Inecon. June 1988.
c.     "Ampliacion de la C-ipacidad Portuaria VIII Region" (Port Capacity
Increase in the VIIIth Region), Inecon, July 1987.
d.     "The Development Plan of the Ports of Valparaiso and San Antonio in
the Republic of Chile", Japan International Cooperation Agency, February 1986.
e.     "The Distribution Chain and the Competitiveness of Latin American
Exports: Port Modernization in Chile", Economic Commission for latin America and
the Caribbean, December 1989.
f.     "Diagnostico, Analisis and Recommerlations para el Desarrollo de un
Corredor de Transporte Multimodal entre Sant.% Ego y Puertos de la Va. Region"
(Multimodal Transport Corridor between Santiago and Vth Region Ports, Inecon-
Containerbases-Freightliners, August 1986.
g.     "Monografia Talcahuano/San Vicente", EMPORCHI, 1989.
h.     "Inversion Publica Eficiente: Un Continuo Desafio" (Efficient Public
Investment), MIDEPLAN, March 1991.
i.     "Proyectos Privados de T-fraestructura Portuaria" (List of Private
Ports Projects), March 1991.
J.     Set of Summarized Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
Component, Government, July 1991.
k.     Set of Summaries for the Training Component, Government, July 1991.



- 119 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
B. Economics
a.     "Compendio Estadistico"  (Statistical Report),  Statistics National
Institute, 1990.
b.     "Boletin Estadistico Anual" (Annual Statistical Bulletin), DIRECTEMAR,
1986 through 1990.
c.     "Boletin Estadistico Ano 1990" (Annual Statistical Bulletin 1990),
EMPORCHI.
d.     "Annual Bulletin of Maritime Transport Statistics", Maritime Chamber
of Chile, 1990.
e.     "Proyecciones de Carga Puertos de la V Region, Valparaiso and San
Antonio" (Traffic Projections for Valparaiso and San Antonio), March 1991.
f.     "Proyeccion Transferencia de Carga Sistema Portuario VIII Region"
(Traffic Projections for VIIIth Region Ports), June 1990.
g.     "Primera Etapa de Desarrollo Puertos de Valparaiso y San Antonio:
Evaluacion Economica" (Economic Evaluation of Valparaiso and San Antonio Plans),
EMPORCHI, June 1991.
h.     "Primera Etapa Desarrollo  Puertos de Valparaiso y San Antonio:
Evaluacion Economica de Obras Reparacion Muelle Baron" (Economic Evaluation of
Rehabilitation of Baron Berth), EMPORCHI, October 1990.
i.     "Evaluacion  Economica  Ampliacion  Puerto  San  Vicente"  (Economic
Evaluation of San Vicente Sub-Component), May 1991.
j.     "Accesos a los Puertos de Valparaiso, San Antonio y San Vicente" (Port
Access to Valparaiso, San Antonio and San Vicente), March 1991.
C. Enzineerina
a.     Decree Establishing DOP Organization, MOP, May 1991.
b.     "Container Facility Study", Sandwell, March 1991.
c.     "Marco General para la Provision de Equipamiento en las Terminales de
Contenedores en Valparaiso y San Antonio" (Operation and Equipping Container
Terminals at Valparaiso and San Antonio), July 1991.
d.     "Manual  de  los  Puertos  Operados  por  EMPORCHI;  1984"  (EMPORCHI
Operating Manual 1984), EMPORCHI;
e.     "Manual  de  los  Puertos  Operados por EMPORCHI;  1986"  (EMPORCHI
Operating Manual 1986), EMPORCHI.



- 120 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
f.     "Lineamientos para la Evaluacion de los Aspectos Ambientales de los
Proyectos Sectoriales del Propuesto Proyecto Sectorial de Infraestructura I
(Transporte)", (Guidelines for Environmental Assessment of High-Priority
Infrastructure Projects), MIDEPLAN, July 1991.
g.     "Analisis  y  Evaluacion  del  Impacto  Ambiental  del  Programa  de
Rehabilitacion de los Puertos de las Regiones V and VIII"  (Analysis  and
Environmental Impact Assessment of Projects in Port Rehabilitation Program,
Region V and VIII), NAEP, August 1991.
D. Financial
a.     "Alternativas de Tarificacion Portuaria" (Port Tariffs), Universidad
Catolica de Chile, October 1998.
b.     "Manual de Tarifas Portuarias" (Port Tariffs Manual), ENPORCHI, 1989.
C.     "Proyecto de Decreto- Aumento de Tarifas" (Proposed Decree for Tariff
Increase), EMPORCHI, 1990.
d.     "EMPORCHI y su Desarrollo Historico" (Historical Aspects of EMPORCHI),
ENPORCHI, no date.
e.     "Balance General y Analisis Financiero- Talcahuano/San Vicente 1987,
1988, and 1989" (Financial Statements Talcahuano/ San Vicente 1987, 1988, and
1989), EMPORCHI.
f.     "Informe  Resultados  Economicos  1984  Talcahuano/  San  Vicente"
(Financial Results 1984 Talcahuano/ San Vicente), EMPORCHI.
8.     "Memoria y Balance de EMPORCHI 1984" (EMPORCHI Annual Report 1984),
EMPORCHI.
h.     "Informe Economico de EMPORCHI  1985"  (Financial Reports EMPORCHI
1985), EMPORCHI.
i.     "Balance General de EMPORCHI 1985" (EMPORCHI's Balance Sheet 1985),
EMPORCHI.
J.     "Estado de Resultado San Antonio 1985" (Financial Results San Antonio
1985), EMPORCHI.
k.     "Memoria EMPORCHI 1986" (EMPORCHI Annual Report  1986), EMPORCHI.
1.     "Memoria EMPORCHI 1987" (EMPORCHI Annual Report  1987), EMPORCHI.
m.     "Memoria EMPORCHI 1988" (EMPORCHI Annual Report  1988), EMPORCHI.



- 121 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
n.     "Balance  General  EMPORCHI  1988"  (EMPORCHI  Balance  Sheet  1988),
EMPORCHI.
o.     "Balance  General  EMPORCHI  1989"  (EMPORCHI  Balance  Sheet  1989),
EMPORCHI.
p.     "Analisis Financiero EMPORCHI  1989"  (EMPORCHI Financial Analisis
1989), EMPORCHI.
q.     "Balance General EMPORCHI Junio 1990" (EMPORCHI Balance Sheet  June
1990), EMPORCHI.
r.     "Analisis Financiero EMPORCHI Junio 1990" (EMPORCHI Financial Analisis
June 1990), EMPORCHI
s.     "Balance General EMPORCHI 1990"  (EMPORCHI Balance Sheet December
1990), EMPORCHI.
t.     "Analisis Financiero EMPORCHI 1990" ( EMPORCHI Financial Analisis
December 1990), EMPORCHI.



MAP SECTION



CbEXO2<Q>-OdO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -1 O N                                                                                                            q                    tu             3
j                  TaobmaQo  s09 .iaVondoa             {                                  |            ATA                                                   -.      5~
l d                                                                          Ni M La ,  doaDb             O.lH ndo Mam                                                        Aoe   Lao
Aaiao Tp    L,  RL Z Trn                                                                                         opg /gTi                                                             o-b>             IS'1    iE]vctrn
E-I.,  oil. ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ O,                       ~                 .
Caoo,Ta  CaIohpao4re.                                               CORP<:              0 El Tr(nsato                                            Cams  _ To Tbo L/h.1
:IerrIhBt~~~ N011:§                                                                   9     RT                                                k       m      ~      0T      Cql  oSo'
Ioaiqaa      0 La            oy D.a,  (0w H                                                ue i             tln  0R.5lo  >
S., ~ ~      ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         0                               P.o~.   AGNTN
Co/aooo  AoaS e.                                             Chnc        j         ,La,a              0, 50 000Z                                P0 ,L0q                   >>r
T-pill05  .e-                                                            =         f>       +      C       P dnEtnc  
S    ~ ~                                                           A TI Soaoa,a    To~~~~~~~ A  
A.a.9                                         G-                                                                                                                       T -I,o.o 
]                                                                Too              CI ,d iLm:  _ IISr           d a; x e 
Ch6-                                                                   L. W.-                  V.dvi  >L>-!PCoog
Go lIau,a                                             Toaaa \         L,o   on          5oo      a do  CIlIa                                                     00
S.I.   AI-9S,                        ....                                                WT I. -L
F j T / } si ~~~~~~TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
1  0   1  2                    cg,s,,, n            lchotent                                               ~PROJECT
C-rrizoC Boiop_. j, L                                                                                                                                       TRANSPORT SYSTEM
ManNc9>             alamobror                                                  00 04,a rallo                                                    Go: Luc :olo  801.0  PROJECT PORTS
P me Lo      \.Li                                                                                                                                       MAJOR EM1P<RCHI PORTS
°--,        CMLo,o ApO                                                                              :                                                          OanR PRIVATE o ORTS
0                                                    /Af  (                   Toao             0      0     T.a EXISTING53ASICROADS
Sg   Slv. i 1:  i                                                f  r2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NAT ONAL
cf/cimmbo [O 5m /Usn P o X = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY R.5 ONAL
tb9And:c ll    Fl                                                        ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~Ag R f <                          L    ROUTE NUMBERS
It.      l                                                                     P.:. Ch-b-<:buc:°coihoiqo  1  a00                               MAIN RAI.ROADS
'b C i   .- °o:_,,                                                                                             r                                   RIVERS
E-unir qv.b   : e                                     t .              ,0xX  S:.mmor:                         4K   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATiONAL A!RvCRTS
e:mb:rboll t  j                                                        Ch.le Cnic                            ID   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
>  t  9                                                                   <    f                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~         ~       ~~~~~~0 REGION CAPITALS|
\   f i,llopel  \_,                                               9        i                              °   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~SELECTED CTlES  r
LqL Vllo>/ \ {) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~REGION BOUNDARIES
rt V rP r rio~~~~~~~                                                                          ~~~~~~ Chrg           -  INTERNATIONAL ROUNDAR~IES
Ilo,iIla,s                          m  edo.} 
3- EoaaIada~~~~~~~~~/                                                        .'-'~~~~                                                                         I 
.00~ ~~~~~~~~d.
rh;smopL  baenpepor db hwor/#wnLsfflrerSezd~ffie/>hrde   I                     </IzOtHiSSsns3                           o    E      120   C LOMEERS
0'nnn.ence    of   maders   a   d   1s   e   elu  izolr  r.  d   e  .nsem:/  ............................... of hffl Wo.;d ...... I \ _20                        MI ES
.. bwL Gmw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~poo,d;m1aon.                                                         PPo. dond boun:izro_n.. 
m:d    Cmpyon,h,eoarl,I. dmLm   7n                                       TeLoa                     r1.neIi                              
1nhrelloue  m     I 0010000o.e... pne:                                                *m                                                             2          O  qE 
Cuhaaa bwbP,,a ne.    1.                                                   La Maoaaiooa 
E.,R;aAmaoP,Ool



IBRD 23 03
A             BARON BERTH                                                                                                                                                                  C H I L E
Cross Section                 L,ghting T-oor,
CANE PALS -;- --                   L-20Meters M'\-                                                                                                                          TRANSPORT
VS.68Meder       8E-NlRTt2, C      QL-,=O  C,ET,E-P,LATF 0RM                                                                      .                       FOR 0FTAdl[            INFRASTRUCTURE
P.bb.rodrr=F==>R                                                                                                                              rod, BYERNSTH C  I OF BAON lERIH
NEWSTG REINFORCED                                                                                                                VALARI
TROLLEY  J  ~~!9 CON4CRETE PLATFRM
________                                                                                                                                                                          N  PORT RCONSTRUCTION
ARAIJ^_ak1t_________ _                                                               .,. ARN .BR H 
0.00 M| Q     ,rS                                   _ATBNO CONCRETE                                                                                               ydSOUTH MOLE BREAKWATER  Ak; A
PRQjEJECI CMPONE-NTS IN RFD
AREAS TO BE DREDGED TO
F0R CROSS SECITON                                                                         1 0   ETER
B  v  /o                             X BARON BERTHA                                              OP BERTH 2SAND 3                                                                         .OMETERS
BARON  BERTH   ~~~~~~\ 0  .~~~  SEE INSETO                                                                   11111 ~~~~~~PROJECT AREAS
7       4~~                                                                                                                                                        "m               BUILDINGS AND SHEDS
C , '   i A' N                                                                                                    .                           TO BE DEMOLISHED
*1                                                                                                            ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING BUILDINGS
LU7J~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~AND SHEDS
For Croon Sro                                                                     ,        ;                                                       ,~                             0C  BERTH NUMBERS
For C, Bsr =.                                                                _                                                                                                          DEPTH IN METERS
BOR-Be A                                                                            -.RAI LROADS
ARA TOI   RDrE     .§s                                        Tro no                                                                            rI.sw.....r4IrBrr&.,k~I
PROJECT                                                                                                                   _____________________  r0    HMd,B0p B0rs.T.
\58s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.f .     Poe                                              t-                                              -  - d.   
COMPONENTS                                                                          0    RA     L-                                                                                                             - tI   r   .  v
IN RED                                                                                R            
TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BE EOLISHDTErin  mncon x  -|Y-!20 
C                                                                                                                      D              BERTH 2AND 3                                         OVAS
- EXISTINGBUILDINGSANDSHEDS          _                         __ _                                                 Cross        t Sci                                                  BRAZIL'
()   BERTTH(   NU            ERTH                    RTRTh                                                   Jre                                                          '       \KIOEES                       3
DEPTHS IN METERS   2oNTD55RSoA N50 c ..                    | -  -NMEERS                                                                                             FARVEIA
CRANEMLS1 r-        2AND30E T           L.    -                                                                                                      U
METE16 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~NVMER19
EroerRency  ~                 jj~,CONTAINER                                 /P-                                                  J BM
Eotr-ooc/Ers,tIEYARDARETN
E JPROJECT AREA
___BUILDINGS AD SHEDS                                  Emegory                                    aeB ACKILLI
TO BE REMODELED                                  EnTranc/MBo___ INTERNATIOFOAL
BUILDINGS ANID SHEDS                                                                                                                                                                             UNAE
LI TO BE DEMOLISHED                                                             Te .i1 En,trance nMI-
EXISTING BUILDINGS AND SHEDS                                                            S0   SOT    TOOT
G)   BERTH NUMBERS                                                                                                                                                                         Iti  DEOMTR        TO1
DEPTHS IN METERS               PNOT SHONDONBAINSET a N5                                            250
RAILROADS              PROjECil COmTTONCN I IN PFI                                  METERS                PROJECT COMPONENTS IN RED                                  n         S        o         n
NOVEMBER T991



IBRD 23104
A                 MULTIPURPOSE BERTH #2                                                                                                                                                         C H I L E
Cross Section                                        OCEAN                                                                                                      TRNSPORT
QUARRY ROCK AND                                J                                                  \A¢,L\                                                 INFRASTRUCTURE
GRAVEL FILL                                                                                   P UA                                                                PROJECT
I   LEVELS IN METERS                                 I                                                                                               :             SAN ANTONIO
PiisY                PORT RECONSTRUCTION
N1      54 40 METeRi                                                                                                                           _WAY
I t3.80 ,,   , I  _ 
i OLOO  ~     ~         9,AREA TO0 BE RECLAIMED
- i  -  PROJECT BOUNDARY
P                                                  ~AROJECT COBNEN                                                                                s I  N   R zD 6 MeTEK ai i, : C + 4 < m V t wJ X        _             RAILROADS
I<                                                                                                                                        ` ---20-  DEPTHS IN METERS
BESM   OF                                                                            BERTH                                                                          199
0.00                       ~~~~~~~~COLLAPSED BERTH                                      ERIRRESOBEDEGE   C
-000
- 10, -1 1,OR.12 METERS
-RB-RH- "                                                 $                     I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW
1     H/ACTORS          132                                                                     R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHING~AE~                            0
1.20.00                                                                                                             MRIH ~~~~~~~~~~~ETRSMErERS
STEEL   ALS EE-J.OR                       '<Bpm 
SPACED EVEFT        4                                                                                                         .WNZY   ,.pO,4l,N.N
PROJECT COmPONEN  S IN RED                                                                                                                                                                            
B     MULTIPURPOSE BERTH  #3                                              235 1] TIER-U                                                                                                       8LIVA'
Cross Section                                               ESIGSEIStA                               7BRAZIL
MBJLITJRSR~E                       _          IPAA-
I    LEVELS IN METERS           BRBTH                  WT-                                                                            PACIFIC   -PRGI
I     I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TXAT
METER                       B 
CON E.
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BERTHI      SCTNOF                                                                         .LEIOUUGA
ISEE INSET                                                                     AJO
BERTHo .),                                                                 ANTONI      ARGENTINA
I1                       /                                                  C SN
I-400~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~C DSeIN FLE,                             , /I                                                                                                   CeNTE
RYQAVTELRC                                             PIERS TO BER51,
AND ~~~~~,                                                                                                                              3         INTERNATIONAL
0E4D GRAVEL   DEMOLISHED  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J1 ~~BOUNDARIES
ER                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATLANTIC
To ST 0PlSGEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            1                           .,~~~ A   N                                        OCEAN
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~RB-                        YARD                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                     Soo    15CR
B//BET                                                                                                                                        TB' ~SEE PP PLS  UBTTINKILOMETERS         0
SPACED EVEY            I       D
IfROJECI COmPONENTS IN RED                                   wMTR                                                                                                                     E-                         - --
NOVEMBER 1991



I                *              ' ~~~~          ~          ~~I *NIJ   '     /I+J        i        r
IBRD 23 1O'
A                                         BERTH ZERO
Cross Section                                                                                                                         CAUN                       C  Hi  I    F
44         ?bd5ML_ 16,5SAPPRO6                                                                                                                                    TRANSPORT
E   6M6U$  -METERSA    .                                  Nj                                                          -                                     INFRASTRUCTURE
_ 4 |  | |P  PAVN1i  Y9-r,  *8 ~  1 t     'PROJECT
I      XISIING SCAV/AX
RUBBER                                     j     -    IRO         60,0Xj,  ,,  Ar B                                                                               SAN  VICENTE  PORT
R*BEFNE-OO                     , Ui t|'                      ''"tPOC(l{t[O                                                                                                  EXTENSION,BERTH  ZERO
I ' I a ,A,[13a,@- <+ 5 \ ,, ,~~~~~~~FI 
z   } i  AtE'lrSis 1'      IMSLTHA   AVLOAVELFILL     /          .>       >              
.GRA V .  _   ELzKANrs                   oSw                                                  !                     tPORT EXTENSION AREA
COSaf  F   (   .   ENSTING SCOREr)                                                                             ---  PORT BOUNDARY
_ TANK FARMS
IC                                                                                                                                  R . F^AY ITT TAN VlR  VIN( INl
. . I                           *                                                   .1Thuefl5 ''4rd &C>i)& w  @/
LEVELS IN METERS                                     2400                PIL70                                                                                          I                          P              d
I20                                                                                                                          0                     50w                    IODC
- STEET PILES                                                                                    |                            RS
PROJECT COMPONENTS IN RED  L- a.00                                                                                                                                              /
B                                                  BERTH ZERO                                                                                                                                P U   BOVI1          f
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                            B0,                                BRAZIL
J     RUBBER FENDERS
100 TON BOLLARDS
BERTH ZERO                                                                                         /)
>-Z/       RECLAIMED AREA
I;:.    L BACKFILL                                                                                      -TLPAMSOUR A
DEPTHS IN METERS                                                                                     A   l-; Ot                                                        ANTOO        ARGENTINAP
SAN
FOR CROSS                                                                                                                                                           'CENT
OCeTICO  OT _O _    ,                   I __/,_J_____-                                                   .,      .    i   |        - ______,                                                                    o
ORSIH ?ERO                                                                                                                                                         0*0
SRE INSET A                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL
__-________________!____\                                                                                                        :            BOUNDARIES
ATLANTIC
PROJECT COMPONENTS IN RED                                  .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    500                                                                                             1 650Wv 
BERTH 1                                                                                                                                                                                                   500    100N
______________________________                                                                                                                                   K)LOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL MEER
EOJSTIMG OANE RAILS -Z, 
NOVEMBER 1991



