Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3426 CH
(Transport Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 21, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3426 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and EMPORCHI pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central de Chile;
 
(c)
"Eligible Investments" means works or goods (other than those included in 
Part A of the Project) which have been evaluated and selected in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement and have been approved by the Bank 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(d)
"EMPORCHI" means Empresa Portuaria de Chile, an enterprise established 
pursuant to Decree-with-force-of-law (DFL) No. 290 of 1960 of the Borrower as amended 
to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"Fifth Region" means Chile's Administrative Region (Quinta Region) 
defined in Decree Law 575 of July 10, 1974;
(f)
"Macrocenter Region" means the Metropolitan, Fifth, and Sixth Regions, 
all as defined in Decree Law 575 of July 10, 1974; 
(g)
"MOP" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas, the Public Works Ministry of 
the Borrower;
(h)
"MOP Port Investment Program" means the program of port investments for 
the period 1992 through 1994 as set forth in a letter furnished to the Bank by the 
Borrower on November 13, 1991;
(i)
"PCU" means the Project control unit established within MOP pursuant to 
MOP Resolution No. 2530 dated September 27, 1991 and which will operate in 
coordination, and following the directives of the Borrower's coordinating unit 
composed of the executive secretary of the Borrower's Interministerial Infrastructure 
Committee and representatives from the Borrower's Ministries of Finance, Planning and 
Transport, EMPORCHI and MOP's Directorate of Ports;
(j)
"Port Environmental Plan of Action" means the plan of action prepared by 
the Borrower for solving environmental problems currently existing in the Project 
Ports (as defined below), and included in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated 
November 13, 1991;
(k)
"Project Ports" means the ports of San Vicente, San Antonio and 
Valparaiso;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
"Tenth Region" means Chile's Administrative Region (Decima Region) 
defined in Decree Law 575 of July 10, 1974.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of seventy-one million dollars 
($71,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Page  4
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, engineering, administrative and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out, and shall under the terms of the Beneficiary Agreement cause EMPORCHI to 
carry out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into a beneficiary agreement with EMPORCHI, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, 
those set forth in Schedule 7 to
this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Beneficiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Beneficiary Agreement or any provisions 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall before commencing to execute, or authorizing 
the execution of, or committing funds for the execution of, a port-related investment 
within or in the hinterland of
the Project Ports: (a) inform the Bank of the proposed investment, and make an 
assessment of the impact of such investment on the Project; and (b) give the Bank an 
opportunity to comment on the proposed investment.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) review with the Bank, by not later than 
June 30 in each year, starting in 1992, any new investments to be included in the MOP 
Port Investment Program for each respective subsequent twelve-month period; and (b) 
consult with the Bank before committing itself to or making any capital expenditures 
exceeding $5,000,000 under such MOP Port Investment Program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
Page  5
agree, Eligible Investments shall be evaluated and selected in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in Schedule 8 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to 
enable EMPORCHI to meet its obligations under the Beneficiary Agreement and, in 
particular, those referred to in Schedule 7, paragraphs 7 and 8, to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EMPORCHI, or for the suspension of 
Page  6
its operations.
(b)
The Borrower or EMPORCHI shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Beneficiary Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Beneficiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and EMPORCHI and that all decrees required for the effectiveness thereof have 
been enacted; and
(b)
that the Borrower shall have completed the staffing of the PCU.
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Beneficiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EMPORCHI and is effective and 
legally binding upon the Borrower and EMPORCHI according to its terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 21, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago
Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CL
With copy to:
Ministry of Public Works
Morande 59 6a Piso
Santiago
Chile
Page  7
Telex:
240777
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Carlos Hurtado Ruiz-Tagle
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf
of the Treasurer General
of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Countersigned on behalf
of the Controller General
of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  8
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1) Civil works               49,800,000        49%
(2) Goods                        600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 77%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3) Consultants'              13,300,000        100%
    services and
    training
Part B of the Project
(4) Eligible                   7,300,000        (i) 49% for works;
    Investments                                 and (ii) 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures, 100% of
                                                local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 77% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally,
                                                for goods
                              __________
         TOTAL                71,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$7,100,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures under Part A of 
the Project before that date but after March 4, 1991.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  9
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to rehabilitate, modernize and expand the 
facilities of the Project Ports to cope with forecast traffic up to the year 2000; (b) 
to increase efficiency in the Borrower's port activities; (c) to alleviate  the 
congestion caused by port traffic in urban areas of the Borrower; (d) to promote 
private sector participation in port development and operations and the introduction 
of new cargo-handling technologies; (e) to support the institutional strengthening of 
the infrastructure sector of the Borrower; (f) to improve environmental conditions at 
the Project Ports; and (g) to support transport sector efficiency.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Ports Investment Program
 
1.
Construction of one additional berth for general cargo services at the port of 
San Vicente.
2.
(a)
Reconstruction and modernization of three berths for general cargo and 
container services (including hydraulic studies, engineering studies related to berth 
4, paving and utilities of a container yard, roads and ancillary buildings and 
dredging) at the Port of San Antonio.
(b)
Construction of a fishing wharf and related facilities (including 
dredging for temporary fishing facilities) at the port of San Antonio.
3.
(a)
Reconstruction and modernization of about three berths for container, 
multipurpose and general cargo services (including paving and utilities of a container 
yard, roads and ancillary buildings, dredging and rehabilitation of existing cranes) 
at the Port of Valparaiso.
(b)
Rehabilitation of the Baron berth for fruit export services (including 
dredging), at the port of Valparaiso.
4.
(a)
Provision of equipment for monitoring the environmental conditions at the 
Project Ports.
(b)
Provision of equipment for improving the environmental conditions at the 
Project Ports.
(c)
Provision of at least one container crane at each of the ports of San 
Antonio and Valparaiso.
5.
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of public sector agencies involved 
in the Borrower's transport sector through:
(a)
feasibility and engineering studies (other than those referred to in 2 
(a) above) for port-related investments including Eligible Investments;
(b)
training and provision of advisory services in intermodal transport, and 
in transport infrastructure and planning, of professional staff of the Borrower's 
agencies concerned with such
subjects;
(c)
(i) studies on: (A) ferry terminals at the Borrower's Tenth Region; (B) 
the institutional set-up for small-scale fishing activities, and for fishing 
activities in the Fifth Region; (C) prefeasibility studies for port access facilities; 
(D) inland intermodal terminals and expansion of custom inspection activities in such 
terminals; (F) port tariffs; (G) port environmental standards; (H) an institutional 
reorganization of the Borrower's infrastructure sector; and (I) infrastructure 
investments in the Borrower's Macrocenter Region; and (ii) other studies acceptable to 
the Bank;
(d)
supervision of the implementation of the Project, including the 
construction and/or reconstruction activities under Part A.1, A.2 and A.3 above.
Page  10
Part B:
Carrying out of Eligible Investments.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1997
through   July 15, 2008
2,960,000
 
On January 15, 2009
2,920,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  11
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years but not
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more and $250,000 or 
more, respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
I.
Works
 
1.
Works or groups of works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than 
$3,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $22,000,000, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Works or groups of works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $300,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
II.
Goods
 
1.
Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
Page  12
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 thereof; (ii) all contracts for works of a value of more than 
$4,000,000 equivalent, procured pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 thereof; and 
(iii) the first two contracts procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.I.1 and 
C.II.1 hereof, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
    Actions to be taken by
        the Borrower                            Date (by)
1.  (a) Maintain the PCU with
    functions, structure and
    staffing satisfactory to the
    Bank.
    (b) Maintain an inter-
    ministerial Project
    coordination unit with
    representatives of all                      At all times, for
    agencies concerned with                     subparagraphs (a)
    the Project and with powers                 and (b) and
    responsibilities satis-                     promptly as needed
    factory to the Bank.                        for subparagraph
                                                (c), respectively
    (c) Provide all funds and
    other resources as shall be
    needed for the operation of
    such units.
2.  (a) Furnish to the Bank                     December 31, 1992
    for its comments the
    results of the study
    referred to in Part A.5
Page  13
    (c) (i) (B) of the Project
    including its recommenda-
    dations as to the
    evaluation and selection
    criteria for Eligible Invest-
    ments consisting of the
    construction of fishing berths.
    Actions to be taken by
        the Borrower                            Date (by)
    (b) Based on the results                    June 30, 1993
    of such study adopt policy
    guidelines, satisfactory
    to the Bank, for small-scale
    fishing development in the
    Borrower's territory.
3.  Carry out the Port                          As specified in
    Environmental Plan                          the schedule
    of Action.                                  included therein
4.  (a) Furnish to the Bank for                 December 31, 1992
    its comments, the proposed
    scope of the study
    referred to in Part A.5 (c)
    (i) (C) of the Project.
    (b) Commence implementation of the          December 31, 1993
    recommendations of such study,
    taking into account any comments
    made by the Bank thereon.
5.  Adopt, and cause EMPORCHI                   December 31, 1993
    to adopt, a new system, satis-
    factory to the Bank, for
    charging tariffs in the ports
    administered by EMPORCHI.
6.  Furnish to the Bank for its                 December 31, 1992
    comments the results of the
    study referred to in
    Part A.5 (c) (i) (D) of the
    Project.
7.  Cease to authorize the                      March 31, 1992
    operation of any fishing
    activities at berth 3 in
    the San Antonio port.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  14
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
Page  15
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of the
Beneficiary Agreement
1.
EMPORCHI shall make available, promptly as needed, all funds as shall be 
required as counterpart funds for the implementation of Part A (1) through (4) (a) and 
Part A (5) (c) (i) (F) and (G) of the
Project.
2.
EMPORCHI shall make available to the Borrower the amounts required by the 
Borrower: (a) to repay the Loan allocated to Parts A (1) through (4) (a) and Part A 
(5) (c) (i) (F) and (G) of the Project, under the terms stipulated in Section 2.07 of 
the Loan Agreement;
(b)
to pay interest on the amounts disbursed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
for Parts A (1) through (4) (a) and Part A (5) (c) (i) (F) and (G) of the Project 
under the terms stipulated in Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
(c)
to pay the commitment charge stipulated in Section 2.04 of the Loan 
Agreement in respect of unwithdrawn amounts allocated to Parts A (1) through (4) (a) 
and Part A (5) (c) (i) (F) and (G) of the Project.
3.
(a)
EMPORCHI shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition;
(b)
EMPORCHI shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, as soon as available, 
but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of 
each such year: (A) certified copies of 
its financial statements 
for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as 
well as the audit thereof, as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
4.
EMPORCHI shall continue to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices.
5.
EMPORCHI shall, at all times, continue to operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
Page  16
engineering, financial, economic and environmental practices.
6.
EMPORCHI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
7.
(a)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EMPORCHI shall produce, for 
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not
less than 48% of the annual average of EMPORCHI's Project expenditures incurred, or 
expected to be incurred, for that year and the next following fiscal year.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, EMPORCHI shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by EMPORCHI and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower a 
copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EMPORCHI would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for EMPORCHI's fiscal years covered by such review, 
EMPORCHI shall promptly take all
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net nonoperating 
income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration,
adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
(excluding 
provision for depreciation and other noncash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash 
dividends and other cash  distributions of 
surplus, 
increase in working capital other than cash and other cash outflows 
other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net nonoperating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current 
assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which 
could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and 
prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal 
year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within 
twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
Page  17
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vii)
The term "Project expenditures", means all expenditures on account 
of civil works, 
equipment consultants services and training included 
in Parts A.1 through 4 (a) and 
Part A (5) (c) (i) (F) and (G) of the 
Project.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
8.
(a)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EMPORCHI shall maintain, for 
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991, a ratio of 
total working expenses to total
operating revenues not higher than 46% .
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, EMPORCHI shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by EMPORCHI and satisfactory to the Bank,  review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and 
the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, 
the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EMPORCHI would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for EMPORCHI's fiscal years covered by such review, 
EMPORCHI shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this paragraph:
 
(i)
the term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, and adequate maintenance; 
and
(ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
9.
The Borrower shall transfer to EMPORCHI ownership of each of the investments to 
be made by the Borrower under Part A (1) through (4) (a) of the Project upon its 
respective completion.
SCHEDULE 8
Evaluation and Selection Criteria
for Eligible Investments
I.
Eligible Investments shall be evaluated in accordance with the principles of 
economic evaluation criteria contained in the Borrower's Ministry of Planning 
publication entitled "Inversion Publica Eficiente, un Continuo Desafio," dated March 
1991, or in any other publication that the Borrower may issue and which shall have 
been approved by the Bank for this purpose and, in particular, with the following 
investment specific criteria:
A.
For port improvement investments:
 
1.
The benefits generated by investments in port improvements can be identified as 
savings (comparison of the with- and without project situations) in either some or all 
of the following cate-
gories: (i) port handling costs; (ii) operating and maintenance costs; (iii) ship 
waiting time and other costs due to port capacity shortage; (iv) ship service time 
costs; (v) hinterland transport costs; and (vi) seismic cost.
Page  18
2.
The without-project situation shall reflect no significant new investments 
except the ones either under construction or soon to start, but will include 
improvement on existing conditions in such a way to set a highly efficient 
without-project situation.
3.
Relevant cost during construction shall be included as part of the analysis.
 
4.
The economic evaluation shall be based on normal traffic, but special cases 
acceptable to the Bank may justify the inclusion of traffic generated by the 
investment, if significant.
5.
Traffic projections when relevant shall include: normal, pessimistic and 
optimistic cases.
6.
In the economic analysis, the appropriate number of alternatives shall be 
considered, and each meaningful subsystem from the operational viewpoint shall be 
evaluated on an incremental basis. During this marginal analysis, each increment of 
investment that proves to be feasible shall integrate the without-project situation 
for the following analyses.
7.
If relevant, stage construction shall be analyzed as an alternative. Computer 
models to simulate port activities shall be utilized for the evaluation of major port 
projects. Special consideration shall be given to seasonal variations of demand to 
determine appropriate transport or non-transport means of reducing its effects in port 
design.
B.
For fishing berth investments:
 
The criteria to be developed under the study referred to in Part A 5 (c) (i) (B) 
and refered to in Schedule 5, paragraph 2 (a), to the Loan Agreement, shall be 
followed.
C.
For investments for the improvement of port access facilities:
 
These investments shall be evaluated in the broader context of its consequences 
in the overall urban framework. Benefits shall include savings in vehicle operating 
costs and time of the trucks, and/or trains, accessing the port, plus similar kind of 
savings for the rest of the traffic, and other more general kind of benefits such as 
urbanistic, touristic, city traffic and safety, environmental, social and historical 
benefits. The aggregation of those benefits shall be compared with the investment 
costs to determine the feasibility of the investment.
D.
For investments supporting infrastructure at selected inland terminals:
 
1.
The provision of transport, power and/or water supply at freight inland 
terminals shall be considered as an incremental investment to the inland terminal 
concerned and their benefits shall be savings between the investment alternative(s) 
and the without project situation, i.e., using the existing transport, power, and 
water facilities.
2.
In cases acceptable to the Bank, the facilities shall be considered an integral, 
as opposed to incremental, part of the main project. In this situation, the 
feasibility of the whole investment, including the cost of providing transport, power 
and water, shall be the only requirement.
E.
For goods investments:
 
The economic analysis shall be based on comparing benefits and costs pertaining 
to the with- and without-project situations.
II.
The following analytical parameters shall be followed:
 
A.
Feasibility Indices, Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. For each investment, an 
estimate of the first year benefit/cost ratio, net present value and the internal rate 
of return shall be prepared all in accordance with methodology acceptable to the Bank. 
To test the sensitivity of the evaluation, critical variables are to be adjusted in 
Page  19
accordance with possible alternative scenarios. In the event that land user time 
savings are included as benefits, the indices shall be calculated with and without 
that value.
B.
Ship Time Saving Values.
 
1.
Liner vessel tariffs are set by the liner conference system, and consequently 
inelastic (at least in the short to medium run) to any reduction in ship waiting and 
service time in specific ports. To quantify the ship time savings for the economic 
evaluation, the daily ship cost of liner vessels shall be taken, conservatively, as 
50% of the corresponding values periodically made available by the Bank for its ship 
cost model. For charter vessel those savings shall be based on full-ship costs per 
day.
C.
Economic and Shadow Prices. For each investment two basic evaluations shall be 
carried out: economic and social. The economic evaluation shall consider all costs and 
benefits measured in market prices reduced by the corresponding taxes and duties. The 
social evaluation shall in addition consider other factors relevant to the economy, 
which translates into a set of adjustment factors periodically prepared by the 
Borrower's Ministry of Planning. The opportunity cost of capital shall be 12% in both 
cases.
D.
Period of Analysis. The period of analysis shall be consistent with the expected 
life of the proposed investment.
E.
Optimum Time. For each investment the optimum time (maximum value of NPV (net 
present value) at the opportunity cost of capital) shall be calculated.
III.
The following environmental criteria shall be followed:
 
1.
Eligible Investments shall be evaluated following the "Guidelines for 
Environmental Assessment of High-Priority Infrastructure Projects" of the Borrower's 
Ministry of Planning dated July 1991.
2.
A preliminary environmental assessment shall be prepared for each Eligible 
Investment under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
3.
As required by the Guidelines referred to in III.1 above and in cases requested 
by the Bank, a detailed environmental assessment shall be carried out in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in
such Guidelines.
IV.
The economic rate of return of Eligible Investments shall be greater than 12%.
 
