Document of
FILE COPY                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2276-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
March 29, 1978
This document as a restited d  _ributiom an my be wed by recipients only In the perfornecne of
their oflcWd dutis. Its steuts MSy no otherwise be discesed witout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             = Pesos (P) 7.40
P 1.00              = US$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                    =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                  =      0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                   =      2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                   =     50 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
AID     -  Agency for International Development
BBR     -  Bureau of Barangay Roads (DPH)
BHS     -  Barangay Health Station
BPW     -  Bureau of Public Works
DA      -  Department of Agriculture
DAR     -  Department of Agrarian Reform
DLGCD   -  Department of Local Government and Community
Development
DOH     -  Department of Health
DPH     -  Department of Public Highways
DPWTC   -  Department of Public Works, Transportion and
Communications
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations
FSDC    -  Farm Systems Development Corporation
ISA     -  Irrigation Service Association
NEDA    -  National Economic and Development Authority
NFAC    -  National Food and Agricultural Council (DA)
NIA     -  National Irrigation Administration
PDAP    -  Provincial Development Assistance Program
PPA     -  Philippine Port Authority
RHU     -  Rural Health Unit
GLOSSARY
Barangay - Village
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          US$28.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:  The proposed project consists of (a) construction of new
irrigation facilities on about 8,500 ha of currently rainfed
land and rehabilitation of two existing communal irrigation
systems serving 900 ha; (b) construction of about 1,150 km of
new barangay (village) roads and improvement of about 240 km
of existing barangay roads; (c) rehabilitation and improvement
of three ports; (d) construction of about 60 barangay health
stations; and (e) construction of about 300 wells serving
villages of 300 to 400 inhabitants. The project would
increase yields and farm incomes on about 9,400 ha dispersed
in the six provinces of Abra and Kalinga-Apayao in Northern
Luzon; Aklan, Antique and Capiz in Western Visayas; and
Bohol in Central Visayas. At full development, this would
result in additional annual paddy production of about
29,000 tons. Some 7,000 farm families and 1,500 landless
laborers' families, practically all of whom are below the
poverty line, would benefit directly from the increased
production and subsequent employment. The road component is
tentatively expected to improve access for some 78,000
families, or 430,000 people, by linking relatively isolated
villages to the mainstream of economic life of the provinces.
About 47,000 families, all of whom are estimated to be below
the poverty line, would benefit from the health facilities
to be provided under the project, while the 300 village
wells would improve the availability and quality of water
for some 100,000 villagers. The main risks concern the
maintenance of irrigation facilities, the provision of
agricultural supporting services, and the maintenance of
barangay roads. The project provides measures to minimize
these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Foreign
Local     Foreign       Total       exchange
(US$ million) ------          ()
Communal irrigation systems        4.4         4.3         8.7            49
Barangay road8                    12.4        12.0        24.4            49
Improvement of ports               1.0         0.8         1.8           44
Rural health stations              0 5         0 2         0.7            29
Barangay water supply              0.7         2.0         2.7            74
Preparation of future rural
infrastructure project           0.8         0.3         1.1           27
Engineering, administration        2.8         1.0         3.8           26
and supervision
Base cost estimate          22.6        20.6       43.2            48
Physical contingencies             3.5         2.9         6.4           45
Expected price increases           4.9         4.5         9.4           48
Total projlect cost         31.0        28.0        59.0           48
Financing Plan:       Association        Government       Total
=---------- (US$ million) --------…--
28.0              31.0           59.0
Estimated Disbursements:    Association's         Annual           Cumulative
Fiscal Year      disbursements    disbursements
------ (US$ million) --------
1979             0.2               0.2
1980            5.3                5.5
1981            8.5               14.0
1982             7.0              21.0
1983             5.0              26.0
1984             2.0              28.0
Rate of Return:  The weighted average rate of return, excluding the health
and water supply components (10% of the project cost) for
which benefits were not quantified, is approximately 17%.
Appraisal Report: No. 1884a-PH, dated March 23, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR A
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of the Philippines for an equivalent of
US$28 million for a Rural Infrastructure Project. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum SecM 77-764 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled
The Philippines:  Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined with the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly,
exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal, and the shares
of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable at still relatively
low levels. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand, agricultural
production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the previous
year, and the balance of payments registered a substantial current account
surplus. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment
boom. The resulting high investment rate, together with favorable sugar
prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil price
increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP growth
/1 This part of the report is not substantially changed from Part I of the
Rural Electrification Project (Sec M/R 78-63), which is scheduled to be
considered by the Executive Directors on April 4, 1978.



- 2 -
was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first half of the 1970s also saw
significant structural changes in the economy, the most important of which
were an increase in the level of public investment, financed in large part
by a greater tax effort, a recovery in export growth, a shift of the domestic
terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the population
growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier
declines in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external
situation dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and, as a
result, the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP, and the overall balance
of payments deficit to $500 million. Thus, the necessity of restoring balance
to the external accounts was superimposed on the Government's longer-term
objectives of faster economic growth and a better distribution of its benefits.
To maintain the momentum of growth and investment, the Government adopted a
policy of increasing capital inflows in the near term to finance the resulting
expanded current account deficits while accelerating export growth in the
longer term. In 1976-77, the economy - led by exports, public investment,
agriculture and construction - has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfor-
tunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion in export volume was offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. However, inflation, which
reached a peak of 31% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on
domestic prices, has slowed to a rate of about 7% because of the deceleration
in international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a five-year plan for the period 1978-82, call for further
acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The development
strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities
at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-
sufficiency in food and energy, strengthening of the balance of payments, and
increased development in rural areas. In addition, the plan includes strategies
for development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the Government in
recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's basic economic
report, although investment, manufacturing output, and exports are projected
to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be feasible to
accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade stabilize, but
more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and efforts need
to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        For a country with fairly good soils and a reasonably literate
rural population, agricultural yields in the Philippines are relatively low.
Possible reasons for this situation are the low quantity and quality of
irrigation facilities and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure
patterns; and weak agricultural credit, extension, and other supporting
services. Agricultural production has, nevertheless, grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year in the 1970s. The performance of the sector was
exceptionally strong in 1976 and 1977, as production increased by 7%, and the
Philippines became self-sufficient in rice, its main staple.



- 3 -
8.        The Government gives high priority to agriculture and rural
development. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability
of irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to
improve living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification,
health and family planning, and rural roads. However, while irrigation
investment has been raised substantially, improvements in the quality of
supporting services - particularly credit and extension - are still necessary.
9.        For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer, which established
their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implemen-
tation, the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's
rural development strategy.
Industry
10.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and introduced
policy changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further
efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution and
capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate of
industrial growth as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
11.       The manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average
rate of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
two years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased almost fivefold in the
four-year period 1973-76, in response to exchange rate adjustment and special
measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and thus
reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted above,
further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports are to
continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry has also grown
rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-intensive public investment
and large tourism investments in the Manila area raised construction expendi-
ture from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in 1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was



- 4 -
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
13.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined correspondingly. Due to the improvement in agriculture's
terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban
real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial
employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to the average
urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per capita consumption
increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance for price
increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live, have
probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have remained about the
same.
14.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.8% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approximately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Investment and Savings
15.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6-1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP. Although the private investment rate is well over the 14% average of
the early 1970s, the revival of private investment is an important short-term
problem. Furthermore, the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively
modest growth of manufacturing output and employment, and the structural
underutilization of capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency
of investment also needs to be improved.
16.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of



- 5 -
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned
in 1976 and again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and
to reduce tne spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs, creating a difficult policy dilemma. On the one hand,
the programs have become costly means of achieving their objectives, and the
growth of arrears reduces the overall efficiency of resource mobilization and
allocation. On the other hand, the programs do redress imbalances in the
availability of credit. The Government has already taken a number of steps
to improve collections; however, further efforts in this direction are
necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of
credit to the productive sectors.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
17.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP, and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
18.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compli-
ance and collection performance. Hlowever, much of the success in mobilizing
revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977. Greater resource mobilization by government
financial institutions and government corporations, whose investment programs
have grown rapidly, is also needed.



- 6-
_ ernal Trade and Capital Flows
19.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in 1975,
the current account recorded a deficit of $900 million, or 6% of GNP.  To meet
the immediate payments problem, the Government drew down its international
reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its
borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a
strategy was adopted of accelerating export growth both to hold the current
account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and
to meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
20.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit was stabil-
ized at 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1 billion.
Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, two-thirds of which
were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements from official
sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expansion in export
volume which, with little expected change in the terms of trade, import
volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account deficit to 4%
of GNP and eliminate the overall payments deficit. Hence, on the whole, the
balance of payments position has strengthened significantly.
21.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about 19%,
of which 7% would be public debt service, during the plan period (1978-82).
22.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of the planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
23.       By March 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 52 Bank loans /1
/1 Including the loan for the Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project for $65 million (approved on February 28, 1978) and the loan for
the Educational Radio Technical Assistance Project for $2 million (approved
on March 21, 1978).



(of which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,364.7 million, net of cancellations. About one-third of Bank Group lending
($465.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
tion, and water supply and another third ($493.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder, $278.4 million has been for iudustry and
$127.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the execution
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience in
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of local
currency and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now being imple-
mented reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 28, 1978, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
24.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. More
than 40% of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and about a quarter would be for needed
basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power.
The amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, popula-
tion and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account
for more than 15% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be
for industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid
growth in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a
significant expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine
development program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed
to meet the country's substantial future needs. In view of the per capita
income of the Philippines, its level of external debt, and the generally good
management of the economy, a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed
in the Bank Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
25.       This is the sixth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY78. Loans for industrial finance and for a multipurpose dam project
are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors within
the next few months.
26.       As of February 28, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $86.3 million for investment in 16 projects in the fields of develop-
ment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, petroleum products,
nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and edible oils.
Of these investments, $36.5 million had been sold, cancelled and repaid,
leaving a net portfolio of $49.8 million, including $5.0 million undisbursed.
27.       At present the share of the Bank Group in the Philippines' total
external debt disbursed and outstanding is about 11% and its share in debt
service is about 5%. These ratios are expected to increase to around 19% and
8% by the end of the present decade.



- 8 -
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
The Rural and Agricultural Sector
28.       Some 31 million people, or 70% of the population of the Philippines,
live in rural areas where infrastructure and social services are of poor
quality, economic activities limited, agricultural productivity low and
underemployment high. The rural population is growing at 2.7% per year, net
of an annual rate of migration to the cities of 0.5%.
29.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 30% of gross domestic product and over one-half of
total employment. Small farms provide the main income for 65% of the rural
population. Other sources of income include forestry, fishing, mining,
small-scale manufacturing and service industries. Farming is chiefly oriented
towards food grain production for domestic consumption, while coconuts and
sugar are the main export crops. Recent trends in the agriculture sector are
described in paras. 7-9 of this report.
Rural Infrastructure
30.       Except for some of the more developed lowland areas in Central
Luzon, rural infrastructure is inadequate. Development to date has been, to
an important degree, concentrated in areas suited for large-scale projects,
particularly in lowland areas where arable land, irrigation water, and
markets are readily available and rapid production increases could be
achieved more easily. The Government is, however, giving increasing priority
to economically isolated and depressed rural areas. Programs include
small-scale communal irrigation systems, barangay roads, rural electrifica-
tion, supervised credit for small farmers, and improved provision of social
services.
31.       Communal Irrigation Systems.  About 0.9 million ha are irrigated
in the Philippines. Half of the irrigated area is served by national irriga-
tion systems, most larger than 1,000 ha, under the jurisdiction of the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA). The remaining area consists of
about 1,350 communal irrigation systems, which vary in size from a few hectares
to a few hundred hectares and are owned by 176,400 farmers grouped into about
2,000 Irrigation Associations. Communal systems are mostly run-of-the-river
type projects where pumps or temporary weirs supply water from rivers which
usually have small catchments and limited dry season flows. Structures are
simple, sometimes primitive, and frequently damaged by floods. Communal
irrigation projects are developed as self-help schemes in which farmers donate
labor for construction and maintenance. Maintenance is seldom carried out
because of shortage of funds, poor organization, and lack of equipment. Average
yields for these systems probably do not exceed 2 ton/ha, compared with 2.6 ton/ha
on the national systems. Under the NIA's ten-year irrigation development program,
communal projects represent about 14% of the target area. The Farms Systems
Development Corporation (FSDC), a Government-owned corporation, has been in
charge of implementing communal pump irrigation systems and organizing farmers
into Irrigation Service Associations (ISAs). Development of communal irrigation
projects has been slow due to lack of funds, the relatively small size of



projects and inability of farmers to form ISAs. The project is designed to
assist the Government in developing a more effective program for small-scale
irrigation in six provinces which would provide the basis for replicating this
program throughout the Philippines.
32.       Barangay Roads.  Road transportation accounts for nearly 40% of
freight movement and over 80% of passenger traffic in the Philippines. The
road network is composed of some 100,000 km of highways and other roads. Only
38% of national roads and 13% of provincial roads are paved. Less than half of
the villages in rural areas have direct access to roads, and movement of farm
produce is initially by headloads, animal-drawn sleds and wheeled carts. During
the period 1971-75, the Department of Public Highways (DPH) constructed or
improved about 4,000 km of feeder roads at a total cost of about P 53 million.
In May 1974, Presidential Decree No. 701 established the Bureau of Barangay
Roads (BBR) in DPH to accelerate the systematic construction and maintenance
of roads serving rural areas. While a significant beginning has been made, BBR
will have to strengthen its capacity considerably if it is to construct and
maintain a rapidly growing network of rural roads in the years ahead.
33.       Ports.  Water transportation is essential for the island communi-
ties of the Philippines. The naturally sheltered harbors have led to the
proliferation of ports which have been classified into 80 national ports and
some 400 municipal ports. In many cases, operations in these ports have been
inefficient because of poor planning, maintenance and management. With the
recent establishment of the Philippine Port Authority (PPA), however, the
situation is improving. Responsibility for operating, maintaining and managing
national ports has been transferred from the Customs Bureau to PPA which has
also assumed the initial responsibility for planning ports development nation-
ally. An analysis of commodity movements reveals that a substantial part of
the trade generally uses a combination of land and water transportation. For
this reason, efficient transportation in remote islands requires the integra-
tion of barangay roads, district roads and nearby ports into a mutually
supporting system.
34.       Rural Health Services.  The Government's health care delivery system,
run by the Department of Health (DOH), is responsible for basic health services
as well as family planning services and nutrition. There are some 1,500 Rural
Health Units (RHU) under the control of DOH. Inadequate staff training and
lack of equipment and delays are common reasons for the inability of the RHUs
to provide sound services to patients. Moreover, even this relatively large
number of facilities can provide health care and family planning services to
only about a third of the rural population.
35.       Under the first Bank-assisted Population Project (Loan 1035-PH),
which provides for the construction of 200 Rural Health Units, the Government's
health care delivery system is being restructured through retraining of all
rural health services staff and employment of about 2,400 new midwives to
provide comprehensive health and family planning services to rural areas. At
present, each midwife serves at a rural health unit and must cover a population
of over 5,000, scattered among three or four villages. In order to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of the program, the Government is developing a
program to extend integrated national nutrition, family planning and health



- 10 -
.rvices to the village level.  The major responsibility fo.r carrying out this
program would fall upon a barangay health worker, directly supervised by the
rural health midwife, trained under the First Population Project. The focal
point for this program would be the Barangay -.ea Lh Station (BHS), a small,
simple health outpost at the village level to house records, supplies and
morning clinic sessions.
36.       Village Water Supply.  Less than half of the 31 million people
living in rural areas have safe domestic water, generally supplied from
either springs or wells. Poor design, low standards of construction and lack
of maintenance have reduced the efficiency of these systems and many have
been abandoned. Construction is subsidized by the national government, but
the recipient community donates labor for construction and takes care of
operation and maintenance. Rural wells are normally designed to serve
250-300 persons. They are fitted with hand pumps, have no distribution
systems and cost about P 100-300 per capita (compared with P 750 for urban
systems). In the last four years, about 2,000 wells and springs, serving
almost a million people, have been constructed, but accomplishments have
fallen short of expectations because of lack of equipment, budget and staff.
The Government aims, during the next 10 years, to rehabilitate or
construct new water supply systems for about 80% of the rural population
who are inadequately served at present.
Experience with Past Lending
37.       The proposed project would be the first Rural Infrastructure
Project and follows two other Bank Group-assisted rural development projects
(Mindoro: Loan 1020-PH and Land Settlement: Loan 1421-PH). The Mindoro
Project is somewhat similar to the proposed project with components of
communal irrigation, provincial roads and upgrading of a port. The progress
was slow in the early stages due to inadequate budgeting by the various
agencies which led to funding constraints. The Government has made institu-
tional adjustments to improve budgetary planning, and adequate funds have been
provided during the current fiscal year, so all works are expected to be
implemented rapidly. The loan for the land settlement project became effec-
tive on October 27, 1977, so the project is in its early stages of implemen-
tation. Budgeting constraints have caused initial delays; however, the
Government is taking several steps to resolve these problems and implementa-
tion is expected to improve during 1978. The past lending of nine loans for
irrigation and three loans for highways dealt with national irrigation systems
and national highways which have little similarity with the components of
the proposed project. This would be the first Bank Group credit entirely
directed to assisting government agencies in expanding small-scale infra-
structure programs in rural areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was prepared by various government agencies
under the coordination of the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA) of the Government of the Philippines, with the assistance of the FAO/
World Bank Cooperative Program. It is supportive of the Government's



- 11 -
development strategy for the rural sector and meets the objectives of improving
real incomes in the less developed provinces, assisting the national program
for food grain self-sufficiency, and developing the capacity of government
agencies to carry out effective rural infrastructure programs. The proposed
project was appraised in October-November 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington, March 6-10, 1978; the Philippine delegation was led by the Honorable
Alfredo L. Juinio, Secretary of Public Works, Transportation, and Communications.
A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Philippines - Rural Infrastructure Project"
(No. 1884a-PH dated March 23, 1978), is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are provided in Annex III.
39.       The principal features of the project are summarized below:
(a) construction of new irrigation facilities on about 8,500 ha of
currently rainfed land, and rehabilitation of two existing communal
irrigation systems serving 900 ha;
(b) construction of about 1,150 km of new barangay roads and improve-
ment of about 240 km of existing barangay roads;
(c) rehabilitation and improvement of three ports;
(d) construction of about 60 barangay health stations; and
(e) construction of about 300 wells serving villages of 300 to 400
inhabitants.
The Project Area
40.       The project covers six provinces:  Abra (Region 1) and Kalinga-
Apayao (Region 2) in Northern Luzon; Aklan, Antique and Capiz (Region 6)
in the Western Visayas; and Bohol (Region 7) in the Central Visayas. The
selection of these provinces took into account their present low level of per
capita rural income and inadequacy of basic infrastructure facilities. These
provinces lag behind other provinces in terms of economic development.
The six provinces, with a total population of 2.1 million, are predominantly
rural with only 15% of the population living in the urban areas, compared to
the Philippines' average of 32%.
41.       There are 166,000 farms in the six provinces, occupying about
426,000 ha. The average size of farm varies from 1.7 ha in Abra to 3.5 ha
in Capiz. Per capita incomes derived from farming in the areas to be served
by the project generally range from $35 to $80, compared to the absolute
poverty level income for rural areas in the Philippines in 1978 of $193 per
capita. Only 12% of the arable land is irrigated during wet season in the six
provinces. The existing irrigation systems, serving about 52,000 ha, consist
of about 13,000 ha of national systems, 34,000 ha of communal irrigation
systems and 5,000 ha of privately operated systems, which have seriously
deteriorated due to poor initial design, inadequate diversion and conveyance
facilities and neglect of maintenance. In addition, most of the systems lack
access roads, which has made movement of inputs and produce difficult. These
factors contribute to the low average paddy yields of about 2.0 ton/ha for the
irrigated wet-season crop, compared to 1.5 ton/ha for the rainfed areas.



- 12 -
42.       There are about 8,700 km of roads in the six provinces classified
as national, provincial, municipal and barangay roads. Only 20% of the
barangay roads are considered to be in good condition. Due to poor surfacing
and inadequate cross drainage structures, many segments of these roads are
impassable during the wet season. There are many villages and potential
agricultural areas in each province which have no access to roads within a
5-10 km radius. As agriculture is the mainstay of the project provinces,
improvement in the road network is essential for rural development.
43.       There are 31 ports in four of the six project provinces. Many of
the existing minor ports in the project provinces operate inefficiently
because of initial poor planning, lack of maintenance and inefficient
management. Most facilities require basic rehabilitation and improvements.
The ports identified for improvement are of major importance to the rural
population, whose livelihood depends on being able to trade with other regions
of the country.
44.       Rural Health Units (RHUs) are being improved and built throughout
the Philippines under a Bank-assisted Population Project (Loan 1035-PH) to
serve municipalities with populations of 5,000 to 50,000. Barangay Health
Stations (BHSs) serve villages with populations of less than 5,000, and are
manned by a midwife and supported by the nearby RHU. Under the proposed
project, 60 barangay health stations would be built, which would complement
the rural health units built or improved under the population project.
45.       An ongoing barangay water program is administered under the Pro-
vincial Development Assistance Program (PDAP). This program, developed
jointly by the Department of Local Government and Community Development
(DLGCD) and the US Agency for International Development (AID), includes 28
provinces. The program at present is limited to serve villages of 300 to
5,000 inhabitants, but will eventually cover villages and towns of up to
30,000 people. In order to complement this program, and to provide water
supply to rural areas not covered by this program, the water supply component
would provide facilities to serve mostly villages of less than 300 inhabitants
and a few with up to 400 inhabitants.
Detailed Features of Project Components
46.       Communal Irrigation Systems.  This component would consist of
about 55 systems ranging in size from 50 to 1,100 ha and covering 9,400 ha
in the six provinces. The selection is based on preliminary project planning
studies, design, cost estimates and evaluation of 10 representative systems,
accounting for about 2,400 ha, or 25% of total area.  The evaluation of the
remaining 45 systems would be based on the basic criteria of a minimum
cropping intensity of 130%, farm size of 1.0 to 1.5 ha or less for at least
70% farms, and a minimum economic rate of return of 10%. It has been agreed
that NIA would submit an evaluation report for review by the Association
prior to implementation for the systems costing more than P 3.0 million
and summary data forms for the remaining irrigation works for review by the
Association (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Two systems in Bohol would include small impounding reservoirs.
The other systems would be gravity run-of-the-river type projects. The



- 13 -
proposed level of on-farm distribution would be similar to that being
implemented in other Bank Group-assisted projects. Gravel-surfaced O&M
roads would be built along all main canals. Access roads to and within
the systems would be built under the barangay road component of the project.
For systems with dams to be built under the project, the Government would
make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for their periodic inspec-
tion to ensure their safety (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
48.       Barangay Roads.  This component of the project would consist of
about 155 stretches of roads for a total length of about 1,400 km in the six
provinces of the project. The preliminary alignment of each stretch was
surveyed in the field and detailed cross sections were prepared for one
project road in each of the three areas representative of the type of
terrain to determine earthwork quantities and cost estimates. For economic
evaluation, 11 road stretches were used which account for about 170 km or
12% of total length. The evaluation of the remaining 144 segments would be
based on the basic criteria of a minimum of two villages and/or a population
of 100 inhabitants per km to be served, and a minimum economic rate of return
of 10%. DPH would submit a detailed evaluation report for review by the
Association prior to implementation for the road stretches costing more than
P 4.0 million and summary data forms for the remaining road stretches for
review by the Association (Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
49.       Improvement of Ports.  Three ports located in three project
provinces would be rehabilitated and improved under the project. These are
national ports at San Jose de Buena Vista in Antique Province, Culasi in
Capiz and the municipal port of Dumaguit in Aklan. The improvement works would
include extension or realignment of breakwaters, installation of navigational
aids, reclaiming and surfacing for storage area and provision of independent
water supply.
50.       Barangay Health Stations.  About 60 rural health stations located
in villages approximately 5-10 km from a rural health unit would be constructed
under the project. The facilities at the stations would include a waiting
porch, receiving area, treatment and examination rooms, and an independent
water supply system. Since some of the stations in the provinces of Abra and
Kalinga-Apayao have no access roads, these roads would be provided under the
barangay road component.
51.       Rural Water Supply.  The 300 wells to be constructed in small villages
would be equipped with hand pumps, but would not be provided with a storage or
distribution system. Easy access to the well would be ensured and a concrete
basin facility for washing clothes would be provided at each site.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       Total project costs are estimated at $59 million, of which $28 mil-
lion, or 48%, is foreign exchange. A physical contingency factor of 20% has
been applied to the base cost estimates for civil works, communal irrigation
systems and barangay roads; a factor of 10% was used for other components.



- 14 -
Costs due to expected price increases over the implementation period are about
19% of base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming the following annual
inflation rates: civil works and services 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% in
1980-82; equipment and vehicles 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 5% in 1980-82.
The proposed IDA credit of $28 million would finance the full foreign exchange
cost of the project. Local costs, representing the estimated balance of
project costs, would be met through annual government budgetary allocations to
the various agencies. Budget funds required for the project are included in
the 1978 budget, and future budgetary requirements for each component were
discussed in detail during negotiations with line agency and Budget
Commission staff. Detailed cost estimates are given in the Credit and
Project Summary.
Procurement
53.       Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials, costing about
US$5.2 million, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. For purposes of bid comparison,
local manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods, or the custom duties, whichever is lower. Off-the-shelf
items costing less than $10,000 each would be procured through existing
Government procedures, which are acceptable to the Association, because any
advantage of international competitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by
the administrative costs involved. The total cost of such items for all
components of the project would not exceed $300,000 (para. B.2 of Schedule
3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). Civil works on the project
service area ($38 million) would be scattered over about 500 separate locations
in six different provinces, executed by six different agencies and would
therefore not be suitable for international competitive bidding. Most of the
larger communal irrigation systems, barangay roads, ports and health stations
would be done by contract. The remaining works such as small communal irriga-
tion systems (less than 100 ha) and barangay roads less than 5 km length in
inaccessible areas and water supply wells, which would amount to about 30% of
total project works, would be carried out by force account. The Government
has agreed to limit civil works done by force account to 40% of the total
cost of the works. The balance of civil works would be carried out on the
basis of competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures which are
acceptable to the Association (para. B.1 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Foreign firms would be eligible to participate.
Disbursements
54.       The credit would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of directly imported equipment and materials, and 100% of ex-factory price of
locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment procured
locally. For consulting services, technical assistance and training, disburse-
ments would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for civil works
would be 40% of certified monthly progress payments or expenditures. For
civil works, contractor's mobilization and equipment, disbursements would be
at 100% of foreign exchange cost. Disbursements for force account work
would be made against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted to the Association for review, but would be



- 15 -
retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by the Association
supervision missions. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December
31, 1983, one year after the scheduled completion of all project works. The
disbursement schedule is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Organization and Management
55.       The project would be implemented by a number of national line
departments and agencies, coordinated by a Central Project Office (CPO)
under the Cabinet Coordinating Committee on Rural Development (CCC). The
CPO, which has already been established, would be directed by a qualified
and experienced Project Director who has been appointed by the Government
after consultation with the Association. It has been agreed that the Govern-
ment will consult with the Association prior to making any new appointments to
the position of Project Director (Section 3.05 (a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Project Director would approve detailed budgets, work
programs and project activities prepared by the participating agencies, and
would see that reporting requirements of the Association are met, including
continuous monitoring of the agricultural development associated with selected
roads and communal irrigation systems in each of the project provinces. The
Project Director would be assisted by a Steering Committee, which has already
been established, chaired by an Assistant Secretary of the Department of
Public Works, Transportation and Communications (DPWTC), and composed of
senior officers from each of the departments and agencies involved in the
project and a representative of the Budget Commission. The Project Director
would maintain contact with the individual components of the project through
Project Officers appointed by the implementing line agencies.
56.       Communal Irrigation Systems.  The National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) would be responsible for the selection, evaluation and construction of
the systems in close coordination with the Farm Systems Development Corpora-
tion (FSDC), which would organize farmers in the subproject areas in Irrigation
Service Associations, and subsequently assist them in operating and maintain-
ing the systems and improving farm management practices. It has been agreed
that FSDC would complete the recruitment and training of about 45 institu-
tional officers (with a minimum of two years college education) according to
an agreed schedule by June 30, 1980 (Section 3.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). It was also agreed that the Government would include the
communal irrigation component of the project within the scope of the plan of
action for provision of agricultural supporting services to Bank Group-
assisted projects being prepared under the Second National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1526-PH) (Section 3.12 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
57.       Barangay Roads.  The Bureau of Barangay Roads (BBR), within the
Department of Public Highways (DPH), would implement this component. DPH
has appointed the Assistant Director of BBR as the Project Manager, based in
Manila, to be directly responsible for execution. An engineer, experienced
in rural roads planning, design, construction and maintenance, would be
employed before December 31, 1978 for a period of two years to assist the
Director of BBR in project implementation. To augment the design staff of BBR



- 16 -
at its headquarters and in the regions, consultants would be employed by DPH
to assist in the preparation of detailed design and contract documents. It
has been agreed that DPH would employ the rural roads engineer and consultants
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 3.02(a) and (b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
58.       DPH's field activities are administered through regional offices
headed by Regional Directors and each region in turn has district offices
which are administered by highway district engineers. A new Barangay Roads
Section, headed by a Project Engineer, would be established in each project
district to assume responsibility for the project's field activities. The
total number of field staff required to implement this component of the
project would be about 40 at the regional level and 300 at the district
level, composed of engineers and technicians. Senior positions would be
filled largely by transfers from headquarters. Graduate engineers would be
recruited to junior engineering positions. About 200 technician positions,
requiring a minimum of two years of college education or a degree from a
technical high school, would be filled by transfer of existing staff at
headquarters and new recruitment. There is no shortage of engineering and
technical graduates in the Philippines. It has been agreed that DPH would
appoint experienced engineers of district engineer level to the posts of
Project Engineers before September 30, 1978 and assign the additional
personnel required for project implementation at headquarters, regional and
district offices according to an agreed schedule, by December 31, 1979
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       Certain aspects of these roads are well suited for labor-based
construction and maintenance methods. To help develop the institutional
capacity within DPH to carry out a large part of the Government's future plans
for rural roads with labor-based methods, it has been agreed that DPH would
employ a rural roads engineer to help prepare a plan of action for labor-based
construction methods by June 30, 1979. After review of the plan by the
Association, DPH would proceed with its implementation by December 31, 1979
(Section 3.08 (iii) and 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The plan would identify about 50 km of project roads as a pilot project to be
implemented during the last two years of project implementation.
60.       BBR, through the regional and district offices, has the responsi-
bility of maintaining barangay roads. The district engineer's office would
consequently have responsibility for maintaining these roads. The annual
maintenance fund provided for barangay roads at present amounts to about
P 2,500 per km, which is inadequate for the task. It has been agreed that
within five years of completion of construction of project roads, the annual
maintenance funds for all barangay roads within the six project provinces
would be raised gradually to the equivalent of P 6,000 per km. This would
allow for annual maintenance at the rate of P 4,000 per km and periodic
maintenance of P 10,000 per km at five-year intervals. It has been inform-
ally agreed that this target amount would be based on mid-1978 peso values.
Also, agreement was reached that the Government would consult annually with
the Association on the adequacy of the amount (Section 4.02 [b][ii] of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). A set of barangay road maintenance
equipment would be provided under the project for each of the eight districts



- 17 -
in the six project provinces. This equipment would be used not only for the
project roads, but also for maintenance of the other barangay roads in the
district. It was agreed that DPH would ensure that the equipment supplied
under the project would remain under the operational control of district
engineers and would be used exclusively for maintenance of barangay roads in
these districts (Section 4.02 (b) (iii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
61.       Ports.  The Bureau of Public Works (BPW) of DPWTC would be respon-
sible for the design and construction of ports. BPW would establish a
field office at each of the three ports. The Philippine Port Authority
(PPA) would continue to operate the ports after construction. It has been
agreed that: (i) the Government would provide adequate funds annually to PPA
for maintaining these ports; and (ii) PPA would prepare a plan of action, by
June 30, 1979, outlining the procedures and fees to be levied for the use of
the port facilities, which would adequately cover the costs of operating and
maintaining each port as well as recovering part of the cost of the improve-
ments. After review of the plan by the Association, the Government would
proceed with its implementation by December 31, 1979 (Section 4.02 (b) (iv)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       Rural Health Stations.  The Project Management Staff (PMS) of the
Department of Health (DOH), established for the Bank-assisted Population
Project (Loan 1035-PH), would be responsible for contract administration,
construction, procurement of supplies and materials, training and hiring of
midwives and the operation of 60 barangay health stations to be built under
the project. The district offices of BPW in the six provinces would supervise
the construction of the stations. The Department of Local Government and
Community Development (DLGCD) is currently providing coordination and
monitoring services and the maintenance of Rural Health Units built under
the Population Project. Similar arrangements would be continued for the
proposed project.
63.       Rural Water Supply.  BPW would be responsible for the construction
of wells. New drilling teams would be assigned to work under the district
engineer of BPW in each province. After construction, the Barangay councils
would be responsible for maintenance of these wells. It has been agreed
that BPW would strengthen its staff in the field offices in the project
areas as well as at headquarters, and complete the recruitment and training
of personnel for the water supply component before June 30, 1979 (Section 3.09
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery - Irrigation Component
64.       The NIA would undertake the construction of the irrigation works
and charge the cost to the Irrigation Service Association (ISA) of each
system. NIA's present (December 31, 1977) terms of repayment for communal
systems treat 10% of the capital cost as a grant, 70% as an interest free
loan and 20% as a loan with an annual interest of 6%. The loan is repayable
in 25 years, including a 4-1/2 year grace period. Using an average estimated
cost of construction and discounting the project charges, costs, and benefits
at a rate of 10% per annum, the cost recovery index (ratio of incremental



- 18 -
.X1L f-rom project charges to incremental public sector -utLays), and
rent recovery index (ratio of incremental project charges paid by a typical
farm family to incremental project rent) for the project are 25% and 41%,
-pee;^iy.   hiLis rent recovery index of 41% as '.gher than the other
Bank-assisted irrigation projects in the Philippines though the overall cost
-_cove.ry index of 25% is comparable to the other Bank irrigation projects.
The higher rent recovery index is due to the modest increases in yields
expected to result from the project. To ensure an equitable contribution
towards recovery of project cost by beneficiaries, all of whom presently
eaia incomes below IDA's estimated absolute poverty level of $193, it has
been agreed that the beneficiaries of the communal irrigation systems
juld t=L.LiIlue Lci contribute to the capital cost of the facilities at
existing levels of repayment, and that NIA would consult annually with the
on -ne adequacy of such levels (Section 4.02 (b) (i) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental Effects
65.       In all six provinces of the project, malaria is effectively con-
trolled by the Government program of house spraying with residual insecti-
cides. Schistosomiasis is found only in a very small area in the northeastern
corner of Bohol Island, well removed from the proposed irrigation systems.
The principal health problems in the six provinces are protein deficiencies in
small children, tuberculosis and enteric diseases. The project would have a
beneficial effect in the remote areas of the provinces through the provision
of roads, health stations and potable water supply.
Proj2ct Benefits and Justification
66.       The project forms part of the Government's effort to upgrade the
quality of rural life and to increase the production opportunities in some of
the poorest areas of the Philippines. While the project involves relatively
heavy expenditures in the six project provinces, these provinces have been
neglected in the past and large investments are necessary to provide the
basic infrastructure necessary for their future development. The experience
gained in implementing this project is expected to provide the necessary
basis for developing similar rural infrastructure programs in other poor
rural areas of the Philippines. The weighted average rate of return for the
project, excluding the health and water supply components (10% of the project
cost), for which benefits were not quantified, is approximately 17%.
67.       Communal Irrigation Systems.  Approximately 7,000 farm families and
1,500 landless laborers' families would benefit directly from increased
prodi >ion and consequent employment. The project would create a demand for
an cA itional 390,000 man-days of farm labor per year equivalent to some
1,600 full-time jobs. At full agricultural development this component would
result in an additional yearly paddy production of about 29,000 tons and an
import saving of $5.6 million at the forecast world market prices. Based
on the assumptions of a three- to four-year construction period and full
development being attained in five years, the overall economic rate of
return of the irrigation component is 21%.



- 19 -
68.       Barangay Roads.  The estimated 155 road segments which would total
1,386 km are rentatively expected to improve access for some 78,000 families
or 430,000 people, at an average cost of $365 per family. These low-standard
access roads would link relatively isolated villages to the mainstream of
economic life of the provinces. Presently, these villages are accessible
only by dirt tracks, and sometimes only in the dry season. The lack of
accessibility is a serious constraint to increasing the production and
incomes of the rural poor. The economic rates of return for the various
test roads range from about 10% in Abra and Kalinga-Apayao to 24% in Bohol.
The relatively low rate of return for the test road in Abra and Kalinga-Apayao
is likely to be typical for most of the roads there, due to the small area
of influence per km and the higher costs of construction per km due to the
mountainous terrain. If this investment in village roads were not undertaken
in Abra and Kalinga-Apayao, there is little that could be done to help these
farmers who are some of the poorest in the country.
69.       Ports.  The project ports are important to the poor rural population
who depend on shipping for their linkages with other regions and for marketing
of their products. Due to the ports' deteriorated condition, goods are being
transported an average of 150 km to ocher ports by inefficient roads. Most of
these ports handle the present traffic with difficulty and will not be able to
handle increases in traffic unless facilities are rehabilitated. The economic
evaluation of these ports has been done by estimating the incremental volume
of traffic which would use the rehabilitated port instead of using the road to
the next nearest port. It has been assumed that the cost incurred at the two
ports is the same and therefore the saving is only the cost of transport by
road. The economic rate of return ranges from 15% for San Jose port to 30%
for Culasi port.
70.       Barangay Health Stations.  The barangay health stations would provide
physical facilities and medical supplies to deliver first level health care,
family planning services, and nutrition advice to families in the rural
areas. The majority of these families cannot pay for such services and
presently have to travel considerable distances to the nearest town to obtain
them. The services provided by these sEations would be aimed at infants,
children, pregnant women, and lacrating mothers in an effort to reduce
maternal and child mortality and morbidity and increase the use of family
planning services. The main beneficiaries of this component would be the
poorer families of the rural population, estimated at 47,000, and the estimated
cost would be about $19 per family served.
71.       Rural Water Supply.  The project would provide about 300 village
wells and thereby improve considerably the availability and quality of water
for about 100,000 villagers. The benefits from a safe and reliable water
supply would arise primarily from a reduction in waterborne diseases and the
elimination of a considerable amount of unproductive time and effort devoted
to hauling water over long distances. These benefits have not been quantified
but are judged to justify the small per capita investment of abour $15.



- 20 -
Risks
72.       To allow for the wide geographic spread of the project and the fact
that the staff and resources of the various agencies at headquarters and in
the regional offices would have to be mobilized and deployed, a five-year
implementation period has been adopted. The element of risk for the irriga-
tion component concerns: (a) the capacity of Irrigation Service Associations
to take over the responsibility of maintaining these systems to ensure the
efficient use of irrigation water; and (b) the provision of the entire
package of agriculture supporting services to small systems dispersed in all
corners of the six provinces. The first risk has been minimized by ensuring
that FSDC would supervise the maintenance of these systems and monitor the
performance of these associations for five years after completion of con-
struction. The second risk has been minimized by including the communal
irrigation component of the project within the scope of the plan of action
for provision of agricultural supporting services to Bank Group-assisted
projects being prepared under the Second National Irrigation Systems Improve-
ment Project (Loan 1526-PH) (Section 3.12 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The element of risk for the barangay roads concerns maintenance,
which would be minimized by an assurance that the Government would guarantee
sufficient funds for the annual and periodic maintenance of these roads
(Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of the
Philippines and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III of
this Report.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 29, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
PHILIPPINES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
_______________                     .             PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND       rLRKEY          KOREA SOUTH **
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     140.0*    230.0*   410.0*/a              210.0 *    500.0*        280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            27.4       36.9      43.3/a              36.3         35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        91.0      123.0     144.0/a              71.0        46.0       327.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO        328.0     375.0      395.0/a             263.0        65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          45.1       44.2      43.8                44.3        40.6        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           17.9       13.2       10.5               13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        8          8          7                   80.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         3.5       5.3        9.3                  .         54.4        652.
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5/a      3.3        3.3                3.2         2.6/b,c    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0        3.0       2.8                 3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                  4.0        4.0       3.9                 4.9         4-9/d       6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           25.3       27.6      29.8                15.0        38.7        41.2
AGE STRUCTJRE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        45.7      45.6       43.2                45.1        41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                        51.6      51.6       54.0                51.8        54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.7        2.8       2.8                 3.1         4.3         3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.9        0.9                0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RArIO                1.3/b      1.5       1.3/b               1.1         1.1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..     320.0   4065.0/a               470.0          ..      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        2.0      25.0/a              10.0         8.2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         10100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a             16700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          61.0/C    ss.o/a   52.67-a               79.0        67.0        50.4/a
IINFMP!CV'n (% ne LABOP  OE!RCS          e.?        7.5        4.0                  ,         4.0/1       4, 
,NCOrII  D.'R.BUTi uN
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             28.8         ..                          22.0        32.8/h      17.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             56.2      5;-0       53.3                51.1        60.6 /6    44.5
LOwEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.2                                      5.6         2.9         7. 71
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             11.9      11.7       14.7                14.3         9.4 /h    17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND CWNZ,-.
-___..-___________________-___
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..       43.0/c               ..        53.0        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         2.0/c               ..        0.9         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  .,         ..   1160-01d             7970.0      2250.0      2110 0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..         ..    4 0  lt             6650.0      1770.0 /i  2170:0L/
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           1180.0     850.0      880.0               890.0       500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          83.0      93.0    105.7                 103.0       110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0       45.0       55.6                52.0        78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          i9.0/d    22.0         ..                17.0 /a    22.0         19.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES t14              9,0/e      6.6       7.5                   ,        14.7 /k
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       95.0      113.0    117.0                  81.0       109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      26.0      49.0       49.0                16.0        28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0                12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     14.0/f      6.0/b      9.0                14.0 /b     14.0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..         ..      87.0                79.0        55.0 /1    87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..        ..                  ..         1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      80.0       76.0         .-                  ,.        64.0        80.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  17.0      23.0       31.0                  ..       41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      *-       7.0       10.0                  .         18.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          22.0      72.0          ..               78.0        89.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        8.0       8.0                 5.0         4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           100.0     235.0      291.0               124.0       247.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                1.3        2.0       1.5                 1.0         0.7         3.5
SEE----------NOTES-------------AND---------DEFIN-------------TIONS-----__----__ON-------REVERSE--------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
cliest otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sey year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estinate batwee.
1973 sod 1975.
NCP per capita data are based on the World BEnk Atlas -ethodology (1974-76 basis).
50 Korea hb. heen selected as an objective country en the basis of its similar population, location -sd income level and, like the Philippiean, it
is expected to grow rapidly in the coming years.
PHILIPPINES       1960    /a  1950-55        /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  As percentage of empleyseent;
/d  1960-62;    /e  1962;    /f  Not ineladinsg vocational short-term course.
1970    te  AS perce-ntge of amploytoent;    /b  Not Including private vocational schools or vocational short-tern coarsee.
MOSTr FECENT EST7MATE:    /s  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over tr  tstal lahbr force;    /c  1971;
td Registerad only; blieved to be over-estimate of otasber aetuaily practicing.
TH41LAND          1970    ta  1964-66;    /b  Public schools, which includa tachnical edoe-tion at the peat-secondary level.
TURKEY            1970    is  1967;    /b  Exclodes 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /c  Ratio of popolatioc under 15 and 65
and ever to labor force 15 Yesra and over;    /f  15 years and over, e-eludes unemployed;    /t  Registered only;
/h  Dispos-ble itcone;    /i  Including assistant norses and midwives;    Li  1964-66;    Lk  1967-68;    /I  Per....
sic yeers and ever who tell the census takers that thay can read and write.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    is  A. percentage of employtent;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the coantry;    /c  Water piped inside.
R10, November 17, 1977
DINrlITIOIS OF SOCIAL INlSICATOgS
L-nd Areu (thou Os2)                                                                         Posuistion per -ursing earos  - Population divided by -enber of pra-ciciog
Total - Total sorface area conprai,fg land ares ed ilan,d waters,                              s    ad  nla graduate nurs, 'trained" or "certifted" Aseses, sod
Agric. - Mast recent estimate of agricultural area wed tanporerily or pans-                   auxiliary personnel with training or esperfece.
neotly for crops, pastoree, rarket & kitchen garden  or to lie fallmc.                     Populetion sar hosni rI bed - Population divided by maber of bespital beds
esilable  in public and peivats geanral end  pacialised bospi-l and
GNP per capita  (US$) - GNP per capita e-timates at current market prices,                     rebelblitation casters; ecludas nursing homes snd establiabsenca for
caleslated by same conversies method  5 WUorld Bask Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   cstodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 da.-                                                                  Pee easita  ueslv of Calories (I of r esirents  - C-sputad frtms snargy
Sqivesnt of net food aupplies avsilabls in country par capita per day;
Population and vital statitc!                                                                  availeble supplies canprise dosastic prodoction, Imparts less anporta, and
Poeslation (mid-year    lion    A  of July first:  if not avilable,   erage                    chnges in stock; net supplies exclude anil feed, seeds, quantities aced
of two cod-year e-tinates; 1:60, 1970 end 1975 dat.                                          in food processing and lasses in dietribstion; reqoiranents    e re estimated
by FAO bes.d On physiological ne.de for norl activity and health consid-
Population deosity - per  qusace kI   - Mid-ye.r population par aquare kiloster                erimg ewiro ntal terature, body nights, Age and sme  distributions of
(100 hectares) of total sea                                                                 populteion, nd lloning 101 for wste at household levl.
T-oDulation depitf  - per *n q   ek  of sarics Ind - Compated as shoes for                  Per csitesanely of oreten fare ear day) - Protein contant of par capita
airiculiaral land only.                                                                      pt supply of food par day; met Supply of food is defiDad as sbove; req.ire-
_nts f-r a11 conntres eactbliahed by USDA ECononie Research S-rvices
Vital statistics                                                                               provide for a minhise  allowance of 60 gras of total protein pee day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand, aversee - A-ua live births par thovand of                       20 gras of animl and pulse protein, of which 10 gr,es ehold be animal
mid-year pepsltlato; ten-yeur srith-etic  verages ending in 1960 ad 1970,                    protein; th.ss  standards are loser tbhn thna of 75 grs of total protein
and fiv--year averoic ending in 1975 for mast recent satirte.                                and 23 gr n  of eni.al protein as n aerage for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death race per thaus..d, aver-ga - asa-l deaths per theusnd of mid-year                  in the Third World Pond Survey.
population; tee-year eritfhstic averages ending in 1960 ed 1970 and five-                  Per ca.ita prstein eunel  fran sifl aed spls  - Protein supply of food
year *var-g  eoding in 1975 for nest recent es timate,                                       derived fre  anils snd pulesa in gras par day.
Infant mortality rate (/theu) - Annual deaths of infants onder one year of eg                Death rate (/thee) a.es 1-4 - Annual deathe par thusand in age group 1-4
per thoasand live birthe.                                                                    yers, to children in this age group; enggeared Se an indicator of
.if e ebirctaoc  at htrth (yr.) - Aversge I   aber of year of life renaing at                  malnutritio.
birth; usually five-year -verages soding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develep-
ing countrie.                                                                              Education
Cross re,rrd-rtioc rote - svcrugc nuer of live daughtere a woan  ill bear                    Adjusted enrollment ratio -  riM   re school - EnrolL_ent of a11  gsa  as par-
in her norcal reproductive period if she enperiences preesot  ge.-spcific                    centage of primary achol-ege population  includes children aged 6-11 year
f.rtility  rstee;  -ually five-year  verages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countris, ith
far developiog tocetris                                                                      -niversal education, enrollment my emmad 100I   since *s, pupils are below
Pocolatlon oroeth rate (2)  - total - CanPoand  annual groeth rates of mid-year                or sobe the official achnol ege.
population far 1950-60,  1960-70 and 1970-75,                                              Adjusted erollesnt ratio - secondary achool - Conpsted as above; econdary
PoosIetfon gro'th rata (1) -  rbhan - Conputed like growth rate of total                       edneation re ruires at least far yeers of approved primry instruction;
PoPulatioan  diffeccot deftiolions of urban area-  may affect coarability of                 provides gerl, vocational or ceacher training instructions for pupils
date  mong emantrisa                                                                         of 12 to 17 yeace of age; correspondence course are generally smludad.
Urheb  Pop titon (7. of total) - gatie of urban to total popolation; different               Years  f Schooling provided (fir  anDd econd leyvls) - Total years of
dafloitiono  of orban arsas may affict comparability of dta among c tncrie.                 seoling; at sacoodary ls.el, weac ienal i_ tru_tiot m-y be paotially or
completely ecloded.
Ae structure (perrent) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-ago  (15-64 years),                  VoctionUl enrollment (% of secondary) - Voational institutione  include
and retired  (65 nears aod ever) Os percentages of nid-year popultion.                        technical, Induarrial or other progroma which operate indepedely  r 
Ags de.esdoccy carte - Rarle  of pepulation coder 1I and 65 and over to these                  deparrseenta of secondary institutiopo.
of  ge- 15 throagh 64.                                                                     Adele literacy race (%) - Literete  adu lts f(ble to read and write) as per-
tectoic dceodnr   atio - Rtio of poPulation under 15 aed 65 sod over to                 ceotage of total adult ppuletion aged 15 pears and ovsr.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
PFrriy plsooioo -uccceptors (cvaulative. thee) - Culative number of acceptors                 fossing
of birth-control decices under sospicee of eatio-al family planning program                Persona pen room  (urban) - Average comber of pereons per ran  in ocepied
atone liscepi--.                                                                              conventional dwell ng-  in urb  nare.; dwellings emelode con-permanese
PaIly plaocfog-uu. rs(7. of uarried  -one) - Percentages of marriad wane  of                    structures sod unoccpied pares.
thild-bsarlng age (15-44 years) who coc birth-contr-I devicee to  11 married               Occupied dwlligs                                 Occupied cnventioal dwellings
cot  io save ago group.                                                                       in urbac end rural areas without inside or estaide piped water facilities
as percentage of .11 stespied dwellings.
P,eeiaomeor                                                           A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cces toelectricity M7. a  all dwellings) - Convetional  dwellicgs with 
Total labor force (thewac-d) - Econ-ically active persons, including armed                      electricity   n living qu-rtera e  perc nt of total da ellioga to urban and
fores and unemployad hut -ecludieg hobe.eives, students, etc.; definitione                   rural areas
it varios countriea are not co-parable.                                                    Rura  dweligs Connected to eletricity () - Computed as ahw  for r-r1
Laebr force ft aaricoltsre (78 - Agricultural labor force (in faeming, ferastry,               ir    . d eling nly.
hubting and fiehing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (7 of lebhr force) - Un.-pioped are usually defined as persons who                 Conamaption
are able ad willini to take a job, out of a (ob on a given day, renaned out                 Radio receivrs (per thou eon) - All typea of recivrs for  adio broadcasts
of a job, sod secking verk for   specified minimu- period nor ec.esding                       to ge.r-  public per thend -f population; seciudes   lensed reciers
week, n y ont be comparable betwess countries due to different definitions                    in eoutnies  nd in years whn regietration of radio s  wata  in  fPec;t;
af unemployed aod source of data, e.g., esploy-nt office statlatics, *eple                    data for recent year  may not be comparble eince most rdo      ntries abolished
surveye, toPpolsory ocempleynect insor-ce.                                                    licening.
I-    di.trib.ti.. - P--.ge of priv.t. Jc                            ~~~Passnge care f     to eon    -.Passeger .rar  conprie motor cars seating
Inco_ distributfon - pereoage of private meins (both in cash and kind)                         leas  tee eoight person   exl-udes ambulaces, heara and military
received by riche-t 57, richest 207, poorest 207., and poorest 40D  of house-                 vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Electricity (Iksh/yr per Cap) - Annual consomption of iduetrial. cnsertial,
public end private electricity Is kilowett h-ear  per capita, generally
Distributioc of land ownershIp - Perce-taico of land owned by wealthiest 10D                    based on prodnotion data, without  llo ttce far loeses in grids  ot rallo-
end poorest IG02 of lad owoers.                                                              ig for imports and emports of electricity.
H..1th end Nutritln                                                                           Neprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consanption in kilograma
Pop1latio per ohysiciac - Population divided by ounher of practicing                            ..tiD  ted froe d-tic producti- PI-- net iport.  f newsprint
physicia.. quslified fri a cediral school at u-iveraity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
US$ million      %            1966-71           1971-76              1976
GNP at Market Prices             17,631       100.0           5.1                6.6                 6.4
Gross Domestic Investment         5,519        31.3           5.9               12.5                 6.3
Gross National Saving             4,413        25.0           2.4               10.8                 6.6
Current Account Balance         -1,106         -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS             3,115        17.7          -0.5                5.6                18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS             4,270        24.2           4.1                6.5                 1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            X       Million          %              -US$              X
Agriculture           5,156             29.0         8.1          50.0              637            58.0
Industry              6,029             33.9         2.3          14.2            2,621          238.7
Services              6,607             37.1         5.0          30.9            1,321           120.3
Unemployed              .                 .          0.8           4.9              .            _
Total/Average     17,792             100.0        16.2        100.0             1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)            % of GDP
1976          1976          1971          1976           1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8           11.3          18.3          13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7           10.1          16.1          12.2           7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0            1.2           2.2           1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8            1.6           4.5           3.4           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976      August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                         6,500      7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100         12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector         3,900      2,400      2,000      5,800      8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600             34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5       10.1        9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0         117.6      154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.7       17.6       31.3        8.0        8.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0      53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector         21.7       28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                     US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     539       21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                         613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NPS          3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                        298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                         437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178           7.1
Interest Payments (net)           26      -53    -185   Other Manufactures                    456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138         Total                            2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                    276      318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         28      125      144
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed          2,216
Disbursements                  456      677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  1,812
Amortization                   312      318      368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed            4,028
Subtotal                     144      359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a           143      -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)         110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed           7.2
Gross Reserves                                           Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  10.5
(end year) /b                1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed              17.7
Petroleum Imports                573      710      801
IBRD/IDA LENDING, February 28, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed              457.7   29.0
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                              697.4    3.2
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,155.1   32.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.275  7.447       7.418          7.403
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138  0.134       0.135         0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of February 28, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                        Amounts ($ million)
Number     Year       Borrower         Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed            218.5    19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation         34.0               0.3
720-PH    1971                        Rice Processing
"1            and Storage       14.3               4.4
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power              22.0               4.3
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                12.7      3.2
891-PH    1973           "            Fisheries          11.6                1.1
939-PH    1973           "            Ports               6.1                3.2
950-PH    1973           "            Second Highways   68.0                14.2
984-PH    1974                        Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5               5.9
998-PH    1974           "            DFC-DBP I          50.0                7.4
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power              61.0              27.0
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population         25.0              18.7
1048-PH    1974           "            Shipping           20.0              15.1
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                 30.0              19.6
1089-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation       17.0              11.4
1102-PH    1975                        Rural
Development      25.0              22.5
1120-PH    1975                        Small and Medium
Industries       30.0               8.0
1154-PH    1976                        Magat
Irrigation       42.0              32.8
1190-PH    1976                        DFC-DBP II         75.0              56.3
1224-T-PH  1976           "            Education III      25.0              20.3
1225-PH    1976                        Livestock II       20.5              12.4
1227-PH    1976                        Chico Irrigation  50.0               47.7
1272-T-PH  1976           "            Manila Urban       10.0               9.0
1282-PH    1976                        Manila Urban       22.0              19.7
1269-PH    1976                        Second Grain
Processing       11.5              11.5
1270-PH    1976           "            Second Fisheries  12.0               10.2
1353-PH    1977           "            Third Highways    95.0               94.5
1367-PH    1977                        Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                15.0
1374-PH    1977           "            Fourth Education  25.0               24.5
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit            36.5              34.9
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Improvement      50.0              49.8
1415-PH    1977                        Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0               22.7
1421-PH    1977                        Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0               15.0
1460-PH    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power      58.0              58.0
1506-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines        Farming           8.0               8.0
1514-PH *  1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC (PDCP)          30.0              30.0
*                                             Total /a                                      1.265.5    32.2    738.6
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                      110.4        -
Total now outstanding                         1,155.1    32.2
Amount sold                       22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                13.1             8.9        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                               1,146.2    32.2
Total undisbursed                               697.4      3.2    738.6
/a A loan of $65 million for the Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project was approved by the Executive Directors on February 28, 1978 and
signed on March 15, 1978. In addition, a loan of $2 million for an
Educational Radio Technical Assistance Project was approved by the
Executive Directors on March 21, 1978.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 28, 1978
Fiscal                                                     Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                       8.0        -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                          4.5        -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                  0.8      0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                  -      2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation              6.2      2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                               15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                1.9      0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation         1.5        -      1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5         0.5      2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation              1.2        -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                7.0        -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                    2.6      0.2      2.8              4
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                    2.3      1.2      3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -       3.5
Total gross commitments                      71.0    15.3      86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                       24.5    12.0      36.5
Total commitments now held by IFC            46.5     3.3      49.8
Undisbursed                                   5.0       -       5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14. 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:  July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
*            has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas. Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way. After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan is assisting the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months.  The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan became effective on October 27, 1977, and substantial
progress has been made with regard to the innovative institution-building
nature of the project's administrative framework. At the field level, there
is evidence that the project has encouraged initiatives in locale-specific,
least-cost and appropriate-technology planning work. Progress with the
programmed schedule is, however, temporarily behind schedule due to funding
problems in 1977 and some procedural cash flow problems early in 1978.
Adequate local funds have been appropriated in 1978, however, and procedural
budgetary problems are currently being resolved.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Mil-
lion Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government to improve and develop irriga-
tion systems for a total of 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen
the National Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement
was signed on March 15, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts
have been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road
restoration/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention
has been given to this problem and, as a result, these components are expected
to accelerate during the coming year.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T  Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9. 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion.  The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
-ir Lthe 7ondc priority area Is also ne_irn& completion.  A paper on the
status of this project was submitted to the Executive Directors in December.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1. 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31. 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This Loan was signed on February 9, 1978 and is not yet effective.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
PHILIPPINES
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  24 months.
(b)  The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
(c)  First presentation to the Association:  March 1975.
First Association mission to consider the project: January 1977.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 1977.
Departure of Follow-Up Mission:  October 1977.
(e)  Completion of negotiations:  March 1978.
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1978.
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
(a)  The Association and the Philippines Government have agreed on an
implementation timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
(b)  An Association mission would visit Manila during the coming months
to review progress in project implementation and agree on reporting
requirements, including continuous monitoring of the agricultural
development associated with selected roads and communal irrigation
systems in the project provinces.
(c)  In particular, during the coming months, Association staff will need
to review:
(i) evaluation report of selected irrigation systems with impound-
ing reservoirs and with total cost exceeding P 3.0 million;
(ii) evaluation report of selected barangay road stretches with
total cost exceeding P 4.0 million;
(iii) tender documents for procurement of vehicles, equipment
and materials by various agencies; and



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(iv) terms of reference by DPH for the Road Engineer and an engineer
to assist in the preparation of a plan for labor-based methods
of construction as well as consultants for the barangay road
component.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower agreed during negotiations that:
(a) The National Irrigation Association and the Department of Public
Highways would submit full evaluation reports for review by the
Association prior to implementation for irrigation systems costing
more than P 3.0 million and road stretches costing more than
P 4.0 million (paras. 46 and 48);
(b) it would cause Farm Systems Development Corporation (FSDC), the
Department of Public Highways and the Bureau of Public Works to
recruit and train additional staff required for project implemen-
tation on a timetable agreed with the Association (paras. 56, 58
and 63);
(c) it would include the communal irrigation component of the project
within the scope of the plan of action for provision of agricultural
supporting services to Bank Group-assisted projects being prepared
under the second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project
(Loan 1526-PH) (para. 56);
(d) it would cause its Department of Public Highways to employ consultants,
as and when required, to assist in implementation of the project
(paras. 57-59);
(e) it would, within five years of completion of construction of project
roads, gradually raise the level of annual maintenance funds for
all barangay roads within the six project provinces to an equivalent
of P 6,000 per km, and it would cause DPH to ensure that equipment
supplied under the project would remain under the operational
control of district engineers and be used exclusively for maintenance
of barangay roads in the project districts (para. 60);
(f) it would cause its Philippine Ports Authority to prepare a plan
of action by June 30, 1979 outlining the procedures and fees to be
levied for the use of project port facilities and it would proceed
with the implementation of such a plan of action by December 31,
1979 (para. 61);
(g) the Government would ensure that the beneficiaries of the communal
irrigation systems under the project would continue to contribute
to the cost of investment of the works and facilities at existing
levels of repayment satisfactory to the Association, and that NIA
would consult annually with the Association on the adequacy of
such levels (para. 64);



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
(h) it would cause its Department of Public Highways to prepare a plan
of action for labor-based construction methods by June 30, 1979.
After review of the plan by the Association, DPH would proceed with
its implementation by December 31, 1979 (para. 59); and
(i) the aggregate amount of civil works to be done by force account by
the implementing agencies would not exceed 40% of the total cost
of the works (para. 53).
.






IBRD 13274
JANIUAeY 197
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                  120-                        i2'                       124-                        126'
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                                                                          PHIUPPINES
ILXlS                   WfiSTERN VISAYAS
- 1lOCs                 WSorTR 37 AkV                                       .                    RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT 1
3ItoooSura             39 Antique                                        8                                  PROJECT PROVINCES
4Motain                40  tioilo
E lU, lon             41 Negros Occidemal
6 gefiuet              CENTRAL VISAYAS
Pww*"         ~42 Cebu                                                                                         PROJECT PRIOVINCES
CAAYANVALLEY           43 Ne"rosOriental                                                                   _ __  MAJR    ROAD
E 8etff                44  tohol                                                                                      MAJOR ROAD
9 C"yan                45 Siquijor                                                                                    RAILWAYS
11 Ie,beIa             46  NoEthernSAArS                                                                   - - -       PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                   IS'
12,g                  47 Samer 
13 NueeVizoaya         46  EaetmnSWrnr SprirrrJ r                                                                      REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
14 EmR                 49 Leyte                                                                            ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CENTRALLUZON           50  Southemn Leyte           LOo*" 
15 Nuevas Ecrip         WESTERN MINDANAO
16 6TIn                51  ZamoneadetNot"e    Beno-                       KAL WGA-APAYAO
13 P7Zmparg            52  ZamboangadelSur    ABRfA
SORNTAGALog       NORTHERNto  MINDANA                                  11 <,                      ~
16               ~~~~~~53  Basiten                                                                      a   W""o*  odmO
19 Suiereo       54 SuIlu
20 ootw                                                                        The *M*W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he* peot of th
21~~~~~~~ 59  MwmitOi                                                                                   bonbi St    do *   1  4 7  rwGfsb
SOUThERN TAGALOG    3ORHENMNDNA2d nth  M*ttond o  of 0
2 1Qom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   6
24 Lew                65  Aguosn del Norte                                                                          e of RI bowteli ,   .   ,
350otangae             59  DovoosOriental ;,  K                     e14
~~~~2 5outloaato w'g=W-s--J 3
26 Marindque            0  Mheomie Occidental 
2 7    dro Oriental    6 1Lwnso del Norte
25 MindoroOcciderntl   62  Lanao del Sur                        So10 1Os0
29 R.mIbn                                                             ;      Juudo  S  Jose.
30 -64  Agusan del Sur                            T T         1      i                                              KILOME12'
Palawan  65 Surige odel Sur  17I
31 CeetwineeNorte       SUHRMNAA                        ' 3~
32 C&n,erneaSu         66 Magumdenao
33 Catenduaner         67 North Couabato   OongpmW               v 21X
34 AIlay               68 Devao Oriental
35 Soreogon            6    eeOin
10.                           7                                                                f'4.t                          /
14#   36 Nuse           70 !,, de,t Sur                                                                                                                         14
{b//L        D     O (        \  I 601     64       \9t
7 --ultan Kud/                                                                obratrp>ra t                   ,
BtluN2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                              33,,,, 5  ,
CH   I      U    /H    C   H A                                     28
i  4   4 -    ' 3, io   120°                        122-                       124                         12L>+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  2'
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
K?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
V  T~~~~~~tAme ~~~~~~~~                        Jolop5~~~~~~anJoe e                    
0.                                         N~~~~~3
MALAL542~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f  ES ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~t 
IN~~ON~~Sr5~~~    -~~  217'                    122                        124'                        126C yor



