Da_at of
The World Bank
FOR oMCFAL USE ONL
Rpwt No..  12126
PERFORNANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
FINALCAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2049-KCE)
JUNE 30, 1993
MICPROGRAPHICS
Report Mo: 12126
Type: PPAR
Operations Evaluation Department
This documeut bas a restricted distribution aad may be used b recipients only in the perfotmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoot World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cur:ency Unit: Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
CY 1989      CY 1990         CY 1991          CY 92
US$1.00       20.57        22.91           27.51            32.2
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBK             Central Bank of Kenya
DPF             Deposit Protection Fund
FSAC            Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSAO            Financial Sector Adjustment Operation
PSEI            Formal Sector Financial Institutions
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
OED             Operations Evaluation Department
PAR             Performance Audit Res ort
PCR             Project Completion Report
PR              President's Report
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.CG 20433
U.&A
Offie of Oifar-etr.wral
Opeatn EvaWuon
June 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DQRECCRS AND TE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Performance Audit Report (PAR) on Kenya - Fmancial
ector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2049-KE)
Attached is the Performance Audit Report on Kenya - Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2049-KE) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) concluded that the FSAC operation was not
successful, due mainly to implementation problems. This PAR takes the position that the operation
wa also prematurely attempted, before the pre-conditions for a successful financial sector
adjustment operation were in place.
The FSACs objective to establish truly marketdetermined interest rates was not met,
importantly because of the absence of interest rate competition amongst banlks, and between banks
and a truly competitive bond market. The FSAC succeeded in improving bank supervision
capabilities, but the improved results were ignored by the Government. In addition, the design of
the operation failed to take account of the competitive advantages enjoyed by the informal financial
sector. Finally, the PAR questions whether the large, untargeted financial flows associated with the
FSAC were appropriate, given Kenya's weak control over the allocation of its budgetary
expenditures.
Overall, the PAR rates the project outcome unsatisfactory, with unlikely sustainability and
partial impact on institutional development.
Attachment
Mis document has a rastricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
oontents may not otheawise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.         l



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KEL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
Preface t S  .e.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .
Basic Dsata Sheet    .................................                     i
Evaluation Su  ary  . . . . . . . . . . . ............ .                    v
I.     INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*
II.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (FSAC)    . . . . . . .    2
Policy Conditions   ...................                        3
Financial Flows   .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .        3
Expected Outcome    .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .        4
III.   PERFOMANCE UNDER FSAC                                                5
The Preconditions Were Not in Place   ..........               6
Design Problems and Ineffective Implementation    . . . .    7
Interest Rates   .....       ..................           a
Institutional Reforms    . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
Did the FSAC Financial Flows Support the
Financial Reforms? ..........10
IV.    OVERALL ASSESSMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY    ..... . . .  ..            10
V.     LESSONS LEARNED    . . . .               *               * * * *    11
This docwunnt has a rstted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutbs Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PERPORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KRE)
PREFACE
1.    This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC), involving IDA Credit (No. 2049-RE), with the objective
of supporting policy ard institutional reforms. The Credit for SDR 92.9 million
was approved by the Board on June 27, 1989, and became effective on July 31,
1989. Funds available under the credit were augmented by IDA reflows of SDR 35.3
million in October 1989 and SDR 48.2 million in November 1990, raising the total
IDA financing to SDR 176.4 million. The Closing Date was September 30, 1991.
Cofinancing in the amount of US$77.5 million was provided by Belgium, Sweden,
Germany, Japan and OECF.
2.    The PAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and is
based on the Project Completion Report (PCR), ' the President's Report (PR),
project documentation and discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited
Kenya in August 1992, and discussed the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance
with representatives  of the Government and private sector.   Their kind
cooperation and valuable assistance in the preparation of this report is
gratefully acknowledged.
3.    The PCR provides a good description of the financial sector at the time
of the conception of the operation and of the goals and modus operandi of the
FSAC. It suggests, accurately, that Government commitment to policy reforms was
weak, and an important reason for the limited success of the operation. However,
it does not examine issues of sequencing, timing and preconditions and,
therefore, of the relevance and timeliness of FSAC.
4.    The PAR elaborates on such aspects as the failure of the Bank to delay tbe
FSAC until the preconditions for its success were in place, as well as the
significance of a truly competitive bond market and the informal foreign exchange
market in establishing true "market-determined' interest rates. An additional
issue covered in the PAR relates to the difficulty of channelling PSAC resources
in a way which did not either, offset the policy intent of the operation and/or
compete unfairly with the very financial institutions which the operation aimed
to strengthen.   Finally,  regarding the FSAC's emphasis  on restructuring
weak/insolvent banks, the PAR draws the lesson that replacing poor bank managers
with more motivated ones, and increasing their independence from official
intervention proved initially more important than financial restructuring of bank
balance sheets and increasing Central Bank supervision.
5.    The draft PAR was sent to the Borrower for comments but none were received.
/ Project Completion Report, Kenya: Financial Sector Adiustment Credit, Report
No. 11422, November 24, 1992.



- iii -
PERPORMANCQ AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
CREDIT POSITION
(Amounts in US$ Million)
As of Apr. 30. 1993
Credit    Original     Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid   Outstandinf
2049-K5    231.3        238.17          --          __        249.940
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
Iin SDR millions)
FY89     FY90      FY91     FY91
oct.    Nov.       Oct.     Nov.
Appraisal Estimate                   35.3     83.5      168.4    176.4
Actual                               35.3     83.5      168.4    176.4
Actual as S of Appraisal (X)         1001     1001      1002     1001
Date of Final Disbursement:         November 5, 1991
PROJECT DATES
Original       Actual
Identification                         01/88         01/88
Letter of Financial Sector Policy                    04/89
Negotiations                           06/89         06/89
Board Approval                         06/89         06/89
Signing                                07/89         07/89
Effectiveness                          07/89         07/89
Credit Closing                         09/91         09/91
1l The difference between this and the initial amount is due to the fact that
the Credit was denominated in SDRs (SDR 176.4 million).



- iv -
YEAR-END 590 RATINGS
Eval.                Development     Legal      Management  Availability
Year      Overall    Obiectives    Covenants    Perfonmance    of Funds
90          1           1             1            1            1
91          1           1             1            2            1
92          1           1             1            2            1
SWAFF INPUTS
(staffveeks)
Fiscal Year    Preappraisal    Ayrraisal   Nezotiatio  Supervisior    Other   Total
1986            .2                                                 .4        .6
1988           21.2                                                 .2      21.4
1989           48.4          26.5         7.8            1.0                83.7
1990                                                    14.5                14.5
1991                                                     8.4        .3       8.7
1992                                                    10.0       6.5      1S.5
Total          69.9          26.5         7.8           33.9       7.4    145.3
MISSION DATA
No. of   No. of      Staff    Date of
Nonth/Year   Weeks    Persons    Weeks    Report
Identification           01/88         3          7          21      01/88
Identification           05/88         2          2           4      06188
Preparation I            09/88         2          1           2      09188
Preappraisal             09/88         3          6          18      09/88
Appraisal                11188       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.     02189
Appraisal                05/89         3          2           6      06/89
Supervision I            11/89         2          2           4       12189
Supervision II           02/90         2          1           2      02/90
Supervision III          02/90         4          2           8      03/90
Supervision IV           06/90         4          6          24      07/90
Supervision V            02/91         4          1           4      03/91
Supervision VI           06/91         1          1           1      07/91
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower: Republic of Kenya
Follow-on Prolect(sh:
Project:                Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit No.:             2204
Amount:                  US$75.0 million
Board Date:             01/17/91



-v-
PERFORMAWCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-RE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The   PSAC   was   the   fift44  allocation of credit so that a larger
adjustment credit for Kenya during the   share or credit expansion would go to
1980s and the last of a "triad" of   "quality" borrowers.   Together these
operations undertaken in the mid-late   would cause an increase in GDP growth,
1980s.  The first two of these focused   through the financing of a greater
on adjustment in the agricultural and   number of higher 7welding investmenro
industrial  sectors while  this  FSAC   with larger amounts of credit.  They
concentrated    on    reforming    the   would also improve bank balance sheets
financial  sector.    Neither  of  the   by  raising  the  share  of  "quality"
previous two "real" sector operations   credit  in  their  loan  portfolios.
of  the  triad  or  the  two  SACc   Improving the allocation of credit was
undertaken  in the early  1980s, had   to be  induced  through  liberalizing
been effective. They mafse only slight   (i.e., increasing) interest rates and
progress   in   reducing   Government   improving  the  lending  behavior  of
interventions in the economy and in   financial institutions.   This latter
stimulAting   productive   investment   was to be brought about by better bank
opportunities so as to increase the   s u p e r v i s i o n    a n d    b y
demand   for   "quality"   investment   reforming/restructuring    weak    or
credit.     On  the  contrary,  high   insolvent banks.  Together these were
yielding,   real   sector   investment   expected  to  improve  bank  lending
opportunities and the (related) demand   practices, thus enabling them to shed
for  credit were  depressed.    As  a   bad (and increase good) loans so as to
result,    financial    institutions   improve the value of their portfolios.
throughout the period of the FSAC
were, for the most part, faced with   3.    The main conditions of the FSAC
two "no win" choices.  One was to lend   which  were  expected  to  accomplish
to the Government at "too low," now   these aims were:   (i) abide by the
negative, interest rates.   The other   quantitative fiscal and credit targets
was to lend "adversely" to weak and   established  under  the  IMF program;
inefficient  enterprises  which  are   (ii) maintain positive real interest
extremely unlikely  to appropriately   rates;  (iii)  establish  a  Monetary
service and repay all of their debts.   Policy  Committee;  (iv)  remove  all
Only  financing  well  collateralized   remaining interest rate ceilings; (v)
trade   credits   showed   profitable   expand and improve the marketing of
results.                                  government bonds -o as to establish a
true   secondary  market   for   such
2.    The ultimate aim of the FSAC was   instruments;   (vi)  add  staff  and
to:   (i) stabilize  the economy  in   equipment    to    strengthen    bank
order   to   prevent   increases   in   supervision and establish a College of
inflation and, therefore, enable the   Banking  and  Finance;  (vii)  switch,
maintenance of positive real lending   over the longer run, from the use of
interest rates and (ii) improve the   credit ceilings to the use of reserve



- vi -
requirements;    and,    (viii)  credit.   Recognition of tdis would
restructure/reform  (consolidate)  a   have improved the PSAC.
number of weak or insolvent bantks. In
addition,   the  optration  included   6.   Besides    the    absence    of
exhortations   that  the  government   appropriate preconditions, there were
zrengthen the capital (equity) msarket   design  and  implementation  problems
in  K-nya  so  as  to  enhance  the   associated  with  the  FSAC.    One
provision   of   long   term,  equity   important  design  problem  was  the
finance.                                 absence of concern for the continued
existence of price controls in Kenya.
4.   The Government implemented the  A  second  was  the  absence  of  an
letter if not the spirit of all but   appreciation of the need to integrate
one of these conditions/suggestions.  foreign exchange and bond markets. It
As a result, the release of the credit  was, and  stil' is, the  case  that
funds,   in   three   tranches,  was   informally  imposed  price  controls
warranted.                               stifle    real    sector    investment
incentives.    Then,  as  now,  the
Assessment and Lessons Learned    appropriate   relationship   between
interest rates and exchange rates has
5.   Unfortunately, the PSAC was i-t   been established in the informal but
a successful or sustainable operatio :.  not in the formal financial sector.
A  primary  reason  was  that  the   Other implementation problems included
preconditions for successful financial   the continued use of credit ceilings,
reform were not in place at the time   official  meddling  in  the  credit
the JSAC was sent to the Board.  Of   allocation/loan repayment process and
major importance wva  dhe absence of an   the lack of enforcement of the results
adequately adjusted or "robust" real   of an improved and expanded Central
sector which was experiencing a grcwth   Bank supervisory service.   However,
in    high    yielding    investment   the most fundamental implementation
opportunities. As a result, a primary   problem  related  to  the  lack  of
prerequisite for successful financial   interest rate competition which was
sector reform--a growing demand for   exacerbated by the absence of a true,
"quality"  credit--was  absent.   Put   competitive bond market.
differently,   successful   financial
sector reforms are predicated on a   7.    Finally, it is likely that the
need to increase the supply of credit   money disbursed under the FSAC did not
in order to relax a credit constraint   help,    and    possibly    hindered,
which prevents undertaking available,   achievement of PSAC goals.  While the
high yielding investments.  This was   rationalization for FSAC's financial
not the case in Kenya at the *ime of   flows was on the basis of the foreign
the Board presentation of the FSAC,   exchange requirements for imports and
and it is still not the case today.   debt servicing, most Kenyan officials
Instead, there is a shortage of high  were really interested in the fact
yielding  investment  opportunities,   that the domestic counterpart funds
primarily because of infrastructural   would be passed on in a non-market,
problems and delayed and incomplete   unconstrained way to finance budgetary
reforms to real sector incentives.  In   expenditures.  Given the IW  program
addition,   the   informal   financial   and the limit on Government receipt of
sector  in  Kenya  is  vibrant  and   banking credit, non-receipt of PSAC
currently has a competitive advantage   funds  vrould  probably  have  meant
over the formal sector in supplying   cutting the  size and intervention of



-vii -
the Government--svmething which was,   private sector, it would have competed
in fact, the policy aim of the Bank's   ruinously with lending from the very
overall adjustment program.  Thus, the   financial  institutions  which  FSAC
direction  of  the  relatively  large   policies aimed to support.  In light
domestic currency equivalent of the   of this, it might have been better to
FSAC  toward  financing  the  budget   target   the  expenditures   of  the
deficit supported "larger" government.   counterpart funds to priority social
However,  had  it  not  gone  to  the   and/or    infrastructural    public
Government, but been redirected to the   expenditures.



PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KE)
I. INTR(DUCTION
1.        By the start of the 1980s Kenya was experiencing most of the problems
which gave rise to adjustment lending. The Agricultural and Industrial sectors,
together comprising the bulk of Kenya's "real" or productive economy, were
riddled with distortions and pernicious interventions by government officials.
Public enterprises for producing and/or marketing output had expanded to a
position of dominance. Most had become seriously inefficient. Budget deficits
plus the expanding credit needs of parastatals had raised national financing
requirements to alarming levels, thus "crowding out" private initiative. Price
controls, imposed by the Government or by influential officials, were pervasive.
Altogether, private incentives to invest and e'sn to fully utilize existing
capacity were depressed.   Rates of return to most investment projects had
declineA to unacceptably low levels.
2.        The Government's reaction to these problems, beginning in the 1980.,
tended toward even more intervention. Of great significance was the Government's
tendency to "lean" on any captive f:nancial institutions so as to force them to
make excessive amounts of easy and cheap credit available to problem or
inefficient enterprises. In this way, the GoverAment was able to force financial
intermediaries to finance the rising costs of inefficiency in a way which was
consistent with continued price controls. These credit transactions introduced
a serious perversity into credit allocation; the worst enterprises, those which
needed more and more cheap credit to survive, got first preference on new loans.
This problem, known as "adverse selection", ruined many bank balance sheets while
keeping output prices low, thus worsening private investor incentives. It became
the case, increasingly, that private investors could find an outlet for their
investment ambitions only through informal financial sector activity.
3.        The Bank introduced structural adjustment lending into this situation
with a first SAC in 1980. This was followed by a second SAC in 1982. The
success of these early SACs was extremely limited. Audits of each (see ORD
audits No. 4934, February 1984 and No. 5682, May 1985) suggest that the major
shortcoming of these SACs was inadequate implementation. The audits further
indicate that the major accomplishments of these early SACs were improved
dialogue and a greater "adjustment orientation" by the Government.   The
assessment of these early SACs in the President's Report for the PSAC is
cryptically negative. It states that they were "disappointments" (PR, para.
6-04, p. 23).
4.        Following these SACs, in the mid-1980s, the Region decided to revisit
the original adjustment agenda vil a "triad" of sector-oriented adjustment
operations.   It was felt that the sector orientations would improve the
Government's focus and the implementation of policy reforms.  The proposed
sequence of the triad, first agricultural adjustment and then industrial



adjustment and finally financial sector adjustment (i.e. this FSAC), was based
primarily on a tendency in the Bank to undertake "real sector" adjustment
operations first and then, following these, to undertake financial sector
adjustment operations.   Thus, the Agriculturu. Sector Adjustment operation
(Credit No. 1717) was approved in June 1986 and the Industrial Sector Adjustment
operation (Credit No. 1927) was approved in June 1988.  Although both were
sequenced to occur prior to the PSAC, each contained finuacial or credit
components which were precursors to the PSAC.
5.        These two crecits were also audited (see OED documents No. 8862, June
1990, and No. 9746, June 1991). These later audits suggest that the focus of
these two adjustment operations toward the real sector was warranted and
appropriate. The sequencing of these two "real" sector operations before the
ESAC is also tacitly approved. The audits cite some specific areas of success
in each operation. They note some improvement in implementation and in the,
vaguely defined, "adjustment atmosphere". Regarding the operations' overall
adjustment iupact on the real sector, the audit of the Agricultural Sector
adjustment operation is guarded, while the audit of the Industrial Sector
adjustment operation is somewhat more negative.
6.        Overall, it is clear that the adjustment process leading up to the
appraisal and approval of the FSAC was not a successful one. Furthermore, the
lack of successful reform was easily discernible at the time of appraisal of the
PSAC, even without a formal Financial Sector Review and without the results of
the audits of the two sector adjustment operations. The adjustment process in
Kenya, particularly in the real sect.or, had faltered and was far from complete.
Government or "official" dominance of and intervention in the economy was, if
anything, greater in 1989 than it had been before the first SAC in 1980.
Incentives to invest in the formal sector were even more severely depressed and
informal activity in the real as well in the financial sectors had increased
significantly. There was ample evidence that a continuation of the adjustment
strategy which had been followed so far was unlikely to yield significant
results. In spite of this, serious consideration was apparently not given to the
guestlin of whether the FSAC was an aDpronriate adjustment operation for Renya
at that time, given the economy's generally unfavorable response to the previous
adjustment operations and the unfavorable conditions in the economy at the time.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTNENT CREDIT (FSAC)
7.        Work on the PSAC began in late 1988 and the credit was rapidly pushed
to Board approval in May 1989. The operation was not based on a serious study
of the adjustment or financial needs in Kenya. Instead, a very quick, informal
.eview of the financial sector was done, essentially in parallel with the
processing of FSAC. The findings of the review were summarized in the FSAC
Initiating Memorandum dated November 1988. The review thus became little more
than a rationale for the proposed operation. It failed to analyze whether the
preconditions for a successful Financial Sector Adjustment Operation (FSAO) were
in place it. Kenya. In addition, it set forth proforma policy conditions which
were standard for World Bank FSAOs, without tailoring them to the needs of the
Kenyan economy. As a result of this, the PSAC was approved in an inappropriate
setting--one in which the preconditions for its success were absent.   In



-3-
addition, it had a series of specific design faults which would have caused it
to have a very limited impact even in the event that it had been implemented in
the context of an appropriate set of preconditions. The lack of appropriate
preconditions together with some specific design and implementation faults
suggest that approval of the PSAC should have been considerably delayed and the
operation somewhat redesigned.
Policy Conditions
8.        The policy content of the operation focused on three main areas: macro
stabilization,   financial   liberalization,   primarily  of   interest   rate
determination, and institutional reforms. The fundamental aim of the latter two
was to improve the allocation of credit. Conditions on macro stability were
imposed in conjunction with an IMF program and consisted importantly of
quantitative targets, or, achieving an acceptable "macro framework" for the
fiscal deficit and its financing and for overall credit creation. Together with
some growth in GDP these were to limit inflation to levels below nominal interest
rates so that (another explicit condition) credit lending rates would remain
positive in real terms. A condition of Board presentation was that a Monetary
Policy Committee be established. This would ensure compliance with IMF credit
ceilings by verifying that money (MI) was available to the Government before
proposed budgetary expenditures could be undertaken. This was done to prevent
a build-up of Government payment arrears.
9.        The other interest rate conditions, besides maintenance of positive
real interest rates, were for the Government to remove all remaining interest
rate ceilings and to establish a competitive secondary market for its bonds. The
most significant remaining interest rate ceiling, a 15 percent limit on
commercial loans, was first to be raised to 18 percent and then removed
altogether. The establishment of an improved secondary market for government
bonds was to aid in interest rate reform by enabling the discounting of bonds.
This would adjust nominal interest rates in line with rates available in freer
financial markets, notably the informal financial system.
10.       Institutional reforms fell into two categories depending on whether
they related to improving the operation of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) or to
restructuring troubled (insolvent) financial institutions. Strengthening the
operation of CBK involved conditions for adding staff and equipment to strengthen
bank supervision, establishing a College of Banking and Finance and switching,
over the longer run, from the use of credit ceilings to the use of reserve
requirements  to control the expansion of bank  lending.    Regarding bank
restructuring, the Government, in conjunction with CBK, was to formulate and
implement a restructuring plan. As time went on, this became known as the "bank
consolidation" program. These conditions on the banking system were supplemented
by a series of suggestions aimed at strengthening the capital (equities) market
in Kenya.
Financial Flows
11.       The PSAC was originally estimated to be equivalent to US$120 million
and was to be disbursed quickly, over 2.5 calendar years in three tranches
against a negative list of imports. The credit was to provide foreign exchange



-4-
to finance BOP "deficits" over 1989-91 consisting of the sum of the current
account deficit and debt amortization payments. It was stipulated that a Kenya
shilling counterpart, equal to about SDR 31 million or US$41 million, was to be
earmarked for the Deposit Protection Fund (DPF). The remaining Kenya shilling
counterpart was untargeted but, following long-standing precedent, was to be
credited to the Government's General Revenue Fund to help finance budgetary
deficits.
12.       In actuality, the dollar size of the credit increased to about US$225.
million because of IDA reflows. The Kenya shilling equivalent of this was about
5,452 million, of which 5,232 million was deposited by the Central Bank into the
General Revenue Fund and about R Sh 310 million (SDR 8.5 million or US$11
million) was "deposited" into the DPF. It is possible, however, that some of
these DPF deposits were "intermediated" back to the General Revenue Fund by
limiting payouts from the DPF to below K Sh 310 million.
13.       The size of the credit was det-' umined in the PR on the basis of certain
foreign exchange requirements. It was reasoned that Kenya must, at a minimum,
be able to finance its current account deficits, its public debt and IMF
amortization payments and certain amounts of reserve increases. For example, for
the first year, 1989, this "financing requirement" was identified as US$1075
million and was to be financed by US$1020 million of other inflows and US$55
million of disbursements from PSAC. Of the US$1020 million of other inflows,
most was identified but there was a small "gap". No reason was given for why the
first year's requirement of US$55 million, rather than some other figure, was
chosen.
14.       The credit was disbursed in three tranches.  The first, right after
effectiveness, consisted of two portions, one for the "adjustment" and one for
"institutional" portion. Thereafter, there were two additional tranche releases.
The second, for the adjustment portion of the credit, occurred following the
second tranche release letter dated August 1990. The third tranche release was
for the remaining "institutional" portion of the credit. This occurred after the
"final" tranche release letter dated September 1991.
Expected Outcome
15.       It was expected that these policy conditions and financial flows would
improve the allocation of an appropriately limited amount of credit expansion.
The IMF program, supposedly coupled in later years with firmly administered
reserve requirement ratios, would limit credit expansion to prevent inflation.
Interest rate adjustments plus institutional reforms and restructuring weak
banks, all under this FSAC, would improve credit allocation by, relatively
speaking, reducing credit flows to the Government and to weak, inefficient
enterprises and increasing credit flows to an expanding number of high yielding
private sector investments. In addition, interest rates were to become more
"market determined", importantly by the establishment of a truly competitive
secondary market for government bonds.
16.       The FSAC's major presumption was that high yielding investments, which
would increase GDP, existed in Kenya but were not being undertaken because of a
lack of credit. This was assumed to be the case in spite of excessive overall



credit expansion which required the Government to adhere to an IMF-type
stabilization program. The problem was thus allocative; it was reasoned that the
financial system was perversely allocating too much credit to poor users, thus
denying credit to high yielding investments. A major aim of the PSAC was,
therefore, to increase the flow of credit to these high yielding investment
opportunities while limiting overall credit expansion. This would require severe
curtailment of credit to poor or perverse credit users.
17.       This credit allocation "twist" was to be brought about through market
rather than administrative means.  This meant that raising real interest rates
took on a pivotal role. Higher real interest rates were expected to shut off
demand from poor or perverse credit users, thus leaving a larger share of credit
to high-quality users.  Implicit in this "financial" solution to the growth
problem is the assumption that the demand for higher quality credit is
insensitive or inelastic with respect to the rise in real interest rates. That
is, that the potential yields to productive investments are sufficiently high
that the demand for credit to finance them is independent of the rise in real
interest rates. Thus, assuming a strong, interest inelastic demand for credit
for quality uses, the FSAC focussed on increasing the rupply of such credit.
This was to be done primarily by raising real interest rates, to shut off demand
by poor users, and by reforms to the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), notably
improved supervision to identify and reduce any "adverse" lending practices, and
by using the Deposit Protection Fund (DPF) to bail out depositors and enable good
banks to shed bad loans. However, without an expanding, interest inelastic
demand for "quality" credit, successfully reforming the real sector through
financial sector reform, is not possible. It is like, "pushing a rope"Y
I,I. PERFORMANCE UNDER PSAC
18.       With the exception of the establishment of a secondary market for its
bonds, the Government compliance with the conditions of the PSAC was good, as is
fully detailed in the Program Completion Report and in the Tranche Release
Letters.   The release of the FSAC funds was, therefore, fully warranted.
Unfortunately, the expected overall impact of the FSAC, or the improvement in
credit allocation and in the lending portfolios of financial institutions was not
achieved. This appears to have been the case, first because the timing of the
PSAC was too early, before the preconditions for its success were in place;
second because the design of the operation was in some ways deficient; third
because the Government of Kenya complied mainly with the letter but not the
spirit of most of the conditions of the credit; and, finally, because a large
share of the financial flows associated with the credit did not support and may
have contraeicted some reform aims of the operation.
1, This audit of the PSAC has benef itted significantly from a paper entitled
Financial Sector Adiustment Lending: A Preliminary Assessment of the Bank's
ExDerience, dated April 1991, written by Financial Policy and Systems Division
of the Country Economics Department. It was distributed on May 10, 1991. This
particular point regarding the need for the expansion of "quality" credit is
covered in para. 3.15 of that paper.



-6-
The Preconditions Were Not in Place
19.       For this FSAC, neither of the two most Important preconditions for
success were in place at the time it was approved by the Board in May 1989.
Although it was correctly sequenced to follow operations in the real sector, it
was prematurely proposed and placed in an economic situation which lacked the
required preconditions for success.21
20.       The demand for "quality" credit was not high and did not expand as
assumed, primarily because adiustment in the real sector. imnortantly involvint
reductions of official intervention, had not succeeded i; increasina the real
oroduction and investment og2ortunities from which the demand for this credit is
derived. The fact that potentially high yielditg private sector endeavors are
not credit constrained has been cited in several recent studies.11 The lack of
credit demand is primarily due to the absence of good investment opportunities.
Government or "official" dominance of, and intervention in the economy was, if
anything, greater in 1989, at the time of FSAC approval than it had been in 1980.
Incentives to investors in the formal sector were depressed, and informal
activity  in the  real,  as well  as  the  financial  sector,  had  increased
sIgnificantly. Evidence that inadequate or incomplete real sector adjustment
depressed the demand for credit is provided by observations made repeatedly by
Kenya bankers.  Many agreed that the demand for credit had become increasingly
depressed over the last five years because of a "lack of bankable projects".
Several also observed that the two most significant reasons for this were too
much official intervention and inadequate or poorly maintained infrastructure.
A statement made by one banker, with which others agreed was, "there is no doubt
that the best thing that could happen to the financial sector in Kenya would be
improvements to the productive sector and to infrastructure.   If this had
occurred, banks would have had much better lending opportunities".
21.       A continued belief in Government intervention coupled with intervention
by officials provides important evidence that adjustment has not yet occurred in
Kenya.   Bankers cited four areas in which these interventions were most
pernicious. One was continued, but not officially sanctioned, price controls.
A second was the continued use of credit ceilings. A third was official meddling
in the credit allocation/loan repayment process. The fourth was the lack of
enforcement of the results of an improved and expanded Central Bank supervisory
21 This point is made forcefully in, World Bank Structural and Sectoral
Adjustment ODerations: The Second OED Overview, Report No. 10870, June 30, 1992,
p. 82, which says, "Interest rates should not be liberalized if inflation rates
are high and variable, budget deficits excessive, or external capital flows
volatile." The report also notes, "Because the real sector (for example, trade
and industry) is slower to adjust than the financial sector, it should be
liberalized before the financial sector is deregulated and interest rates are
freed."
3/ See for example, The Present and Future Financina Needs of the Industrial
Sector in Kenya, by Deloitte Markins and Sells and African Development and
Economic Consultants, May 1992, a study done for the Kenya Association of
Manufacturers.



-7-
service. The last three of these were anticipated in the FSAC. Design and
implementation problems with respect to them are dealt with in the section on
specific design issues below.   The continuance of price controls was not
anticipated in FSAC, however.
22.       A significant deterrent to increased formal sector production and
investment opportunities is the continuance of price controls. Most prices had
long since been "de-Gazetted", but price controls were still enforced either by
local officials, or by Central Government officials acting on behalf of poor
Kenyans. A question asked repeatedly to bankers was, "What would happen to the
quality of your lending portfolio if there were a very significant devaluation
of the Kenyan shilling?" This always elicited the response that the quality of
the portfolios would deteriorate significantly because borrowers could not sass
on the resultant cost increases because of  rlice controls or downward grice
"Pressures".
23.       Achievement of the second main precondition, strengthening formal
sector financial institutions by recognizing the role of "outside" or informal
and foreign sector financial influences on the supply of credit, had also not
occurred at the time the PSAC was approved. It is still not the case today.
Instead, the informal financial sector is large, competitive and very "open".
It is currently well positioned to meet demand for "quality" credit.   In
addition, it is open to the outside world, thus providing Kenyans with easy
access to foreign exchange and foreign investments.  The informal financial
sector thus provides a separate deposit and investment conduit for Kenyans via-A-
vis formal sector financial institutions.   Recognition of this would have
improved the FSAC.
24.       Kenyan bankers provided two indicators of the importance of the
informal market. One is the rampant speculation in foreign exchange. The other
is the extent to which the informal financial system provides credit for domestic
economic activity. Regarding foreign exchange speculation, bankers in Mombasa
estimated that it involved about $4 billion annually. It is not at all difficult
in Kenya to obtain foreign exchange either for "official" transactions or to
speculate in foreign financial instruments. This is in addition to the recently
established "Forex-C" market which essentially represents the Government's
attempt to slacken present demand for foreign exchange by selling forward,
foreign exchange denominated certificates. Even though the demand for 'quality"
credit is not large at present, bankers recognize that the informal financial
sector is supplying much of it. Bankers are not as concerned with a lack of
access to speculative investment activities as they are by the competitive
advantages the informal sector enjoys.
Design Problems and Ineffective Imvlementation
25.       The FSAC's overriding goal was to improve the allocation of credit.
This was to be done partly with policy reforms to increase the influence of
market-determined interest rates. In addition, there were to be institutional
reforms which would both increase the Central Bank of Kenya's macro control and
improve the lending behavior of formal sector financial institutions so as to
raise the quality of their asset portfolios.



-8-
Interest Rates
26.       During the period of implementation of PSAC real interest rates were
maintained at positive levels as stipulated in the Credit Conditions. However,
they did not become "market determined'. This led to negative real interest
rates by mid-1992, after the last disbursement from FSAC. Negative real rates
appeared because inflation began to rise while nomiaal interest rates, remained
relatively low. As a result, nominal rates did not rise to reflect returns
applicable in the informal financial sector, particularly those obtained by
speculation in foreign exchange. The FSAC's proposed removal of interest rate
ceilings on formal sector bank lending helped improve the profitability of a few
already solvent bankst their deposit rates did not rise while they were able to
charge slightly higher rates to a few customers. Banks did not change their
lending patterns, however, and for the relatively large number of "insolvent"
banks, higher lending rates did not help their profitability because their
clients were already not servicing their debts.
27.       The major reason that interest rates are still not "market-determined"
in Kenya is the Government's failure to establish a truly competitive bond
market.  This would most likely involve allowing a secondary market for its
longer-term bond issues to develop. A second reason is the continued Government
restriction on free retention and sales of foreign exchange. Together these
insure that the only true market interest rates in Kenya are in the informal
financial sector, which has, correspondingly, benefitted. That there is not a
true secondary market for bonds is clear from the fact that most new issues of
bonds are "arranged', primarily with pension and insurance companies.   The
"sales" of bonds has occurred at favorable rates and there is a tacit agreement
that they will not be resold at discount. Savers, mainly individuals, have no
access to these bonds. Kenyans acknowledged that the secondary market that
exists, really a part of the interbank money market, is not a true market.
Outside of Government the feeling exists that the Government does not want a true
secondary market because the Government and the parastatals would have to pay
much higher interest rates. Inside the Government the lack of a true market is
laid to institutional shortcomings.
28.       The lack of success of the interest rate goals of the PSAC can be
viewed as an absence of correct Government implementation of the FSAC's proposals
to establish free foreign exchange and bond markets. The absence of free, open
foreign exchange and bond markets was apparent at the time of the release of the
subsequent tranches of the PSAC. However, the wording of the FSAC conditions and
Government compliance with the letter of these conditions led to release of
subsequent tranches in spite of some discomfort among Bank operational staff.
Institutional Reforms
29.       Institutional reforms were to cover the two areas of strengthening the
Central Bank of Kenya and restructuring some small banks which were insolvent.
Strengthening the CBK was to consist mainly of providing technical assistance and
equipment in order to expand CBK's supervision capabilities so as to enforce
better banking practices. In addition, the PSAC proposed switching the means of
monetary control from imposing credit ceilings to enforcing reserve requirements.
Bank restructuring was to consist primarily of strengthening Kenya's Deposit



Protection Fund (DPP), and to allocate a portion of the PSAC financing to it, and
forming a consolidated bank out of the eight or so small insolvent banks which
were the target of the first phase of the restructuring. Neither initiative,
that is strengthening CBK or restructuring the banks was particularly successful,
essentially because the Government carried out the appearance but not the spirit
of the reforms.
30.       Regarding strengthening CBK, the Government used the FSAC funds to add
staff and training and better computer equipment to its bank's supervision
department. The CBK and the Government then proceeded, as before, to ignore the
department's increased number of findings. The CBR also established reserve
requirements, as stipulated in the FSAC, something which should have caused the
banks to become more sensitive to improving the allocation of credit so as to
maximize profits. However, use of credit ceilings was not discontinued and the
credit ceilings remained binding. This meant that reserve requirements were
superfluous, both as a means of controlling overall credit expansion and as a
means of improving the allocation of credit. As a result, the imposition of
reserve requirements did little more than make the interbank money market more
active although no less uncompetitive.
31.       The Government's implementation of the restructuring or consolidation
of insolvent banks consisted mainty of window-dressing, although progress was
made in reducing the rumber of poor bank managers.   The primary aims of
restructuring should have been to "remonetize" deposits, using the DPE and to
change the lending behavior of the troubled banks, importantly by changing bank
managers or at least managerial behavior. The available evidence suggests that
remonetization of deposits occurred only occasionally, for small depositors. All
large depositors, mostly parastatals, were given equity positions in the newly
created Consolidated Bank.  This essentially formalized the parastatal cash
scarcity problem which had been known about for several years. It forced the
parastatals to lean more heavily on the Government budget and/or to build up more
current liabilities to offset this new equity, the true value which was
completely unknown.
32.       Concerning the banks' bad loans, little was done. There is no evidence
that the Consolidated Bank's lending practices, though severely curtailed, were
much different than those of the banks that it took over. It too was pressured
to keep inefficient parastatals operating, so that it fell prey to the same
"adverse selection" problems which the other banks experienced. In the Kenyan
banking community there is general agreement that the best way to improve bank
balance sheets would be to get good, truly independent bank managers.  The
formation of the Consolidated Bank has reduced the number of weak managers, but
the management of Consolidated Bank is not independent enough to enable it to
foreclose on outstanding bad debt. As a result, several in the banking community
felt that the best role for the Consolidated Bank would be to "eat up" all of the
insolvent banks so as to get rid of bad bank managers and then go out of
business. This would only work, however, if the deposits of the insolvent banks
were remonetized rather than converted to equity.



- 10 -
Did the FSAC Financial Flows Support the Financial Reforms?
33.       The impression gained from the audit mission was that government
officials were more interested in obtaining the Kenya shilling equivalent of the
PSAC and to use it for budgetary or parastatal expenditures, then they were in
the PSAC's financial reform proposals or in the availability of more foreign
exchange for imports. The IDA counterpart funds were automatically passed from
the Central Bank to the fiscal system to help cover an overall public sector
deficit.   That is, the Kenya shilling counterpart funds financed continued
support for an "administered" Government/parastatal sector which the FSAC and
overall adjustment program aimed to reduce in favor of private, market-oriented
activity.   It thus appears that the adjustment money supported what the
adjustment policies aimed to repress. This dilemma was succinctly summed up by
a Mombasa businessman who said, "The informal sectors are growing because Kenyans
don't want to give the overblown and inefficient Government and parastatal
sectors any more money. The World Bank and IMF adjustment policies seem to
support this, but their money does the opposite.  We need the World Bank's
policies but not their money". Bankers simply noted that in a situation where
good lending opportunities are limited, IDA money puts them in an unfavorable
competitive position.
34.       In addition, the establishment of the Monetary Policy Committee
weakened assurances that PSAC money deposited in the General Revenue Fund would
be spent according to the budget. As para. 8 noted, this Committee, chaired by
Kenya's Vice President, had as one of its responsibilities to prevent public
expenditures which were not properly funded.  This weakened Kenya's normal
budgetary process, because civil servants were told that they could spend
according to their budgetary allocation, but were then prevented from doing so
unless their proposed expenditures were "funded". Since budgeted expenditures
significantly exceeded actual funds received by the Government, the Committee had
some discretion over which expenditures to provide or devy funds for. This
increased the chances that arbitrary interventions which a normal budgetary
process is designed to prevent, would occur.
IV. OVERALL ASSESSMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
35.       The FSAC was unsuccessful and unsustainable.  The last of a triad of
adjustment operations aimed at reforming Kenya's economy, it had minimal impact
on both the real and financial sectors. Regarding its policy content, a major
goal of Financial Sector Adjustment Operations (FSAOs), improving the allocation
of formal sector credit, did not occur under the PSAC. One important reason for
this was that the demand for "quality" credit did not expand, primarily because
reforms to the real sector did not take place. However, even if "quality" credit
demand had expanded, it would have been supplied primarily by the informal rather
than  formal  financial  sector.    Policy proposals  in  the  PSAC  aimed  at
reestablishing  confidence  in  Kenya's  financial  system,  consisting  of
strengthening the control of the Central Bank of Kenya and restructuring
insolvent banks were also not effective. Continued Government intervention to
reallocate credit to "adverse" borrowers, coupled with interference to prevent
market determination of interest and exchange rates has hastened the flight from
the formal to the informal financial sector.   The PSAC did have a limited



- 11 -
institutional impact, primarily by improving the Central Bank of Renya's
supervision capabilities and by dismissing a few, poor bank managers during the
consolidation exercise. However, the Government of Kenya's tendency to ignore
the results of these institutional improvements and to continue to interfere with
the independence of bank management, limited the impact of these improvements.
36.       It is also difficult to see how the money disbursed under the FSAC,
ultlmately totalling about US$225 million, including IDA reflows, benefitted the
reform etfort. The Bank's rationale for lending foreign exchange, regardless of
the amount, was to finance foreign debt service and import requirements. This
was of interest to and, therefore, relevant for the (.BK.   However, some
government officials were much more interested in the allocation of the Kenya
shilling countc,part of the FSAC to the budget, particularly as it was
transferred on untargeted, or untied terms. The availability of relatively large
amounts of completely discretionary "public" money essentially enabled the fiscal
authorities to maintain the overblown size and interventionist approach of the
Government, thus running counter to the main liberalization goals of the PSAC and
of IDA's broader adjustment agenda.
V. LESSONS LEARNED
37.       The Kenya FSAC was not much different from other financial sector
adjustment operations by the Bank. For the most part, they have been not very
successful, generally for similar reasons. This operation yields lessons similar
to those learned from others. One is that the preconditions for an FSAO must be
in place before successful changes in the pattern of credit allocation can be
achieved.  Paramount smong these preconditions is an expanding demand for
"quality" credit, or credit derived from improved rates of return to investment
in the productive sector. A second lesson is that unless disbursements of the
foreign exchange lending accompanying FSAOs are closely controlled, they can
offset or contradict the policy aims of the operations.   A third is that
achieving market-determined interest rates requires that the Government operate
in at least one, truly competitive financial market, be it the market for bonds
or foreign currency. A final lesson concerns restructuring banks. The goal of
such exercises is to change Bank lending behavior not to make the balance sheets
of troubled banks look like those of untroubled banks. Changing lending behavior
usually means changing bank managers, perhaps by consolidating many banks under
one good manager, and insuring, through less government intervention, better
supervision and balance sheet restructuring, that the new managers have the
independence to increase "quality" lending and avoid "adverse" lending.
(M)     FSAOs must be placed in a setting of an expanding demand for
"quality" credit or credit which is likely to be repaid because it is based on
investments which can earn relatively high formal sector rates of return. High
formal sector rates of return are likely to occur only after reforms to the real
sector have been undertaken. At the macro level the increase in "quality" credit
is accompanied by more rapid growth in GDP. At the micro level the increase in
"quality" credit improves the balance sheets, really the loan portfolios, of
formal sector financial institutions. Liberalizing, really raising, interest
rates can only improve the overall allocation of credit and yield a strong supply
response when it occurs in the context of expanding demand for "quality" credit.



- 12 -
(ii)    It is very difficult to design a disbursement mechanism for the
lending accompanying PSAOs which does not contradict the alms of the financial
sector refoam policy package and/or unfairly compete againast the financial
institutions which are the object of the reform effort. One way to assure that
disbursements do not run afoul of the reform effort is to target them toward
priority budgetary expenditures for social services andt/or for infrastructure.
(iii)   It is not possible to obtain "market-determined interest rates"
unless the Government purchases after-tax foreign and/or domestic currency
requirements in "private" markets.  In Kenya this would mean the Government
should rescind any and all foreign exchange retention requirements and,
initially, "buy" its currency needs with bonds in the informal market. An
alternative which wou74 allow government retention of some foreign exchange is
for the Government to ell bearer bonds and to honor its obligations no matter
who presents the coupons for collection. Given the size and competitiveness of
Kenya's informal financial market, either of these will enable establishment of
the "correct" or market values for Kenya's exchange and interest rates.
(iv)    Restructuring troubled banks will only contribute to financial
sector reform and growth if the management, or really lending practices of bank
managers, change so as to increase the share of "quality" loans in the banks'
lending portfolios. At the macro level, this involves increasing the demand for
"quality" credit, importantly by real sector reform, and insuring that the
troubled banks have a fair chance of supplying this increased demand. At the
micro level, it involves "remonetizing" deposits, usually from a deposit
insurance fund, and preventing any "adverse" lending behavior. This latter will
usually require a reduction of pernicious official intervention, more Central
Bank supervision and balance sheet restructuring. Restructuring the bank balance
sheets may also involve reforming, restructuring or foreclosing on certain large
debtor enterprises, assuming they have remained unaffected by the general reform
of the real sector.



