Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CGA?                       4? -
Report No. P-5080-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT
TO SDR 92.9 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
MAY 22, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CNR         EQUiVALUTS
Currency Unit - Kenyan Shilling (KSh)
US$ 1.0 = KSh 18.5 (1988)
GOV6HERENT OF RENYA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY AND AIREVIATIONS
AFC         Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASAO        Agricu'ltural Sector Adjustment Operation
CBF         College of Banking and Finance
CBK         Central Bank of Kenya
CIC         Capital Issues Committee
CMDA        Capital Markets Development Authority
DFI         Development Finance Institution
DPF         Deposit Protection Fund
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC        Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSTAC       Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Industrial Development Bank
ISAC        Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
KIE         Kenya Industrial Estates
NBFI        Near-bank Financial Institution
NSE         Nairobi Stock Exchange
NSSF        National Social Security Fund
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAP         Stiuctural Adjustment Facility
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SOB         Statement of Expenditures
SPPF        Special Project Preparation Facility



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRSIDENT'S REPOXTt KEM  FIN CIAL SECTOR ADUIHENT CREDIT
TAUL  OF CONTZTS
CREDIT SUMMARY
PART I.     THE ECONOMY
Basic Structural Characteristics                               1
Past Performance                                               1
Stabilization and Adjustment in the 1980s                      _
PART II.    STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT AND MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS
Government's Adjustment Program and Development
Strategy                                                       3
Stabilization and Fiscal Policy                                4
Structural Adjustment in Key Sectors                           6
Medium Term Prospects                                          6
External Debt                                                  7
Summary                                                        7
PART III.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance of the Financial
System                                                         8
Growth of the Financial System                           8
Trends in Credit                                         9
PART IV.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Introduction                                                   10
Policy Issues                                                  10
Interest Rates, Private Sector Lending
and Monetary Policy                                      10
Capital Markets                                          12
Banking Regulation                                       13
Institutional Reforms                                          14
Prudential Supervision of
Financial Institutions                                   14
Troubled Institutions                                    1S
Training for Banking Professionals                       17
PART V.     THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Origin and Objectives                                          17
Loan Size and Components                                       18
Disbursement and Procurement                                   19
Audits, Reporting and Monitoring                               20
Economic and Social Impact                                     20
Risks                                                          21
PART VI.    BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN KENYA
Bank Experience with Structural Adjustment
Lending                                                        23
Net Resource Transfers                                         24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- ii 
Page
Coordination with the IMF                                     25
Coordination with Other Donors                                25
PART VII.   RECOMMENDATION                                                26
Tables
Table 1: Share of Total Bank and NBFI Assets,
July, 1988                                                    8
Table 2: Troubled Financial Institutions                                  16
Table 3: External Financing Requirements                                  18
Annexes:
Annex l: Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2: Key Finavcial Sector Indicators, 1980-88
Annex 3: Draft Letter of Financial Sector Policy
Annex 4s Financial Sector Policy Matrix
Annex 5 Timetable of Key Loan Processing Events
Annex 6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Kenya
Annex 7s Methodology for Estimating Losses Arising from Liquidation of
Troubled Institutions
Annex 8: Progress under Agricultural and Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credits
Annex 9: Institutional Restructuring Component



IENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUNMMRY
Borrower:    Government of Kenya
Executing Agency:    Central Bank of Kenya
Credit Amount:    IDA: SDR 92.9 million (US$ 120 million equivalent)
Terms:    Standard IDA terms with a 35 year maturity.
Description and
Allocation of
Credit:    The proposed Credit will support wide-ranging policy and
institutional reforms in the financial sector. The policy
reforms, supported by a quick-disbursing component (SDR
61.9 million) to be released in two tranches, include
interest rate liberalization, more active use of
generalized monetary policy instruments, reductions in the
fiscal deficit, revision of banking legislation, improved
prudential supervision of the banking industry and a
strengthening of the regulatory and incentive framework
for capital markets development. The institutional reforms
include the restructuring of troubled banks and near-bank
financial institutions as well as a strengthening of the
Central  Bank's  capacity  to  supervise   depository
institutions. The institutional restructuring component
(SDR 31 million) will aid in recapitalizing financial
institutions and compensating insured depositors and will
be released only as action programs are agreed with IDA
and implemented by the Deposit Protection Fund. The final
SDR 8 million of this component would be disbursed when
interest rates are liberalized. The Credit would finance
general imports based on a negative list.
Benefits and
Risks:    The proposed Credit will  include measures  aimed at
strengthening and deepening Kenya's financial system.
Resource mobilization and allocation will be improved
through appropriate interest rate policies as well as a
reduction in Government's budget deficits and its reliance
on the banking system, thus making way for greater private
sector access to credit. Financial intermediation will
become more efficient by reducing the fragmentation of
credit markets and imposing greater market discipline.
Weaker institutions will be restructured or consolidated
and the scope of financial services and instruments will
be widened. This restructuring, along with an improved
regulatory framework and stronger prudential supervision,
will also help increase confidence in the financial system.
Finally, the use of generalized monetary policy instruments



- iv -
and the development of capital markets *will be important
in supporting Government's trade liberalization and
divestiture efforts.
Successful implementation of the program faces two risks.
First, without fiscal reforms, high and sustained budget
deficits will tend to drive up interest rates and crowd
out the private sector, thus negating most of the program's
intended benefits. Under the agreements reached with IDA
and the IMF in the Policy Framework Paper, Government
intends to reduce budget deficits and rely largely on
nonbank and external concessional sources of finarsce. The
second risk lies in possible political resistance to the
restructuring of troubled institutions. To reduce this
risk, the restructuring will be phasod so as to minimize
disruptions in the financial aystem. Technical assistance,
to be provided through a companion Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Credit, will also help ensure that
restructuring is implemented smoothly and expeditiously.
Estimated
Disbursementss    The proceeds of the quick-disbursing component will be
disbursed in two tranches:   SDR 30 million (USS 38.8
million equivalent) after effectiveness; and SDR 31.9
million (USS 41.2 equivalent) after a performance review
expected to be carried out twelve months after
effectiveness. Of the proceeds earmarked for institutional
restructuring, SDR 23 million (USS 29.7 million equivalent)
will be available after Credit effectiveness and will be
tied to (i) agreement with IDA on a satisfactory action
program for each institution to be restructured; and (ii)
satisfactory documentation that the Deposit Protection Fund
has injected new capital into the institution and/or paid
depositors in line with the agreed program. The remaining
SDR 8 million (USS 10.3 million) will be disbursed when
interest rates are liberalized. The closing date for the
Credit is expected to be September 30, 1991.
Appraisal
Report:    N/A



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.01     I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya to help finance a Financial Sector Adjustment
Program. The proposed development credit for SDR 92.9 million would be on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years.
1.02     An economic report entitled 'Kenya:  Recent Econom'  Developments
and Selected Policy Issues" (Report 7411-KE) was distributed ti the Executive
Directors on September 26, 1988 and a revised Policy Framework Paper for the
period 1989-91 will be discussed by the Bank Board, meeting as a Committee
of the Whole, on May 12, 1989.  Part I of this report summarizes Kenya's
economic situation.  Part II presents Government's adjustment program and
medium-term prospects.   Part III discusses the key  issues  facing the
financial sector and Part IV describes the proposed financial sector
adjustment program. Part V provides details on the proposed credit. Finally,
Part VI describes the Bank's strategy and experience in Kenya.   Basic
economic data is presented in Annex 1.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Basic Structural Characteristics
1.03     In 1987 Kenya had a per capita income of US$ 330, which places it
toward the upper end of the rar.ge of low-income countries. Social indicators
are better than for most African countries in the same income category.
Agriculture is the leading productive sector of the economy, generating 27
percent of GDP and employing about 80 percent of the labor force. The sector
is well-diversified, producing coffee, tea and horticultural crops for export
(accounting for over half of merchandise exports) and maize, pulses, sugar
and livestock products for the domestic market. Kenya's industrial sector,
among the largest in Sub-Saharan Africa, accounts for about 16 percent of GDP
and 7 percent of employment. Finally, the service sector accounts for about
43 percent of GDP and includes tou:ism, which became Kenya's largest single
foreign exchange earner in 1987.
Past Performance
1.04     Kenya's economic performance since Independence falls into four
distinct phases: a decade of rapid growth (1963-73), fueled by favorable
weather, rising agricultural incomes and the establishment of industries for
import-substitution and the East African Community; a period of decelerating
growth (1974-79), punctuated by the two oil crises and a coffee boom; a
period of macroeconomic imbalance and stabilization (1980-85), with low
growth; and finally, beginning in 1985, a period of renewed growth. Despite
the restoration of growth over the past four years, Kenya still faces the
difficult task of reducing domestic imbalances, especially the deterioration
of fiscal discipline following the 1984 drought and the 1986 coffee boom.
In order to sustain the revival in economic growth and generate productive



- 2 -
employment for the country's rapidly growing labor force. Government has
recognized that stabilization measures need to be supported by a continuation
and deepening of structural adjustment efforts in key sectors.
1.05     During the first decade after Independence, GDP grew rapidly at an
annual average rate of 6.6 percent in real terms and the average rate of
inflation was kept below 4 percent. Impressive growth in agriculture and
manufacturing was stimulated by increased smallholder cultivation, the
adoption of better production techniques, implementation of an import-
substitution strategy for industrial development, with high protection for
domestic firms, a liberal foreign investment policy, Government investments
in industry and continued access to East African Community markets.
Following the first oil crisis, however, economic growth decelerated to about
5 percent per annum.   This slowdown in growth arose because of:  (i) a
deterioration in the terms of trade; (ii) poor weather conditions; (iii)
constraints on industrialization through import substitution; and (iii)
inappropriate Government policies which reduced growth in agriculture and
industry.
Stabilization and Adiustment in the 1980s
1.06     In  the  early  1980s,  severe  internal  and  external  imbalances
developed and stabilization became necessary. In 1981, the current account
deficit (including grants) amounted to 11.1 percent of GDP, the money supply
grew at 15 percent and inflation reached 13 percent. By FY81, the budget
deficit had reached 9.5 percent of GDP (10.2 excluding grants) and was
largely financed by Government borrowing from the banking sector.   These
imbalances arose because of: (i) erosion in fiscal d'scipline; (ii) failure
to sterilize the increase in the money supply, creating a liquidity overhang
for several yeaxs; and (iii) a sharper than expected deterioration in the
terms of trade .f:er the 1979 oil crisis.   The political uncertainty
following the attempted coup in 1982 exacerbated these imbalances, generating
significant capital flight and turbulence in financial markets. In order to
restore macroeconomic stability, Government in late 1982 embarked on a
stabilization program supported by a stand-by arrangement with the IDF.
Government devalued the currency and continued to manage the exchange rate
flexibly, set limits on credit expansion, reduced the budget deficit,
temporarily restricted imports, and allowed real wages to fall.  Nominal
interest rates were Adjusted, and with the fall in inflation in 1983, turned
positive in real terms for the first time in nearly a decade. Consequently,
by FY84 the budget deficit declined to 3.9 percent of GDP (4.6 percent
excluding grants), and in 1984 the current account deficit (including grants)
dropped to 2 percent of GDP and inflation to 9 percent.
1.07     Although stabilization efforts were successful, little progress was
achieved in addressing structural adjustment issues, especially in the key
sectors of agriculture and industry. Growth decelerated further during the
early 1980s, averaging less than 3 percent annually during 1980-85, leading
to  a  sustained  fall  in  real  per  capita  incomes.    In  agriculture,
inappropriate pricing and input supply policies, as well as inefficient
marketing arrangements began to take their toll and land yields stagnated.
In industry, the incentives favored the domestic market more than exports,
resulting  in  an  increasingly  inward-looking  sector  with  declining



opportunities for effic'ent import substitution, while the collapse of the
East Africa Community exacerbated the stagnation of manufactured exports.
1.08     During the period 1985-87, a combination of favorable weather,
improved agricultural policies and a mini coffee boom contributed to a marked
recovery in economic growth.   Real GDP averaged growth of 5.3 percent
annually during 1985-87. At the same time, however, Kenya's fiscal position
weakened considerably. The overall cash deficit increased from 3.9 percent
of GDP in FY84 (4.6 excluding grants) to 7.6 percent by FY87 (8.9 excluding
grants). Domestic financing of the deficit was equivalent to 7.1 percent of
GDP in FY87, with 4.8 percent coming from the banking sector. A number of
exceptional circumstances contributed to the rise in spending, including a
severe drought in 1984, additional financing required by NCPB to procure
surplus maize in 1985, Kenya's hosting of the All-Africa Games, and increases
in civil service wages. Nonetheless,  major structural  .. tors have also
fueled the rapid rise in recurrent expenditures, particularly employment
growth in the Central Government and the recruitment of teachers by the
Teachers' Services Commission (TSC). The rapid growth in employment has not
ovly added considerable pressure to the level of expenditures, and hence the
deficit, but has also affected the efficiency of public spending. Personnel
expenditures continue to claim a large share of recurrent spending at the
expense of allocations for nonwage operations and maintenance expenditures.
The worsening balance between wage and nonwage recurrent spending is having
a negative impact on the efficiency with which Government can deliver
essential services, such as health, education, and agricultural extension,
and its ability to maintU'n economic infrastructure.
1.09     Expansionary fiscal policies combined with the coffee boom in 1986
increased aggregate demand pressu es in the economy. High coffee prices and
low oil prices helped improve Kenya's external terms of trade in 1986, the
current account deficit (including grants) was reduced to less than one
percent of GDP while the overall balance of payments recorded a surplus.
Although the real effective exchange rate was depreciated by 13 percent and
inflation remained low, the money supply and domestic credit grew rapidly.
Without market-determined interest rates or appropriate monetary policy
instruments, Government was unable to soak up the excess liquidity, and the
money supply increased by 33 percent in 1986 and 11 percent in 1987.
Moreover, the coffee boom was short-lived and Kenya's external terms of trade
reversed sharply in 1987. The domestic liquidity overhang remained, however,
putting pressure on the demand for imports and foreign exchange reserves,
despite a gradual and continuing depreciation of the exchange rate.
II - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT AND MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS
2.01     Government's Adjustment Program and Development Strategy.  Kenya's
development strategy for the remainder of this century is articulated in
Government's 1966 Sessional Paper on Economic Management for Renewed Growth.
The paper recognizes that providing productive employment for a labor force
which is expected to increase by 86 percent between 1985 and the year 2000
will require sustained economic growth above 5 p(rcent.   Government's
objectives include strong agricultural growth, a large and vigorous rural



- 4 -
non-fanm informal sector based on strong linkages to agriculture and
industry, and a restructured and efficient manufacturing sector, which
together with agriculture and tourism, will generate the foreign exchange
needed to support growth without excessive reliance on external assistance.
In trade policy, more liberal import licensing, lower and more uniform
tariffs, and the maintenance of a competitive exchange rate are expected to
encourage exports and promote greater efficiency. The paper stresses the
dominant role of the private sector and the need for Government to establish
market incentives to promote efficient private sector activity. Government
also intends to reduce the budget deficit in order to control inflation and
avoid crowding out the private sector. In the financial sector, the paper
stresses the need to maintain positive real rates of interest for savings and
lending, moving toward greater market determination of interest rates, and
the stimulation of broader markets in government securities.   It also
proposes a gradual move toward universal banking and the development of
private money and capital markets.
2.02     As part of this strategy, Government began in late 1986 to implement
a major stabilization and adjustment program supported by IDA and the IMF.
IDA is supporting the program through an Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (ASAO) approved in 1986, the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
(ISAC) approved in 1988, and the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC). The program is also being backed by the IMF through a three-year
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved on May 15, 1989,
which replaced an 18-month Stand-by arrangement and a three-year Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF), both of which became effective on February 1,
1988. As reflected in the current second year Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
covering the period 1989-91, Government intends to provide a favorable and
balanced macroeconomic environment by controlling the growth of public
spending,   limiting  inflationary  pressures,  and  removing  structural
constraints to economic growth. In line with these objectives, Government
will: (i) reduce the budget deficit so it is compatible with available
conceasional foreign financing and noninflationary domestic financing, and
does not crowd out the private sector; (ii) implement a budget
rationalization program; (iii) limit the use of nonconcessional sources of
external finance and increase reliance on .oncessional finance from official
sources; (iv) rely more on market forces to allocate financial resources
while stimulating the development of money and capital markets; (v) reorient
trade and other industrial incentives to encourage increased efficiency,
promote the growth of manufactured exports, and boost investment; (vi)
continue to adjust the exchange rate, in tandem with changes in the trade
regime; and (vii) improve incentives to farmers, and increase the efficiency
of agricultural input supply and marketing and the provision of agricultural
services, particularly for smallholders.
2.03     Stabilization and Fiscal Policy.  During the first half of 1988,
considerable progress was made in implementing the stabilization program. The
FY88 budget deficit was reduced to 4.0 percent of GDP (6.1 percent excluding
grants) compared to 7.6 percent in FY87 (8.9 percent excluding grants), and
met the targets agreed with the IMP as part of the SAP and Stand-by
arrangements. Part of the fiscal adjustment, however, resulted from a delay
in effecting some payments toward the end of the fiscal year so that
considerable expenditure pressures remained in FY89.  Net bank credit to



-5-
Government was slightly reduced, as it shifted all domestic public financing
to the non-bank sector, largely by issuing medium-term Treasury bonds.  The
increase in broad money in FY88 was only about one-fifth the rate of
expansion the previous year.  GDP growth for 1988 is expected to be 4.9
percent while inflation is likely to rise to 10.4 percent.   The current
account deficit is expected to fall to 4.5 percent of GDP (7.7 percent
excluding grants) in 1988 compared to 6.0 percent (8.0 percent excluding
grants) in 1987.
2.04     As part of its medium-term stabilization program, Government intends
to reduce the overall budgetary deficit to a more sustainable level that does
not crowd out the private sector. As spelled out in the Policy Framework
Paper (PFP), the Central Government's overall cash deficit will be steadily
reduced from 4.5 percent of GDP in FY89 (6.9 percent excluding grants) to 4.2
percent in FY90 (6.7 percent excluding grants) and to a more sustainable
level, presently estimated at about 3.2 percent of GDP by FY92 (5.7 percent
excluding grants). Government aims at sharply reducing domestic financing
of the deficit by FY92, with virtually all domestic bank credit being
channeled to the private sector.
2.05     To meet the deficit reduction objective, revenue collection will be
increased from 23.2 percent of GDP in FY88 to 24.5 percent by FY92. In the
FY89 budget, tax revenue has been increased by introducing and revising
existing regulations on sales tax, excise tariffs, and passenger service
caarges, tariffs, and trade licensing.  These measures are anticipated to
increase revenue collection to 23.8 percent of GDP.  Additional revenue
measures, in taxation and user charge fees, will be taken in the next three
budgets to attain and maintain the revenue target. Regarding user charges,
Government envisages that a rising share of recurrent expenditures will be
financed through user charges for health, education and other public
services.    Substantial progress has already been made  in agriculture
(especially livestock) and transport (roads). In the FY90 budget, Government
intends to introduce user charges in health, education and other sectors.
Structural reforms in taxation policy will also be implemented to broaden the
tax base and increase the elasticity of the tax system.   Government has
decided to replace the sales tax with a value added tax.  The necessary
studies are under way with technical assistance from bilateral sources so
that implementation of this change can commence with the FY90 budget. The
institutional capacity for tax policy analysis in the Treasury will also be
strengthened, and computerization and other administrative improvements will
be introduced in the Income Tax, Sales Tax, and Customs and Excise
Departments.
2.06     On the expenditure  side, Government will reduce its claim  on
available resources and restructure the composition of expenditure to make
it more efficient. To help correct the prevailing imbalance between wage and
nonwage current expenditure, Govetament has introduced ceilings on salaries
in the three-year Forward Budget, which will decelerate the growth of Central
Government employment to 2 percent annually (compared to 4.2 percent between
1981 and 1987) and the growth of TSC employment to 5 percent (compared to 7.7
percent between 1981 and 1987). Over the medium-term (1989-91), average
wages will rise only as a result of normal annual increments and promotions
C the anticipated salary creep is about 4 percent annually). Government has



- 6 -
already announced that goverment employment is not guaranteed to university
graduates. The rate of hiring at the lower grades (A-F) and the intake of
pre-service trainees into the civil service will be reduced sharply, vhile
pre-service training allowances will be reviewed and training institutions
will be reoriented gradually toward in-service training.   Government has
recently raised rents charged to civil servants living in government-owned
housing, and will continue to rationalize housing benefits over the medium
term, with the ultimate objective of abolishing these benefits by integrating
them with salaries. Additionally, over the next three years Government will
steadily increase, in real terms, nonwage operating and maintenance
expenditures in priority areas, including education, health, agricultural
services, road maintenance, and water supply.
2.07     Structural Adjustment in Key Sectors.   To sustain the recent
economic recovery, Government recognizes that in addition to correcting the
macroeconomic imbalances that emerged in 1985, it will need to deepen and
expand the structural adjustment efforts initiated in 1986. Reforms in these
two sectors have aimed, inter alia, at enhancing the role and efficiency of
the private sector, improving incentives, and reducing controls and excessive
government intervention.   Progress in implementing the agriculture and
industrial sector adjustment programs has generally been satisfactory, albeit
with some delays in the areas of parastatal restructuring in agriculture and
import liberalization. 11 The proposed financial sector reform program is
a major component nf Government's medium-term adjustment efforts.   It
complements the adjustment programs in agriculture and industry and is a
logical extension of the financial sector reforms introduced since 1984
(para. 4.03), as well as measures to improve the efficiency of financial
markets and monetary policy included in the ongoing industrial sector
adjustment program (para. 6.07). A deeper aad more market-oriented financial
sector along with the freeing of interest rates and removal of credit
controls will increase the efficiency of private investment and stimulate
savings. The proposed reform program will also provide Government with a
broader and more market-oriented range of monetary policy instruments for
aggregate demand management.   Institutional support to the Central Bank,
restructuring of troubled financial institutions and measures to develop
capital market-, aim at strengthening and enhancing private sector competition
in the Kenyan financial system.
2.08     Medium-Term Prospects.    Because past policies have been more
favorable to economic growth in Kenya than in most low-income African
countries, the planned adjustment measures will have a gradual rather than
a dramatic impact on economic structure and performance over the medium term.
Nonetheless, stabilization combined with continuing progress in sector
adjustment would set the stage for sustained annual economic growth of about
5.2 percent over the medium and long term. Agricultural growth is expected
to average 4.0 percent in real terms while the industrial sector would
average real growth of 5.; percent per annum during 1987-92 (Annex 1). These
rates of growth would arise primarily from improved efficiency of investment,
due to appropriate macroeconomic policies and the implementation of incentive
1| The Bank's experience with these progrsms is reviewed in Part VI of
this report.



reforms in key sectors. Merchandise exports are projected to grow annually
at an average rate of 4.4 percent in real terms during 1987-92, with real
growth in manufactured exports averaging 5.7 percent per annum, in line with
growth in the manufacturing sector as a whole. Coffee and tea exports, which
will continue to account for close to one-half of Kenya's exports, are
projected to grow at annual rates of 2.6 and 5.7 percent respectively in real
terms, as Kenya continues to benefit from a somewhat better market for
arabica coffee and a quality premium for its tea. Failure to stabilize the
domestic economy and deepen the adjustment process would reduce Kenya's GDP
growth considerably below the 5 percent required to absorb its re-Idly
expanding labor force and would imply an extended period of sustained deo._lne
in per capita incomes.
2.09     External Debt.  Kenya remains high on the priority list of major
donors and most of Kenya's debt is from official sources.  Total external
debt amounted to USS 5.4 billion at the end of 1987, equivalent to 67 percent
of GDP; multilateral and donor government sources accounted for 38 and 31
percent, respectively, of the total (Annex 1). Although most of Kenya"s debt
is from official creditors, Government resorted to commercial borrowing in
the early 19809. This increased reliance on commercial borrowing, coupled
with lower export receipts, has led to a sharp rise in the debt service
ratio.  The debt-service ratio for public long-term debt (including the IMF)
increased from 11.2 percent in 1980 to 39.8 percent in 1987. Given this high
debt burden and Government's  determination to avoid recourse  to debt
rescheduling, Kenya will need to limit new non-concessional external debt
over the medium term.  Provided Government limits external borrowing from
non-concessionary sources, Kenya can continue to meet its external debt
obligations with a gradual reduction in its debt service ratio. Assuming
that future financing gaps are filled through additional concessional
assistance, Kenya's debt-service ratio would fall gradually to about 25
percent by 1992.
2.10     Summary.  Kenya's program of structural reform merits continued
support from IDA as proposed under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
Government has set out a satisfactory medium-term policy framework in the
PFP, which covers both stabilization measures and sectoral adjustment issues.
Moreover, Government's policies since 1987 demonstrate its commitment to the
overall adjustment program. It has met fiscal, monetary and exchange rate
targets specified under the IMF Stand-by arrangement and SAF.  Although
progress on trade liberalization has been slower than anticipated, reforms
have been implemented on or ahead of schedule in several other areas of
industrial policy, including tariff rationalization, price decontrol and
improved investment incentives. On trade liberalization, Government remains
committed, as reflected in the PFP, to removing quantitative restrictions on
imports in the period 1990-91 and to lowering protection for domestic
industry in 1991-93. Important reforms have also been initiated through the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation and further policy changes in this
sector are being discussed with IDA.   As is evident from recent policy
changes, Government is also committed to financial sector reform.  It has
begun to rationalize the interest rate structure by raising the maximum rate
for long-term commercial bank lending, strengthened the banking supervision
powers and capabilities of the Central Bank and introduced mechanisms to
support the development of mcney and capital markets. Finally, the scope and



- 8 -
pace of the financial sector reforms are considered to be appropriate. The
staff of the Central Bank has played a substantial role in designing this
reform program and its implementation will be supported with technical
assistance.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance of the Financial System
3.01     Kenya has one of the most diverse and dynamic financial systems in
Sub-Saharan Africa. The banking and near-banking system includes the Central
Bank of Kenya (CBK), 24 commercial banks and 50 near-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs).  Ten of the NBFIs are affiliated with commercial banks.
Kenya also has a stock exchange, 32 building societies (although only a
handful are sizeable or active), 53 insurance companies, 10 development
finance institutions (DFIs), a large Post Office Savings Bank -network and
numerous savings and credit societies, pension plans and other financial
institutions. As shown in Table 1 below, private sector institutions account
for the largest share of banking and near-banking assets, and foreign-owned
institutions also play a significant role, particularly in commercial
banking.   Four large institutions,  of which two are Government-owned,
dominate the sector.
Table 1: SHARE OF TOTAL BANK AND NBFI ASSETS (July 1988)
(KSh million)
Commercial                           Percent of
Ownership             Banks       NBFIs       Total        Total
Government             18,363    4,281       22,644         29.6
Private Kenyan          6,374   13.442       19,816         25.9
Joint                  11,861    3,492       15,353         20.1
Foreign                15,963    2,703       18,666         24.4
Total                  52,561   23,918       76,479       100.0
Percent of
Total                    68.7       31.3      100.0
3.02     Growth of the Financial System.   Kenya's financial system has
experienced relatively rapid growth since 1980, with the number of banks,
NBFls and building societies steadily increasing. Much of this growth has
occurred in the indigenous sector and amongst NBFIs and building societies
because of anomalies in the banking law making it easier to establish such
institutions. Although NBFIs were initially created to provide specialized
financial services (merchant banking, leasing, hire purchase, etc.), these
regulatory differences enabled commercial banks to set up NBFIs to circumvent
restrictions on commercial bank activities and interest rate ceilings.
Consequently, the distinction between commercial bank and NBFI activities
began to blur over time and competition among the middle and lower tier



- 9 -
institutions began to intensify. In order to continue to grow, many of the
weaker institutions have sought out new business more aggressively and taken
additional credit risks, mismatched maturities, and shaved margins.   In
concrast, the four largest banks operate as a 'gentleman'c club", retaining
strong ties to multinational and blue chip companies and remaining
conservative in their lending practices. Thus, credit markets have become
segmented by risk category with the smaller institutions that are least able
to evaluate and control risks assuming the riskiest portfolios.
3.03     NBFTs initially increased their share of total assets more rapidly
than the commercial banks, moving from 29 percent in 1980 to 34 percent by
1985.  In 1985-86, however, four indigenous banking groups failed, all of
which owned prominent NBFIs and/or building societies. After these failures,
depositors rapidly moved their funds back to commercial banks, particularly
the four largest banks. By 1988, the big four commercial banks accounted for
45 percent of commercial bank and NBFI assets, and the share held by all
commercial banks had increased to 69 percent. In real terms, total financial
assets have increased on average by about 6 percent per annum since 1980,
although year-to-year figures have fluctuated widely.
3.04     Financial depth, as measured by the ratio of broad money to GDP has
averaged about 27 percent between 1980 and 1988.   This ratio declined
steadily between 1980 and 1985 because of political unrest (1982), negative
real rates of interest on savings (until 1984) and recession (1984-85).
Broad money then increased rapidly in 1986 and 1987. Gross domestic savings
rates have averaged about 21 percent since 1980. The composition of deposits
has altered since 1980, with the share of demand deposits falling
significantly due to positive real rates that emerged in 1984 as inflation
declined.   Insurance companies,  pension plans and the National Social
Security Fund (NSSF) are also important holders of financial assets, but much
of their portfolio is dedicated to Government securities becaukse of
legislated investment guidelines and a dearth of other investment
alternatives. Although financial depth and savings rates are about average
for a country of Kenya's income level, it will need to mobilize more
resources and allocate them more efficiently in order to meet its growth
objectives.
3.05     Trends in Credit.   Total credit extended by the banking sector,
including the Central Bank and all depository institutions, grew from KSh
16.9 billion in 1981 to KSh 93.5 billion in 1987.   Net domestic credit
increased from 23 percent of GDP in 1983 to 37 percent in 1987. Much of this
recent growth in credit has been fueled by increased public sector borrowing.
Government's share of domestic credit (including parastatals) increased
steadily from 38 percent in 1983 to 48 percent in 1987, despite efforts by
the Central Bank to rely increasingly on non-bank sources of domestic finance
for the widening public deficits. Government has used a variety of avenues
for financing these deficits, including liquidity requirements for commercial
banks and NBFIs (20 and 24 percent, respectively, of total deposits),
restrictions on the investments of insurance companies and use of moral
suasion with the NSSF. Although private investment levels have recovered
slightly in recent years, further increases in the level and efficiency of
private investment will be necessary to sustain GDP growth of 5 percent or
higher as projected by Government in its Sessional Paper.   At present,



- 10 -
private savings are financing not only public and private investment but
Government consumption as well. If continued, this large claim on private
sector resources will effectively limit the scope for a sustained recovery
in private capital formation, particularly in light of Kenya's already high
external debt-service ratio.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
4.01     The proposed Credit will support both policy and institutional
reforms in Kenya's financial system and is a critical ingredient in Kenya's
structural adjustment program as detailed in the current PFP. These reforms
are designed to make Kenya's financial system more efficient and market-
oriented, thereby enabling it to support the increased investment required
to meet its economic growth objectives. These actions would lead to more
even competition within the system between stronger institutions, an
increased breadth of financial instruments and greater flexibility in the
"-icing of financial services. More credit is also expected to be available
to the private sector as Government reduces its budget deficit and its
reliance on domestic credit. The reform program will also provide Government
with a greater range of instruments with which to manage domestic demand
through  the  development of open market operations.   The policy  and
institutional reforms to be undertaken are spelled out in  Government's
letter of Financial Sector Policy (Annex 3) and the policy matrix (Annex 4).
On the policy front, Government will take steps to rationalize and liberalize
interest rates, activate monetary policy instruments, improve the regulatory
framework for banks and other depository institutions, and stimulate the
development of capital markets.   Moreover, because of the importance of
fiscal reform and overall macroeconomic stability to the success of financial
sector reform, the proposed Credit will link first and second tranche release
to satisfactory agreement on, and performance against, fiscal targets for
fiscal years 1989-91 under the PFP (paras. 2.04-2.06). On the institutional
front, the Central Bank is strengthe-4ng its prudential supervision
capabilities, and developing specific rescructuring programs for weak and
insolvent financial institutions which will be implemented as part of the
program.  Finally, a Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit (FSTAC)
will provide technical assistance to the Central Bank and will support the
development of a strong cadre of Central Bank and other banking professionals
in Kenya by helping to establish a College of Banking and Finance.
Policy Issues
4.02     Interest Rates, Private Sector Lending and Monetary Policy.  Given
Kenya's relatively high dependence on primary commodity exports, sudden
changes in its terms of trade and foreign reserve levels can have
destabilizing effects on the domestic economy. During the last two coffee
booms, Government allowed both foreign reserves and public expenditures to
rise simultaneously. The increase in reserves fed quickly into growth in the
money supply and incomes. When reserves subsequently fell, the money supply
continued to grow to support the higher level of public expenditures and the



- 11 -
ensuing fiscal deficit, thereby encouraging import demand. Government then
resorted to temporary import and credit controls to stabilize its foreign
reserves position and to dampen domestic demand. Experience suggests that
fiscal policy, as applied in Kenya during the past two booms, lacks the
flexibility and responsiveness to effectively regulate domestic demand. A
market-driven interest rate structure and a wider array of monetary policy
instruments are necessary to better manage aggregate demand, stabilize
external shocks and complement fiscal policy.
4.03     Commercial bank lending to the private sector has concentrated on
trade, manufacturing and large-scale agriculture, while NBFIs have lent
resources primarily to these and the construction sectors. Although data on
the term structure of lending is lacking, discussions with bankers indicate
that most commercial bank lending is on an overdraft basis and heavily
collateralized.  While NBFIs have ventured furthb;r into medium-term lending
(S--5 year maturities) than commercial banks, they have shortened the
maturities of their loans in recent years as capital requirements have become
more onerous and their ability to charge very high effective rates of
interest on loans was curtailed. The interest rate regime that prevailed
until April 1989 capped commercial bank lending rates at 15 percent and NBFI
rates at 18 percent, and deterred financial institutions from extending loan
maturities or broadening their base of clients to include new borrowers or
emerging enterprises.   This differentiation of interest  rates between
commercial banks and NBFIs also exacerbated the fragmentation of credit
markets between these two classes of institutions.  Government has largely
avoided the use of allocative controls on credit, such as directed credit
schemes and preferential lending rates, and has been mov!ng steadily toward
a more open and market-driven financial system during the past few years.
Government securities are now openly auctioned and a secondary market is
developing. Lending and savings rates have been positive in real terms since
1984. Nominal spreads for commercial banks between minimum savings rates and
maximum lending rates have increased from 3 to 5 percent, providing greater
latitude for term transformation and pricing loans for risk. In addition,
the maximum lending rate for NBFIs was lowered by one percentage point,
thereby beginning the harmonization of interest rates across institutions.
4.04     Under the proposed program, Government is committed to maintaining
positive real interest rates for savings and lending. Government intends to
liberalize all remaining administered interest rates (maximum lending rates
for commercial banks and NBFIs as well as minimum savings deposit rates) by
June 1991. As an interim measure toward full liberalization, Government has
increased the maximum lending rate for commercial bank loans with maturities
greater than four years to 18 percent, thus bringing their structure closer
to that for NBFIs. By June 1990, Government will review experience with
generalized monetary policy instruments and agree with IDA on further steps
to establish a more market-driven interest rate structure.   With the
introduction of the auction for Government securities, Government's cost of
domestic  borrowing has  been  increasing.    Nonetheless,  Government has
continued to lend to some parastatals at below market rates. From June 1989,
Government intends to charge parastatals market equivalent rates on local
currency loans thus ensuring that financing cost subsidies are more
transparent.



- 12 -
4.05     At present,  Government continues  to rely primarily on credit
ceilings on private sector credit for monetary control. This form of control
has several shortcomings, including: (i) the inability to smooth short-term
interest rate volatility, particularly within the interbank market; (ii)
diminished competition between banks, as the credit ceilings are set on an
historical institution-by-institution basis; and (iii) credit can continue
to grow in sectors not governed by the ceilings, i.e., NBFIs. Government
intends to move toward the use of reserve money management and open market
operations and has already introduced an aaction for Treasury bills and
bonds, imposed a cash ratio on commercial banks (six percent of total
deposits) and set up a refinance facility in the Central Bank. Ultimately,
it hopes to remove credit ceilings, once it has established more effective
control over reserve money. Central to the success of implementing open
market operations, however, will be the liberalization of interest rates as
noted above in para. 4.04.
4.06     Government recognizes that successful implementation of its trade
liberalization, stabilization and sector adjustment programs requires the use
of more indirect, generalized monetary policy instruments for managing
domestic demand and external balance. Moving toward reserve money management
will require the establishment of a system for estimating changes in reserve
money, determining monetary growth targets and having the appropriate
instruments to counteract deviations from these targets. The Central Bank
is beginning to implement this monetary programming exercise in close
collaboration with the Treasury and with the assistance of an advisor from
the IMP.   The Monetary Policy Committee is meeting regularly and has
activated the use of monetary policy instruments appropriate to meeting the
agreed targets for monetary growth.   At the same time,  Government is
strengthening the tendering mechanism for Treasury bills and bonds.  The
measures to be taken include eliminating sales of securities outside the
tender, publishing data on tender results at the close of the tender, making
Treasury bills bearer instruments and improving coordination between Treasury
and the Central Bank on monetary conditions. These actions will make the
tendering mechanism more market-oriented and transparent.  It is expected
that the use of open market operations in Kenya will largely rest on primary
market interventions in the near term.   To stimulate the development of
secondary markets, the Central Bank is expected to convert part of the
existing Government debt into Treasury bills as a trading portfolio. It also
plans to improve the refinance facility at the Central Bank. Although this
facility works relatively well at present, it can be used more flexibly to
support monetary policy objectives by varying the discount rate as
appropriate, broadening the definition of eligible paper to include
nongovernment paper, and developing eligibility guidelines for instruments
to be rediscounted.   These measures are also expected to encourage the
development of private money markets.
4.07     Capital Markets.   Capital markets  in Kenya remain relatively
inactive, despite the size and diversity of the financial sector.   Five
corporate debt instruments and sixty-three stocks (57 companies) are
currently  listed  on  the  Nairobi  Stock  Exchange  (NSE),  with  market
capitalization totalling about KSh 7 billion. Turnover is low at about 5000-
6000 shares per year.   Companies on the NSE are predominantly those
established before 1965 with 30 percent being controlled by overseas



- 13 -
shareholders. In the last four years, three primary and two secondary issues
have come to market, all of which have been heavily over-subscribed.
4.08     Several regulatory, fiscal and institutional factors limit increased
activity in securities markets. Until recently, the Capital Issues Committee
(CIC), composed of Central Bank and Treasury officials, has played a dominant
role in determining the price, timing and quantity of public issues. Their
lengthy deliberations and proclivity to price below the market has
discouraged potential issuers from going public. The tax treatment of equity
instruments is also less favorable than it is for debt. Taxes on securities
transactions and dividends, and the absence of deductions for capital losses,
underwriting expenses and other business expenses effectively raise the cost
of equity relative to debt.  The extent of preemptive rights of existing
shareholders and limitations on repatriation of capital gains provide further
disincentives for issuing equity shares. Moreover, because of the low level
of activity in securities markets, few institutions and individuals issue and
trade securities.
4.09     Government is taking a number of steps to stimulate the development
of securities markets, ..'cognizing the role capital markets play in improving
resource allocation, enhancing financial stability, broadening ownership of
assets and facilitating the divestiture of selected government enterprises.
The withholding tax on dividends has been removed and the CIC has reduced the
time it takes to process new issue proposals. CIC's role in influencing the
timing, price and quantity of share issues will be removed by mid-1989 under
the ISAC.   A Capital Markets Development Advisory Council, composed of
private sector and Government representatives, has been appointed to draft
enabling legislation for the Capital Markets Development Authority (CMDA) and
its work program for the next six months has been agreed. Once established,
CMDA will play an important role in promoting the development of capital
markets and will be responsible for identifying and redressing the financial,
fiscal, regulatory and legal impediments to securities market development.
Among the early priorities of the Council and the CMDA will be a review of
the taxation of financial instruments and the formulation of an appropriate
regulatory framework for the securities industry, with particular attention
to the operations of the stock exchange and investor protection legislation.
By June 1990, Government and IDA will agree on the appropriate form of
taxation on financial instruments.   By that time, Government will also
implement satisfactory investor protection measures.   USAID is providing
technical assistance to the Council and CMDA in these and other tasks.
4.10     Banking Regulation.       While a nucleus of well managed banks,
building societies and NBFIs exists and accounts for the largest share of the
banking sector, as many as 28 institutions are experiencing serious financial
difficulties. Low entry barriers designed to promote indigenous institutions
resulted in a rapid increase in the number of new financial institutions
since 1980.  However, many of the newer institutions lacked sufficient
capital and professionally qualified staff to operate effectively and have
quickly run through their capital and depositors' funds by making bad loans
(often to themselves or associated companies), operating on inadequate
spreads and mismatching resources. Many building societies in Kenya are also
experiencing serious difficulties and are in effect winding down as deposits
are exhausted. As with the NBFIs, a lax regulatory environment led to rapid



- 14 -
growth of these institutions, which operate similarly to the British mutual
societies.   Until 1987, building societies were neither regulated nor
licensed by the Central Bank. The rapid proliferation of institutions has
quickly outstripped the ability of the Central Bank to monitor and regulate
their activities.    Thus,  instead of broadening  scope  and  increasing
competition in the financial system, as had been intended by easing entry,
these weaker institutions have destabilized the market, driving depositors
back to the four major institutions. After the banking failures in 1985-86,
Government began to amend the banking law to narrow the gap between classes
of institutions, impose more stringent licensing requirements on banks and
NBFIs, increase minimum capital requirements, establish a Deposit Protection
Fund (DPF), bring the building societies under the supervisory control of the
Central Bank, enable the Central Bank to set guidelines for loan provisioning
and minimum financial disclosure requirements, and increase penalties for
violations of the Banking Act.
4.11     Government has recognized that a number of regulatory reforms are
necessary to strengthen confidence in the banking system, improve efficiency
of financial intermediation and foster financial prudence and discipline.
Although Government has made important amendments to the banking legislation
in recent years, additional regulatory reforms are necessary, particularly
to enable the Central Bank to intervene expeditiously in troubled
institutions and thus prevent undue instability. Redrafting of the Banking
Act, now underway, is expected to be complete by June 1989, and Government
expects to table the revised Banking Bill by July 1989. A preliminary draft
of the new Banking Bill has been reviewed by IDA staff and found
satisfactory.   The draft Bill includes considerable enhancement of the
Central Bank's ability to inspect institutions, set out reporting, audit and
provision requirements, intervene in troubled institutions, establish
appropriate capital adequacy requirements and exposure limits (including
advances to directors and associated companies), limit the payment of
dividends, and assess penalties against institutions that fail to meet
Banking Act requirements. It also sets out the criteria and regulations for
the establishment of mortgage finance companies, vhich will be subject to the
same regulations as NBFIs.   The revised Bill also strengthens the legal
framework for the Deposit Protection Fund. In addition, by June 1990, the
Central Bank will issue regulations that link capital adequacy requirements
to assets (net of provisions, depreciation and writeoffs) and require banks
and NBFIs to maintain capital of at least 7.5 percent of assets, including
off-balance sheet items.
Institutional Reforms
4.12     Prudential Supervision of Financial Institutions.  Until the early
1980s, the Central Bank focused largely on setting interest rates and
gathering data for national statistics. Extensive prudential supervision was
not cost effective, since the depository institutions were primarily branches
of large foreign banks with rigorous internal controls and well-trained
professionals, and thus could be relied on largely to police themselves.
When the number of depository institutions began to expand rapidly, the
supervisory role and capability of the Central Bank did not expand
commensurately. Thus, despite high quality management and staff within the
Central Bank's supervision department, its effectiveness has been severely



- 15 -
limited by staffing constraints and inadequate information systems. This
weakness became particularly apparent after the failure of four banking
groups in 1985-86. Many banks had not been inspected in years and weaker
institutions exploited this lack of attention by flouting banking laws and
regulations.
4.13     During 1988 the Central Bank began to strengthen its ability to
monitor and supervise the banking system. With the assistance of consultants
hired under a Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF), it installed a
computerized off-site surveillance data system, developed new examination
procedures and reporting requirements and increased the number of inspections
of banks and NBFIs (including many of the troubled institutions).   The
Central Bank has also hired new staff, streamlined the organizational
structure of the Banking Supervision Department and formulated a
comprehensive training and staff development program. The Central Bank has
developed written examination and inspection procedures and is instituting
appropriate reporting requirements, provisioning and loan classification
guidelines.
4.14     Troubled  Institutions.    Although  the  majority  of  financial
institutions by number and marke. share appear to be reasonably healthy, a
significant number are in financial difficulty. Of 24 banks and 50 NBFIs,
4 banks and 24 NBFIs are troubled, with 7 NBFIs appearing to be insolvent.
These 28 institutions account for 40 percent of all reporting institutions
and 14 percent of total liabilities of all banks and NBPIs. 24 of the 28
troubled institutior-s were founded after 1980, highlighting the risks of
policies which encourage easy entry but do not provide appropriate exit
mechanisms  or adequate  prudential  supervision.    Because of the  rapid
proliferation of financial institutions in recent years, managerial talent
is scarce and Central Bank staff have been unable to keep up with the
inspection and monitoring demands of the growing sector. In some of these
institutions, managers and directors have diverted funds for their own
benefit.    Many  of  these  institutions  also  have  large  nonperforming
portfolios, resulting from poor credit policies and internal control
mechanisms,   excessive  concentrations,   inadequate  security  and  loan
documentation and poor follow-up. Thus, the system now includes a large
number of non-viable institutions with unrecoverable assets, thin or non-
existent capital and inadequate liquidity.
4.15     Data from the Central Bank and audits of some of the troubled
institutions show that if liquidated, the estimated losses of these 28
institutions would range from KSh 1.9 billion to KSh 3.3 billion, or US$ 105-
178 million equivalent (Annex 7 provides the methodology for arriving at this
estimate).   Table 2 below shows how these potential  losses would be
distributed.



- 16 -
Table 2: TROUBLED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
(KSh million)
Total liabilities for
28 troubled institutions             8.918
of which Government/parastatal     1,999
of which private sector            6,919
Estimated recoverable assets:
Optimistic Scenario                6,973
Pessimistic Scenario               5,625
Total liabilities uncovered:
Optimistic Scenario                1,945
Pessimistic Scenario               3,293
Losses to the private sector
if Government treats its invest-
ments as sunk costs:
Optimistic Scenario                 --
Pessimistic Scenario               1,294
4.16     For the purposes  of determining the exposure of the Deposit
Protection Fund, it was assumed that Government would treat its loans and
deposits (including those of its parastatals) in these troubled institutions
as sunk costs.  Thus, only private depositors (including other financial
institutions) and other creditors would be seeking compensation from the DPF
and the official receiver.  If all private sector liabilities are to be
covered (including depositors not protected by the DPF, other financial
institutions and other creditors), then the losses to the private sector
would range from nil to about ESh 1.3 billion (US$ 70 million). Of the KSh
6.9 billion in private sector liabilities, KSh 3.7 billion represents private
sector deposits which may be eligible for coverage under the DPF (the DPP
only covers deposits under RSh 100,000), compared with KSh 5.6 billion in
recoverable assets. Thus, even under the pessimistic scenario, it appears
that sufficient recoveries may ultimately be made to cover the liabilities
of the DPI.  Nonetheless, additional capital for the DPI is necessary in
order to facilitate an orderly restructuring and/or liquidation of troubled
institutions. The proposed Credit will provide funding to implement such a
restructuring program while the proposed FSTAC will provide technical
assistance.
4.17     In designing the restructuring program, the Central Bank has already
completed preliminary investigations for several troubled 1BF31, banks and
building societies. Consultants funded by the SPPF have been working since
June, 1988 to assist in financial and management audits of these institutions
and in preparing individual action programs. On this basis, Government has
presented a comprehensive action program for restructuring ten troubled
institutions and expects to begin implementation in the next few months with
the assistance of consultants financed under the proposed FSTAC. No funds



- 17 -
will be disbursed from the restructuring component under the proposed Credit
until IDA receives satisfactory documentation that implementation of this
restructuring program has begun. By June 1990, IDA and the Central Bank will
agree on actions to restructure or strengthen other marginal institutions.
4.18     Training for Banking Professionals.  The fast growth of the number
of financial institutions in Kenya has far exceeded the supply of qualified
banking professionals. Training facilities are lacking other than in the
major banks, with the result that few Kenyans attain professional
accreditation, such as the Banking Diploma of the Chartered Institute of
Bankers, London. Since 1980, only 16 Kenyans have qualified for the Diploma,
while more than 200 sit for the examinations each year. Consequently, the
Central Bank has decided to establish a College of Banking and Finance, which
will be supported by the proposel FSTAC.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Origin and Obiectives
5.01     In 1988, during the preparation of the ISAC, Government initiated
discussions with IDA on the need for financial sector reforms to complement
the structural adjustment process in the industrial and agricultural sectors.
The key elements of the financial sector adjustment program, as summarized
in Part IV and in the policy matrix (Annex 4), emerged after extensive
preparatory work and discussions with IDA and IMP staff during 1988. An SPPF
(G044-KE) supported some of this preparatory work, including audits of
troubled financial institutions, the development of a computerized off-site
surveillance system, and the formulation of new inspection procedures and
reporting and financial disclosure requirements. The Credit was preappraised
in September 1988 and appraised in November-December 1988. Negotiations took
place in Washington in April 1989.  Supplementary data on the Credit are
presented in Annex 5.
5.02     Kenya    already has  many  of  the  elements necessary  for  the
development of a vibrant and dynamic financial system, including a diverse
institutional base and competent Central Bank staff and management.
Government's financial sector reform program, which will complement the
structural adjustments being made in the productive sectors, seeks to develop
a more efficient and market-oriented financial system. The program aims at
removing distortions in the mobilization and allocation of resources,
increasing the efficiency of intermediation and developing more flexible
instruments of monetary policy. In addition, the actions supported under the
proposed Credit are a continuation of financial sector reforms which
Government initiated in 1986-87.
5.03     Central to the success of the financial sector reform program will
be Government's ability to contain and reduce the budget deficit. As noted
in para. 2.04 above,   Government intends to contain the deficit to 3.2
percent of GDP by FY92. The primary instrument for ensuring an appropriate
macroeconomic framework will continue to be the agreements reached in the
PFP, which is currently supported by an IMF ESAF approved in May 1989.



- 18 -
Moreover, the conditionality of the proposed Credit links tranche release to
satisfactory agreements on and performance against the fiscal targets
established in the PFP.   The DM  performance review in July 1988 found
overall performance to be satisfactory and a recent review ia February 1989
at the time of the second year PFP discussions also found that progress was
largely satisfactory on all fronts, albeit with some slowing in the pace of
import liberalization compared to original targets (para. 6.07).
Loan Size mnd Components
5.04     IDA's  country  strategy  for Kenya  includes  the  allocation  of
significant resources to support the structural adjustment process.   The
proposed Credit size (SDR 92.9 million) has been determined on the basis of
Kenya's financing requirements over the next three years. In addition to
this amount, the PSAC is expected to attract cofinancing totalling about US$
70 million from the African Development Bank, the Netherlands, and USAID.
Government's medium-term adjustment program includes reductions in the
budgetary and current account deficits (paras. 2.03-2.06). These adjustment
efforts, however, will require increased foreign assistance to finance
increased imports, the rebuilding of reserves and the net transfer of
resources to the IMF. During the period 1989-91, the cumulative current
account deficit is projected to total US$ 1.7 billion, excluding transfers.
Debt amortization, including IDF repurchases, is expected to be US$ 1.2
billion. A modest buildup in foreign reserves would add US$ 230 million,
bringing total financing requirements for the period to US$ 3.2 billion.
Financing available from existing commitments total US$ 1.2 billion.
Disbursements frem expected new commitments, including the Bank-sponsored
Special Program of Assistance for which Kenya became eligible during 1988,
would amount to US$ 1.9 billion.   Kenya would face a small cumulative
unfinanced gap of US$ 84 million.
Table 3s EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS, 1989-91
(US$ millions)
1989      1990      1991
Total Financing Requirements      1,075     1,063     1,029
Disbursements from Existing
Commitments                      592       379       212
Disbursements from Expected
New Commitments                  476       629        796
Of which FSAC                     55        55        10
Subtotal                         1,068     1,008     1,008
Financing Gap                        7        55         21
Source: Annex 1, page 6.



- 19 -
5.05      The proposed Credit, to be implemented by the Cent.ral Bank of
Kenya, will have two componentss (i) a quick-disbursing component for balance
of payments support, linked to the actions described in Part IV above and in
the policy matrix (SDR 61.9 million); and (ii) a quick-disbursing
institutional restructuring component, with counterpart funds made available
to the DPF through a special account to support the restructuring of troubled
institutions as detailed in paras. 4.14 - 4.17 and Annex 9 (SDR 31 million).
These counterpart funds will be used to reimburse the DPF for payments to
protected depositors, and equity and/or loan contributions to restructured
institutions, in line with action programs for each institution agreed with
IDA. A SPPF of US$ 500,000 (SPPF G044-KE) will also be refinanced from the
Credit. In addition, a companion technical assistance credit, (Financial
Sector Technical Assistance Credit) will provide assistance to the Central
Bank of Kenya and to the College of Banking and Finance.
Disbursement and Procurement
5. Ori    The quick-disbursing component will be released in two equal
tranches, the first becoming available upon effectiveness and the second upon
fulfillment of specific conditions for tranche release, anticipated for June
1990. Board presentation conditions and second tranche release conditions
are found in Annex 4. Release of funds for the institutional restructuring
component would be contingent upon agreement with IDA on action programs for
each institution. Disbursements would not be made until the Central Bank has
presented satisfactory documentation that the DPF had paid protected
depositors and injected new loans or capital into an institution, in line
with the agreed action program. It is expected that the restructuring of ten
institutions (para.4.17) will use about SDR 23 million of this component.
The remaining SDR 8 million will be disbursed when interest rates are
liberalized in June 1991.
5.07      Both components would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of general imports not contained in a negative list. The items not
eligible for financing include goods financed by other sources, and a
specific list of excluded items, such as military or para-military equipment
and luxury goods i.e., tobacco, precious stones, etc..   The Credit is
expected to be fully disbursed within two years of effectiveness.   The
Closing Date will be September 30, 1991. For the quick-disbursing component,
local currency funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided by
the Credit would not be earmarked for specific purposes, but rather, would
be available without restriction for use in Government's budget.   It is
expected that these funds will be used only for Government's development
budget. For the institutional restructuring component, counterpart funds
will be placed in a Special Account to reimburse the DPF for payments under
the agreed action programs.
5.08      Procurement  procedures  have  been  designed  to  permit  rapid
disbursement of the Credit while preserving efficiency and accountability.
Imports by Government and the private sector would follow international
competitive bidding for contracts exceeding US$ 3.5 million equivalent. For
amounts below US$ 3.5 million, Government would follow public procurement
procedures, which have been reviewed and are acceptable and would seek three
price quotations.  Private sector pu:1chases below US$ 3.5 million would



- 20 -
follow established commercial practices, and wherever possible, at least two
quotations would be sought.
5.09      Disbursements  for  contracts  procured  through  international
competitive bidding (ICB) would be made against fully documented withdrawal
applications. Disbursements for other items would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOE) detailing individual transactions in a given
period, together with certification of payment of the amounts involved and
of their eligibility under the Credit. The Hinistry of Finance would retain
supporting documentation for SOEs until at least 12 months after the closing
of the Credit account and make it available for review by IDA superyisJon
missions.    Two  special accounts  (the Import  Special Account  and the
Restructuring Special Account) would be established in US dollars in a
commercial bank  for the proposed Credit.    These accounts would have
authorized allocations of US$ 10 million and US$ 5 million respectively.
Audits, Reporting and Monitoring
5.10      The Central Bank will maintain records of all transactions under
the Credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year of Government, all accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to the
Association. Audit reports will include a separate opinion with regard to
the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of SOEs and would state whether such
claims have been effected in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
5.11      Monitoring will cover both the progress made in implementirg the
specific reforms under the proposed Credit as well as regular assessments,
joint'ly with IMP staff, of the adequacy of the macroeconomic framework,
including progress in fiscal reform, exchange rate and reserves management.
The Central Bank, as the implementing agency, will provide semiannual reports
focusing on trends in monetary aggregates, overall volume and allocation of
credit, interest rates, monetary and fiscal policy developments and,
financial institution performance. In addition to regular review missions
during Credit implementation, IDA staff will coordinate with the IMF (see
para. 6.09) to ensure adequate monitoring of key economic policies and
indicators.
Economic and Social Impact
5.12      The proposed program is expected to help Kenya develop a stronger
and more efficient financial system and thereby be able to support the
achievement of its long term growth targets. In particular, a reorientation
of incentives and deepening of the financial system is necessary in order to
provide the private sector with the appropriate levels and types of financial
instruments to sustain growth in output and investment. In addition, the
development of a more activist monetary policy will provide Government with
a greater array of instruments with which to manage external balance and
domestic demand, particularly important in light of Kenya's continuing
reliance on coffee and tea for export earnings.   The liberalization of
interest rates is expected to allow for greater discretion in pricing credit
for risk and maturity and thus increase the supply of credit to the private
sector. Finally, the creation of the College of Banking and Finance will



- 21 -
make an important contribution to developing a strong cadre of Kenyan bankers
and financial professionals.
5.13      The program is likely to incur some real transitional costs,
however, particularly as weaker institutions are closed or restructured. The
regulatory reform envisaged, as well as the careful planning of individual
restructuring programs, will be designed to minimize dislocation within the
financial system. In addition, while Government and parastatals may sustain
some losses in this restructuring, these losses have already de facto
occurred. Only those parastatals which require recapitalization themselves
(usually for reasons not linked to the financial system) may face a further
cash outlay.
Risks
5.14      The proposed program faces two risks.  First, the maintenance of
an appropriate macroeconomic framework is critical for the success of the
financial sector reforms. High and sustained budget deficits may tend to
drive up interest rates, crowd out the private sector and fuel inflation,
thus giving rise to distortions in financial intermediation and partly
negating  the  intended  benefits  of  the  program.    In  order  to avoid
inflationary pressures, Government intends to rely on borrowing from the
nonbank sector or on external concessional sources of funds. Where domestic
interest rates are market-determtied, however, Government's borrowing needs
will raise real interest rates. Higher interest rates will not only crowe
out private investors but will also increase public spending for servicing
Government debt. Moreover, at a time when Government is taking steps to
liberalize financial markets, a steep rise in real interest rates could
weaken its resolve and commitment to the reform process. Therefore, both the
reduction of fiscal deficits and their financing through non-inflationary
sources are critical elements to the success of the program.
5.15      The second risk entails the restructuring of troubled institutions.
Institutional restructuring generally is a time-consuming and complex
process. In Kenya, most of the institutions to be wound down or restructured
are indigenous-owned, potentially increasing political sensitivities.  In
addition, the restructuring of some of the weaker institutions may require
recapitalization or restructuring of some parestatals. The Central Bank and
the Ministry of Finance remain committed to the restructuring program, so as
to avoid a financial crisis such as that in 1985-86.  They have already
prepared a comprehensive action program for 10 institutions and are now
seeking consultants to assist in implementation. During project preparation
Government requested that the Credit provide both technical expertise and
financial backing for this institutional restructuring.   This technical
expertise is being provided under the companion FSTAC.
VI. BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN KENYA
6.01      The Bank's assistance strategy focuses on three main objectives:
(i) encouraging Government to implement structural changes to facilitate more
efficient resource use in the private and public sectors; (ii) supporting



- 22 -
investments that directly enhance growth as well as employment; and (iii)
reducing the rate of population growth while strengthening Kenya's social
base and institutional capacity.  In the short-term, IDA intends to work
closely with Government and the IMF to support the effective implementation
and maintenance of the macroeconomic stabilization measures described above
(paras. 2.04 - 2.06).  In the medium term  IDA will continue to support
structural adjustment and policy reform in a number of key sectors, including
agriculture, industry, finance, education and health. Increased attention
will be given to the private sector in industry, finance and other services,
and to smallholder producers in agriculture.   In addition, medium-term
efforts will focus on more efficient resource utilization, both in the
productive sectors as well as in selected social sectors. Finally, in the
longer term, IDA will contribute to maintaining and enhancing the human and
physical inputs available for growth and development. These efforts, largely
through discrete projects, will focus on improving infrastructure, providing
better health services, education and training as well as helping Kenya
contain its rapid population growth rate. In addition, IDA intends to give
increasing attention to preserving Kenya's environment, including wildlife
conservation.
6.02      The Bank Group has at present five loans and 21 IDA credits under
implementation in Kenya, with US$ 695.5 million and US$ 1008.1 million,
respectively, outstanding.   Eighty-one loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. IFC has made investments in 15 enterprises in Kenya. spanning the
industrial, financial and tourism sectors. Total gross co-mmitments amounted
to US$ 131.1 million, of which US$ 18. million represented equity
investments.   In industry, IFC has been active in the pulp and paper,
textiles, tanning and agroprocessing sectors.   IPC has also invested in
several financial institutions in Kenya, with loans and equity to these
institutions totalling US$ 16.2 million.
6.03      The Bank's previous operations in Kenya's financial sector have
been limited to individual lines of credit to industrial and agricultural
development finance institutions (DPIs). Over the past 20 years, the Bank
group has lent over US$ 145 million to support these institutions, but their
impact has been small and their financial performance has been poor. The two
primary beneficiaries have been the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) and the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), receiving US$ 65 million and US$ 66
million, respectively. In addition, two lines of credit have been made to
Kenya Industrial Estates  (KIE).   All three  institutions  face serious
portfolio problems and have been periodically buffeted by political pressures
on credit decisions. As Government-owned institutions, they have also been
unable to attract and retain high-calibre staff, and have lacked the autonomy
and flexibility to adapt to changing market conditions. Moreover, as banks
and NBeIs have entered the market for term lending and smaller enterprises,
IDB and KIB have found they are unable to compete with these institutions.
Under the ISAC, Government is developing action programs for restructuring
IDB and two other industrial DFIs.   This restructuring will include the
privatization, liquidation or reorganization of companies on their
portfolios, as appropriate, and a determination of viable roles and
structures for these industrial DFIs. It is expected that implementation of
these action programs will begin during 1989. KUE underwent a financial
restructuring prior to the approval of the second IDA credit. In addition,



- 23 -
current sector work in agriculture is examlning alternative channels for
agricultural credit and will look at the relevance and potential
restructuring of AFC. IDA's strategy in the financial sector in Kenya in the
future will focus increasingly on systemic issues rather than assistance to
individual institutions. It is envisaged, however, that a certain amount of
institutional reform, in tandem with appropriate policy changes, will be
necessary.
6.04      Bank Experience with Structural Adiustment Lending.  After some
disappointment with two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) to Kenya in 1980
and 1982, the Bank decided in 1985 to disaggregate structural adjustment into
a series of sector operations based on detailed economic analysis and
intensive preparation.   Implementation of the SALs, which were complex,
multi-sectoral operations, fell short of expectations because of overly
optimistic assumptions about the pace of reforms, overestimation of
Government's ability to manage such programs and inadequate consensus within
Government and the private sector on some issues. In addition, the attention
of key Government officials was diverted to urgent issues of political and
economic stabilization (1982-83) and drought relief (1984). In contrast, the
recent sectoral operations have been more sharply focused on key sectoral
issues, thus facilitating intra-Governmental coordination and commitment.
Annex 8 summarizes the key objectives and achievements of recent sectoral
operations in Kenya.
6.05      In  1986,   Government  began  implementing  an  IDA-supported
agricultural adjustment program to improve the use and distribution of inputs
among smallholders, especially fertilizers; maintain attractive producer
incentives; reduce and rationalize the public sector role in marketing;
improve agricultural credit policies; and rationalize public expenditures in
the sector. Government has largely succeeded in implementing the program.
Although the substantive conditions of effectiveness were met as scheduled,
a procedural issue on the legal documents delayed credit effectiveness by
about six months.  Except for relatively slow progress in the financial
restructuring of two V3rastatals, conditions for second tranche release were
met and was approved by the Board in March 1988.
6.06      During 1987 and 1988,  Government raised the retail price of
fertilizers, increased the number of distributors and end-users receiving
fertilizers, and improved and streamlined the system for allocating import
licenses. Cost recovery in the livestock sector has improved considerably.
Government also increased user charges for seed certification but has delayed
increases in retail margins. Producer price increases announced in early
1988 ranged from 4 percent to 45 percent and are generally consistent with
border prices and the need to provide adequate incentives to farmers.
Consumer prices of rice, sugar, maize flour, and milk were also raised in
mid-1988. Payments to producers have been more prompt with the exception of
maize and coffee. For coffee, Government bas prepared a new system which
will be implemented on a pilot basis during 1988-89. In 1987, Government
approved a mjor restructuring program for the Natio-sl Cereals and Produce
Board (NCPB), which is currently under implementation with assistance from
EEC. A key element of this program was the decision to eliminate NCPB's
monopoly on grain marketing.   Consequently,  Government announced that
cooperatives and small traders would be allowed to buy up to 20 percent of



- 24 -
marketed grain during the 1988-89 season. Budgetary pressures caused delays
in the financial restructuring of South Nyanza Sugar Company (SONY) and the
National Irrigation Board (NIB), but progress in organizational restructuring
and improvements in management and financial procedures has been
satisfactory. The financial restructuring of these two parastatals is now
underway. The Agricultural Finance Corporation has adopted improved lending
policies and is giving priority to smallholders.
6.07      In June 1988, the Board approved the ISAC, which was based on
detailed sector work and prepared over a six-month period with a Government
committee. Under this program, Government has already taken important steps
to begin to liberalize imports, rationalize tariffs, decontrol prices,
improve investment and export incentives, and restructure the development
finance institutions and their portfolios. Government met all the conditions
for first tranche release by mid-June, 1988, as scheduled. Licensing became
less restricted for items in Schedules I, II, and IIIA (primarily raw
materials, spares and bulk commodities), tariffs were reduced and
rationalized, prices were decontrolled for 20 product groups, investment
incentives were increased, especially for exports, and various processes for
investors were streamlined and made more transparent. A high-level council
of private sector executives and Government officials has also been
established to begin to draft legislation for the Capital Markets Development
Authority and a refinance facility has been opened at the Central Bank. The
pace of import liberalization will be somewhat slower than originally
intended.   Government will replace quantitative restrictions on items in
Schedule IIIB (which includes imports that compete with domestic production)
with equivalent tariffs in June 1989 and implement unrestricted licensing for
these imports. However, the composition of this Schedule has been revised,
compared to that originally agreed, by shifting items between it and Schedule
IIIC (which contains other competing imports and luxury goods). The revised
IIIB will include approximately 80 of the 1986/87 import value of the
original Schedule.   This modification is intended to reflect better the
current and potential competitiveness of various domestic industries.
Notwithstanding this revision, about 94? of Kenya's imports (1986/87 values)
will be subject to unrestricted licensing when the revised IIIB is
liberalized in June 1989. Further, Government remains committed to replacing
the remaining quantitative restrictions on imports with equivalent tariffs
in 1990-91. Government will accelerate implementation of other components
of the  industrial  adjustment program.    By June 1989,  it will  begin
implementing a comprehensive export promotion program based on a recently
completed study. Government has recently acquired sites near Nairobi and
Mombasa for the development of export processing zones and has begun
discussions with donors on financing these facilities. The administration
and coverage of the existing export compensation scheme will also be
improved. Studies that redefine the role of three major development finance
institutions (DFIs) and formulate action programs for restructuring these
institutions and their portfolios have been completed. Implementation of
these action programs will begin in June 1989.
6.08      Net Resource Transfers.   Investment project implementation also
faced problems with Kenya's limited administrative and absorptive capacity.
In the past few years, the Bank has assisted Government in rationalizing and
scaling back a number of investment projects so as to conform better to its



- 25 -
needs and capabilities. Recent country implementation reviews have focused
on this issue, with greater emphasis given to better donor coordination,
more effective use of technical assistance and using pilot projects for
designing investment projects. These implementation problems, however,
contributed to a drop in net transfers from the Bank Group to Kenya during
the 1980s. Net transfers declined from US$ 125 million in 1982 to a
negative US$ 40 million in 1987. This trend is partially due to rising
interest payments on IBRD loans, many of rhich have been fully disbursed.
In FY89 Kenya benefitted from the Fifth Dimension initiative which involved
IDA reflows equivalent to SDR 41 million, disbursed as a supplemental
credit to the first tranche of ISAC. Because of its relatively high IBRD
exposure (22.7X of long-term debt outstanding and disbursed, and 24.8Z of
long-term debt service obligations) and already high debt-service ratio
(para. 2.09), no IBRD lending to Kenya is envisaged in the next few years.
Coordination with the DMP
6.09 The proposed Credit is a critical element both in Government and
IDA's strategy for Kenya, but also in the overall program of stabilization
and structural reform supported by the DMF. Appropriate exchange rate,
monetary and fiscal policies are central to the success of the proposed
financial sector adjustment program. In February 1988, the IMF Board
approved a Stand-by arrangement for SDR 85 million and a SAF for SDR 90
million. The recent IMF review of progress under these facilities found
that all performance criteria through June 1988 had been met, although the
staff expressed some concern regarding the continuing expenditure pressures
facing Government (para. 2.03) and the pace of import liberalization (para.
6.07). The second-year PFP was discussed by the Bank Board, meeting as a
Committee of the Whole, on May 11, 1989. The financial sector reform
program has been developed in conjunction with IMP staff and is an
important component of the PFP supporting the ESAF, which was discussed and
approved by the IMF's Board on May 15, 1989, to replace the Stand-by
arrangement and SAF. IMF staff have also assisted Government in developing
appropriate monetary policy instruments and are providing technical
assistance to the Central Bank in this area.
Coordination with other Donors
6.10 As has been the case with other recent sectoral adjustment
operations, the FSAC represents an important focal point for donor
coordination and cofinancing for Kenya at a time when the country is
experiencing serious balance of payments constraints and faces a relatively
high debt-service burden. Subject to final decisions by the individual
donors, cofinancing for the FSAC is likely to total about US$ 70 million
with contributions from the African Development Bank, the Netherlands, and
USAID, under the framework of the Special Program of Assistance (SPA).



- 26 -
PAIT VII - RECOW4ENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 22. 1989



- 27 -                                        Annex I
KENYA: KEY ECMIMIC INDICA0                      Page 1 of 9
AfLl             Est.                     Proelcn
1984    195    1986   1987      1       18      190    1991    192    1W
MP (at up.) Grath Rate          2.2     4.1     5.8     5.0     4.9     5.1     5.2      5.4     5.4     5.3
e cothRate                      1.8     4.0     5.9     4.8     4.8     5.6     5.5      5.5     5.8     5.5
P/Caplta Graft  Rate           -2.0     0.1     2.0     1.0     0.8     1.8      1.7     1.7     2.0     1.8.
Canetl5Vapita Groth Rate        0.8   -0.9      0.0     2.4     1.2     0.7     0.8      1.2     1.7     1.5
Total DOD (U$ mII lons)/a    3388.0  3882.9  4544.6  5359.6  5672.4  801.8  6388.9  8692.9  B814.5  7743.4
DODAIa                        201.8   232.6   272.3   323.0   301.3   288.4   284.3   273.0   247.4   189.1
OODM/P/a                       55.3    84.9    63.2   86.7    68.8   63.1    62.6    81.8   59.1    48.8
Debt Service (US$ mlII il)/b    592.0   637.3   713.3   728.4   778.2   806.3   763.4   715.8   738.9   599.4
Debt ServioeA hb               35.5    38.2    42.7    43.9    41.3    38.7    34.1    29.2    28.8    14.8
Debt ServiceAUP/b               9.7    10.7     9.9     9.1    9.1      8.5     7.5      8.6     8.4     3.8
Gross InvestmmntfUP            23.4    20.1    22.6   24.8   24.3    24.3    24.7    24.8   24.8   25.0
iObestic SavW   P              22.1    19.0   22.6    18.6    19.0   19.8    2D.5    21.2    21.8    22.4
National Savlns/UF/c           19.3    18.3    19.9    16.6    18.8    17.7    18.5    19.1    19.8   19.4
Marginal National Saviia Rate/c   31.4   -12.7    40.4   -8.7    24.7    39.0    34.3    32.1    32.1    24.6
PthiiC In   tuntMP/d            7.7     7.0    8.1      7.6     7.6     7.5     7.4      7.3     7.3    7.0
Goverruent SSvirgs/UDP         -1.3    -1.0   -1.0   -0.2       0.7     0.7      1.1     1.5     1.8    1.8
Private itwestumnt/UP/d        10.7    10.4    12.0    12.2    12.0   12.1    12.8    12.8    12.9    13.6
Private Savirgs/P/e            29.6    17.3   20.9    18.8    15.9    17.0    17.4    17.8    18.2    17.8
Pibilc/Private InNestuent/d    72.0   67.3   87.5    82.3    83.3    82.0    58.7    57.0    58.6    51.5
abiweruent ReverzomP/f         22.2    22.3    22.6    22.5    23.2    23.8    24.1    24.3    24.5    25.0
Grants/UP/f                     0.7     1.7     1.0     1.3    2.1      2.4     2.5     2.8      2.5     2.5
G Irumont Eperdvitures/UP/f    26.7    29.7    29.7    31.9    29.8    30.7    30.8    30.8    30.2    30.0
kdbst Deficitt/DP/f            -3.9    -5.1    -5.4    -7.8   -4.0   -4.5   -4.2    -3.7    -3.2    -2.5
EBxwrts Wouth RaWg             -1.0     5.5    12.7   -3.7      2.5     5.2     4.1     4.8      4.8     4.3
Borts of Goods and NFfS/P      26.7    25.9   2B.0   20.2   21.8    21.5    21.6    22.3    23.3    24.2
liworts Groth Rate/            18.3   -7.9    17.9    5.6       9.8     4.9     5.0     5.3     6.0     5.3
Ioorts of Goods andNFSSGP/h   28.1    27.0    25.9    Z. 2    27.3   26.1    25.9    2B.0    26.7    27.0
Crrent koA t Balanoe,
Inoldzig officlal transfers -119.7  -W.8  -44.3  -482.3  -380.3   44.3  -2.0  -242.7  -150.4  -113.4
(US ml ITI =)A
As X of UP                     -2.0   -1.6    -0.8   -8.0   -4.5   -3.8    -3.2   -2.2   -1.3   -0.7
D.rrent Acunt Balance,
cluding official transfrs -238.3  -208.7  -193.0  441.0  -64.2  -3.2  -572.9  -22.1  -45.5  -451.3
(US$ ml Ilors)JI
As X of UP                     -3.9   -3.5   -2.7    4.0    -7.7   -8.3   -5.8   -4.8   -4.0   -2.7
TerMs of Trade induc          130.0   108.3   122.3   100.0   103.9   105.2   106.8   111.0   117.0   121.5
(1987-100)
Corm   Price ind  (1987-100)   80.9    91.4    95.1   103.0      ..      ..      ..
Real Exdr  Rate (1987-100)    129.4   127.8   110.6   10Q.0      ..      ..      ..
a  Incliuding pjbilc debt, IMF credit, firancirg gap, and estilated ram-garanteed private debt.
b/ lncluding public debt service, obilgatimn and crgw to IV, debt service for flnancrig gap, and estiated
nrn-garante  private debt service.
c  Excluding off Icial transfers.
dt aross f Ixed investment; excludos caes In stL-t&.
e/ liPlIlcitly Includes parastatal savings, for aich separate data are not available.
f/ Year sKding Am 30.  The    t def lcit does not equal expedittres mirnu rwerms and grants de to an
Ldjusteent factor for delays In actual cash  eolitures at the end of each f Iscal year.
g/ Refers to ooods anly.
Comtingi oFf Iclal transfers wabove the I IW  as an Item cWtrlbuting to the determination
of the current acoount def icit.
1/ ibriting officlal transfers below the llne" as an Item contributing to the financing
of the current acount def icit.



- 28-                                        Annex 1
l ~                              KENtA   -    TICNAWI INIXE A                       Page 2 of 9
119      V,tlatv: (MI I   .8p
A. Natliul kwmnts Indlcatws as Stues of I  M:                                                     Proe     (rR  of GOP
HIsbWicai (Ores of VP In Oarent Prieas)        Prelf I.      In        1   Prices)
lsm       1973     im  198    1984    1985    lose    197    1988    1999   192    1997
VS               t *- P .P.   1?   1         1":?   t9       '1        :                        2     2 82
Agriclture42.                                 02
iIrm IaacttrgI tr I ng)      i2 it:                    ?            10.5              . 
Servlcs                     42.8   33.4   38.5   40.2   39.3   40.8   41.9   43.2   43.3   43.4   43.7   44.5
kjxrts ocX              7    24          6    -1.                                                     5.1    - 24.7 -0  N  i 2  :1 8   3 22
Umo                                                      U 237.                                      .     .
Total B3qnItures               99.3   101.3   111.5   101.0   101.4  101.1   99.9   106.0  10O.9   106.4  106.1   104.8
IrsSf levun                  12 4    0        S89    1       1 :4   I2D                     I 02 148   18 3    241 3  4 : 2
Oawrss In StoUk             1.6      .4     6.3    2.3    5.0    2.8    2.4         4.8    4.7      4.7    4.8      .4
MMI2ctYto I-port                                       -       -       -        -     21.2    22.0
ana                               -  -    -  -  -  -                                                           2
ois llatlafl Prowt           97.0   85.0   98.8   96.7   98.5   98.3   98.4    82 7                                 90.8
Gross Oestic Savlin            15.1    24.5    1 .      .1    22.0   19.0    22.7    1         18    1 .    21.    21.8
Mr, NStISl Savin              12.5    19.2    1       18.0   19.5   18.6   19.8   18.    2.0           3.      2.8    23.
-. Nstlul Aconts Grat Rates (S) at Cmetant Prices:
ctaI                            Prel lo.          Projectiws
18-73 1973-0 1980-6   1983    1984    1985    198    1987    1986    1989  197- 1 19927
sos bwstic ProX t a.P.         8.4    5.       3 .2                    4.1     5.      5.0    4.       5.1    5.2    5.3
wlcult.re                                                                   1:       *JI              :     1:      1-
Net llrect                   12.42    5'7    I3    1                         5.8 -8 Is  36I    5-    5       5       50
(of iIld  muiiacturlr)       12.4    88              4.5    4.3    4.5               S.      5.      5.9             6.
WrvIoce                       7.6    5.2    4.4    2.9    3.4        4.8    6.5    5.2    5.1        5.3    5.5    5.7
o ff                      57      25    -23   -18 4      7 8    -2 0               9  28 41     4         3     52
Total Enditires                8.7    5.2      1.2   -3.9    6.0    0.7        8.4    8.4    4.7       4.6    5.0    5.3
Total Cuwetlce                 .      45.     28    -1. 21  2                67 6                   4       4 5 3   2
Gulral                     13.1     8 9      .       .4 -0.0 ..8                            3.     3
15.9    4.4   -2.3  -12.5    11.4   -82    17.8    1:67         3.1    5:1    5.6    5:.
Flxed Investent     n.a.:   n.a.   _2.7  _lf.8    3.1        U.ff   133      82              51      5.     sr
Owps In Stords             n.a.    n.a.    -1.7             .7  -43.0   48.9   56.4    2.9    5.1          4.6    4.5
Capacty to laprt               -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       7.8    5.2    1.0    5.8
Turu   TrabMJisusnt            -       -       -       -       -       -       -       --.u           51.1      a1    45.1
aoss UttcIce-                          -       -                                              55      54      5-       4
06osIstIcnlrIne                -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -53.5.85.4
ON  Ititl  ProOt              7.6     5.3    3.1      1.7    1.8    4.0    5.S       4.9    4.8    5.5    5.         5.5
Gross 0PIst c Savirg           12.0   -0.2    2.S    0.3    9.4   -7.4    25.5  -12.4    7.4    9.2    8.6              .1
Net Wator Irnms               A.       .       ..                                            14.1   -11.7   1:       f
Net urrent Tr r 6              *-W 'l    -15. 71    0                                                        6i 5
Oross Natlora sI8                      0 3     2 3     4.3    t.      -15.    13.6    18    9.8    6.0



- 29                                          Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
KENYA   -   IATIOUL AMlNIS (wmtirmd)
C. Pr1ce lie lis (1987.1C0):                      ktIl                      Prollo.              Gr(t Ratm (s p-a)
lo8    1983    1984    1985    1918       17              19873  173"80  19807
Csar  Pr lms (IFS 64)             48.9    73.4    80.9    91.4    S6.1   100.0                  3.2    13.8    10.8
Iv IIcit GOP leflator            50.2    68.3    76.7                                          2.4    11.6    10.4
I pilcit Ef'.  eflator           45.9    68.4    74.9    62.5,    S0.    100.0                 2.7    12.4    11.4
ODf lators for Sector:
,tuicutal sActor             Sa       6.         .        .      1.         04.1    11.7    10
IldtrlaI Sector                5         47       1         .      24     1.                 0          3      8
Sllrvce Seto                    48:     C5.:2     0.      17 8.6     89.   '1.03                      1.8     10
D. Otwr Indicators:             1973-0  198-87  1887-92 1992-97                                1973    1980    1967
oyrth    s( p.a.)                   .                         :W               rel     :
FapulZl~~~~~~: ?.8  3.   .8 3 :r f oa
ffi FtC  I  D.C.   0 9    _1 25    2 0      1~~~4'         lcuitues           837    8t.l.
1    (GrtEIa?tict:    D)0.5    -0.d               0.8      1.0           TItal              100.0   100.0
17rall awla PAtQ6:
age    stIc Savi-
IOCR (period averapes)            5.6      6.1      4.7     4.7
E. Nttiona Amu.nts (elIIons of KlA   pwunds at 1987 Prics):
dtual                     Prel lo.                    ProJwctlw
1980    1983    1984    1985    1988    1987    1968    1989    1980    1981           192    197
M.P.         -               la-      Is      R-                lo        -        -                -m     1
sr W tur1tt                              Iwo Owt*-P   S   5% 1552    1614  1761     13                I 1     204    f          t
(of SI' cMh Iftacturfr) Ing)                                    1          1        1r          11   1   In    I jN
Servics                         2075    2352    2433 2#i0    2717    2857    3004    31t3    3335    3528    3                  4919
Iqwrts of IN'S                 2214    1197       i                          4     18041842          19     7 2                 4
Total E dltures                   20      5        593      0600      39    6948    7345    7a84    877         849      8       11586
Total CioAtl8t  AiA                              43 m  8                                      A17    81112    BW 7
Orr 6 DnwestleI      tw         17M     1125    12320     1o       127     If!    1    1  14729   le          2n5gi    2114    2w
OIanges In Stods               349      146              137      2D4     317              A343      31      150               48
Cavacity toIl vort                 -       -                                 1335    1438    1513          1     746     1        2488
tsrs_Tr? traPe oJLust.            -        -        -        -        -                 41                       120      167
kaoa                                                                                       744Ocw= = = =               75755    1
6rosms kticnal Prod               5043    575      5645    5695    81-40    60 2 6723    7103    7492    7907
Gross buestic Savirc              708    1M6    1025    1108    1273    12                     131    1490    1594 14             2232
Net Factor Inmame               .10      ,10      17      'AR    -1        1                 - 1      - 17    -133     -V       -11
Net C-rent Taa47f2r



- 30-                                              Annex  1
KENYA    -          RAD E                      Page 4 of 9
A. Volu:a, Value w4 PriOes                         Actal                      Prel I.                          ProJectiom
110     183    1984    1985        18       197      1988    1089 1990    lt1  im                19w
kMardlsa Exports                  -    -    -    -    -
Co 4odity 1                                        1t.fee  1  18  I8                   1  421            I8
olty 3    Fuels             45    21E    I1             5      1 5         R    J                    .2    1     1.  1
kr factusrfh. Exprts FOB/a     )15      0:3       1 894    113   I0 :                         11i      LI    12            3      2
Ity-1 Coffee                        241
1ty 2                                     1a1 .1                          rO1tlO 1   r   i       .    11       1         117    51o
5=1jtY 3    Fuels                4451 
actree                     212      f1                        1i       182i
Resla                           2        2 9 87           194d238            2 *I               : 31
Total Merch. Exports FO          30       90      1078      988    1218       908     1019    1138    1213               1535
Lardwdisa leports
Food                           1      0.0  .Q    1:       1.3    10: VolQ            108      17    ill:    118.0   12D.1   180.7
nt ewr wdnIatem o              142.9    841       1A  I~                   I~.         .5    10       1141    1:    12
1W:j                       141 4             1           1~    1~14              171     tO
&I ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~       'arz Goodss fo 11         le         U)
NOa, ti dWh. Iepots CIF         258      136      ,s2      138      ,       18        1      I%         8111:    11      119.    15
Price IrKilces
MadWd dlse IPrTt               13a     119 {l O  M*      111.7            i     ii   19 7.100       1118.    !  211
FoDdi.Tr   oTae1)9                       ~       1:        141   ~:         ~             I     I                17Iiw   Ml       26
B. Shre of Ttabl X or il (2) at cirrent prices              C. Crt  Rates (X) at  axtt prices
1985    1973    1980    1987    1902    1997                196 473  19738   180-87 1987-02 190247
| MrawKise Expruts
gIt     1    Toffee          125.     1         32 t1           21.7    21. tj B. -25                        l
l4riactwes                      32.9          15.3352      19.57        1      .               6.         ..    -2.7      .7       5.1
Tntal Mardi. D~ports FOB       to-       3  8    1080     1208     100 100.     0   L          3:8    -1: 5      0                 4.3
IOtr E                          1         1         5      2 4. 5                              a  15 I.
IntercdateGoo15.7    10. 148                                                30. 54                              -4 0        Oa
otal Yerc. Iorts CIF            100.0   100.0   100.0   10i00    1000   100.0                 5.0      24      -4        4.3      5.3
a'  rIncltdas aircraft and ship stores.



- 31-                 .                       Annex I
Page 5 of 9
KENA   -        AUL    OF PAMWI
(=  mlIIIwo at OLrrunt Priclo)
AoI                       Pretl I.                    Projectiirs
1im     13       14    19085    10         18       1        1       190    190  1     191      119
A.1  Eorts~   (F0)                                  --                                                  -        -
A  f   ?  / I~~~ffS                 If1  182  IM2  13   I   1   2W   X   if i                                               |
1.           a1s B Sf  76   lin                             amS    I                 I  1 1   j       1792-    f
2. Nor-Fwctor Services6                           w                         9l
2. Nr4lactor Seis 4a#
C.  ResoLce Balnce               -80       -24      -a5      6         7          4 471    -445    -            -4       -384     42
O.  Net Factor Ia                -        -1       -211    -22               -229    -211    -245    -          -221    -         -11
1. Facto Receipts         ~                                          ~2R                                       2
2.FctrPayets                                                                                                 -22               1   2 i i i         5
(nterest pyiwits
E.        arr1  Prlvate Tratuf      7       5        5                                          87       05      104      117      128
a. -icebrs' remittarctes        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
b. otsr Owrent traen.           -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -     
2. Arrt  Pa ts                   1        31       31       25      31       38
F.  Oarent Acut Balance        -im       -152    -23B    -27    -193    -41    -54    -03               7      -5       463    -4*1
6.   L   fu-Taru    Ita nflmW    87      21,      235              2        443 54                                      51
3.  rIIwnt75                             1                                    1a1        
2. Net OfiiLT TruE6fers2                          1l                 8Z$17             4                     '3!  
4. NtLTL         (n0et)                  I5I -    -251                                                          53
H.  TotaliOr item (rot)           137       38       el       33      31      12D       49      s0       18       21       63       0
2. Not Sh art Tom C-sptal
2.         lornr N.E.i.          if        8                                                           1                          8
3  rors an    lssiom             1o~                        i             ~            T ~                                  
I H' tar. d  fNat'    Rl         2l    -19                                   2       61       5        7       11
-.Qthe Ruerv es                  150   -174                1                -50                               -1        2
SarS of GP (Orrent USt):
1. Re    0 I OtBA I NV          -11.4    -.4    -1.4    -1.1                          -5.5    -4.7    -4.          7             -2.
2.                                2.5              3742
3. CrenowBt                     -1.4oZm M  Blila                              :       4m        _i-Ii             i       I41.j
3. l)rrefl A~~~cr~ait BaIuv9                                                 5 -14.2
4. IOT CaItal I fnf  )h
5. Netqtredlt frt elr gll) rs4             1:s                               037                                 OB4    78        0j
IF (mIii ions of  Crrent U)      7087    5748    GM  *  5081    7188    9040    8515    9518   10168   10831    11537   11B
Foreign Exr   Rseres:
1. Int'l. Rese      (IFS l1d)              37       3                41       258      -        _        _
2. Ms eerves, Inl.God         539     4C        1                 4
3. wiross   . In6      2.1     3        2.7       .8     2         .4      1.0      1.3      1.6     1.6      2.0      2.5
Ex*B Rates (KdV=):
1.I: .: ff X-Rlate  lSh          7.42   1.1    14.4                J2       i:
2 R  i      Eff    te  t1980)   10000 m    i    101.7    1.43   1  98 
a/ Excluding aircraft and ship stores.



Annex  1
- 32 -                                            Page 6 of 9
KENYA: EXTERNAL FilANCING REWIREOENTS, 1988-S1
(US$ ml II l)
1988    199    1990    1991
Finarcireng Rieirejrts 1/                 1086    1075    1093    1029
Current account deficit                 654      603      573     522
(excludring offIcial transfers)
PLblc debt aohrtizatlon                 314      282     314      360
iMf  epurchases                          90      135     106       41
Change In reserves                       27       56       70     106
Identifled Financ3lr from
Exlsting Sources 1/                       1086      592     379      212
Officlal grants                         274      180      60       30
Pitbllc iWLT loans                      850      432     319      182
Bilateral creditors                   228      115      85       54
M.ultilateral creditors               549      242      154     108
World Bait/IDA                       86       98      1G2      73
AdjuBtent lendIng                    90      102        0       0
Private creditors                      73       75       80      20
IF 2/                                     0      112     112      112
Other capital lnflow (nt)               -38        0       0        0
Expected New Soures 1/                       0      478     6e9      798
Official grants                           0       99      191     249
Ptl lc MiLT loans                         0       32      270     362
Bilateral creditors                     0      11'      132     144
iultilaral creditors                    0       9t      128     138
World BarlcIDA                        0       7z      104     108
Private creditors                       0       25       10      80
Other capital Inflow(net)                 0       33      56       73
Total 4isblEusnt 1/                       1088    1068    1008    1008
FI,rnci rgap                                 0        8      56       21
1/ iDie to differenes In source. data In this table may oat correspri to data
preseted In other tables.
V  Stand-4,  SAF and CFF in 1988. ESAF In 198991.
Souce: Staff estlutes.



- 33-                                            Annex 1
ENYA   -   EKUML CWITAL MOMPage 7 of 9
(O   e11111mwl at Crrmnt Prlow)
lcaI                      Prof Is.                     Projectias
A. D irl                                                     1nwa  1990    1131   1914    im  18  98  lo  199 1s   1981    11     199w
1. Ptb It & PoIillly  W. LT        w      7         516 i    21       84'    449       591     575      600    7iZ        47     7
01,27141                     3        :     crdtr                        21S                      514      $ 8       W
O91ffla edwhltm
Bi fwt~
Pri    .Ceditors 
3: POk$ rSkete                     28   A   51                       2 6t   A   M    A   J   J   4  SR
l.a fP dIS                         78      142       47      125       O1
B. PA_/WW
1. P.IC & PbCY lyOw. LT            83      160      218     259      258      301      359     353      348      379     370      337
Official  edltr              33 I              38      121      147     185      224                       255      251     234
1 F&P;  Il                                                                                       4      1  
Bl812                                3        54                78                                1       103               I0
Private Creditos            243     1 126  i          13               11       15       1                12       1       1
M'tfa?WrkU         I a   la A                         a                  
|:TO1aT%%"T                      It   287  3!7  St    A                      B 30    A   ; 7   3|5   38  41   A
5: T1latm! M                               A        3T   476  485   482   41    5                       4        4        4$   4
C. interesa
1.  6iie * &fI ICIy Bw. LT        134      131      141      148     115      217      258     249      240      229      218     184
Of  iCrs editws                     I            I           11       1        177     Ii       1I       I                 b
NIlti eal a                                                                    11  1   110       1        1
dilch I&O~~~~~~~~~~5                                               SI
eXl                          4       57       4       35       49       57      S;                02               S        4
PrlvftCeditarIs                                                           F                 1       I         4       V 
MMlra? wim1                  57      47       37       S2      3        42       e         1      57       53       48      3
2. PrIvate NonOxr. LT              33       36       35       38      31       14       12       11      10       I
3. TOtal LT lnt&est                173     157      11T      199     206      231      269     280      251      2        2       1X
4.1   Serviwe O'g                   7       32I 3                      2      -         24      2        17      2             7~
5 Tota  li?l.                      181    21          21     m       248      2-       293     284      268               231 7
a/ ExcluirIg flInming go.
(cotinued on redt pap)



- 34 -                              Annex I
KONA   -   EIT1 eWItAL AM 10                      Page 8 of 9
bt.i                   Prel l.                  Projetlm
0. Exwhl o.t (MOD)IA          im      18     14      1 i                   i ImI   19=    im     1U1    in       192 7
1. Plbllo C  I  lolyl w. LT     21441   32542              3872   4482    40       420   5171  5i0        52     MOD
Frjv&% Creditws                                                  a       7      i               t      |        5
14T1 ^  c  rat *m                                         51   a    I    ; 3    -21 t
t {{dit,@    |    ;    v    v   ;35   v    J   5$   X    a    a   g~~4 54   12            J
: TOUMO; elfig2M    29'    21     3141314   415                              11 52   2     0IS    371 
waSd   T  .orel  .l  21 3.    1F .2   ?42    1F   n.2    5r5    IS.    211.OR
3~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~:               &Is    2: Tota  20 52j 120                    1: I5 1|  112: 2-5 3  1   1: 3 7     . 
TLI I,o1in'"t                                                                    
8. B0*ui IDA Rtios
Hw.,T b    ota l   (D.3)
*IOf Totl        1:       :       t       :5"E          3.      42     M       ii      1?    0:i    i:j
u > es I   Total                           271-3    3-.  2            - 2    34-5 J-7
I (B '34.3)   1.                                                        Inst;       2        4     1
1 Mimnsccsiil w ifiI tA                                               .                                320    184.8
8.     4         tto-W   Ratios  (a)
J  21      1:4 Ii                  ii     Ii1    2:4    i181:? 
5. Total (LT+lWInt.)          33.4)   35.            37.    43.    41.4     3.:39           28     34      1.
2. Tobta WintrgtEwt (b)4z
~~ ~to t~2  ~     Iattw ~~bfImd toJ~~uruds . al urvusaI   ius ulta12s



- 35 -              .                      Annex I
Page 9 of 9
KA   -   RK-C FIKlU. MM   lWDIT
Actual              Estiutes                uth Rtte A( P.A.)
FY84    FY85       FI'   R87    F8                F84    Fm5    FM        FW       FM
1. PIbllc Fln    (2sl        of W)
Cmtrai  :wiunt   MW
curret Rmpts                            22.2    V.3    22.8    22.5    23.2               10.I    11.0    18.3    15.2    18.8
rent E ldltwau                          20.8    22.4    22.7    22.9    22.1               8.4    20.5    17.3    20.7      7.2
Clrent       lant bl                     1.4   -0.1    -0.1    -0.4       1.1               ..
bwei umntIEt"sndirs                      5.9      7.3     T.0     9.0     7.5             10.1    28.0    10.8    XI.   -0.
Ovrall  lolit /                        -3.9    -5.1    -5.4    -?.6    4.0               -0.0    50.0    22.7    61.9   -9.7
Exterml Sruts                            0.7      1.7     1.0     1.3     2.1            -80.8   2.8   -29.0    47.4    81.2
Extrinal Bwi ralg, ret                   0.2      1.2   -0.9      0.4     1.1                                         .      ..
otic Finawnri, rat                       3.7      3.9     6.3     7.2     2.9              2i.4    18.4    87.1    31.0  -5.2
11. 1W  Or Credit (lntary
Sr"   Dats frm IFS)                  1911    1984    1985    I9I      1987
A. In h1iIor of $hili rUsa 1t thd ey :
11 Swly [34]                         11473   13095   129    17522   107
W*  + OussI-llny [34+351             2242t5          26959    35694   3957
Total Not Snistic Credit            295      2211B   32173   41025   49139
To 0#eriumnt (not) E32m.]           8710    956    1038    1555    1012
To OfflCial EntItles [33m]          1161    1550    1780    1790    3585
To Privat str EMU=2f]              1073   17507   21050   23683  25B2
Net Forelp AMsts 31n]                -1w      -374   -1208    -240   -2159
Othrw iti  (net) [37r]               -2490   -2159   -335    -501   -7313
S. Offsts to EqflIn of k(S:
Total Nt  mestiO Credit                 ..    93.5   220.9   100.8   204.2
Credit to brwumnt                    ..    30.0    49.4    59.0   109.7
Credit to Official Entities          ..    13.8    13.1      0.3    44.7
Credit to Prlvate Sector             ..    50.0   158.3    41.3    49.8
Net Foreli Mts                          ..    22.8   -9.6    10.0  -4.3
Met Otiw Mhsts 8 Labi IIties            ..   -16.4   -25.3   -19.8  -56.8
Iioreee In 1mE  . S s                  ..   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
1/ itl bxlpt df lit dc  nt eal  enditues  insl revenue and Wants de to
an adjitnt factor for dela  In actwl cah olwItues at the nd of
eKhfieml year. It Includs grants Ord ca  adjusimnt.



KEY FINANCIAL SECTOR DOICATORS - 1980-1998
(Koh milIon*)
1980         1981         1982          1988         1984         1985          1986         1987
A. Mnory Snd Qua,-mmey
Currency                    8,081.5       8,566.7      8,724.1      4,08a.0       4,870.8      5,087.6       o,871.1      7,667.6
Domud Deposits              66.04         7,586.8      9,029.1      9,647.8      10,982.7     10,708.1      14,499.6     15,200.6
II                          9,898.5      11,105.5     18,8t2.2     18,980.8      15,802.9     15,740.7      20,670.7     22,688.2
Time DOpeit.                0,806.5       7,266.9      7,972.1      8,484.6       9,939.1     11,198.4      14,14.6      16,70.0
MS                         16,206.0      19,864.4     21,824.8     22,865.8      25,242.0     20,929.0      85,665.5     89,666.2
05thr Items (n1t)           1,655.2       1,U8.7       1,704.0      2,475.1       2,986.5      8,0o6.6       4,9490.      7,682.4
Total                      17,680.2      19,676.1     28,029.2     24,840.4      "6,160.5     80,015.6      40,585.8     47,298.6
B. Credit
Claim  on Goverment         8,a88.6       5,676.2      9,682.5      7,629.4       6,719.9      9,560.7      14,667.1     19,864.0
Other Public Sector Claim     560.5        474.8       1,008.1      1,0S8.1       2,411.4      2,897.8       2,789.4      8,588.7
Privat Sector Claiw        11,786.7      18,025.2     14,856.6      15,879.6     16,648.7     19,418.8      22,684.0     26,666.4
Total Do_etic Credit       15,598.7      19,877.7     25,047.2     25,067.1      27,776.9     81,88O.2      40,860.5     48,58.0
Net Foreign Asseta          2,264.5         800.4     (2,019.0)      (226.6)        408.6     (1,864.4)        174.7     (1,288.1)
TOtal                      17,668.2      19,678.1     28,026.2     24,640.4      28,160.5     80,015.6      40,6$5.8     47,296.5         w
Inflation (percent) /a         11.81        24.8X         16.81        10.1U         11.05        11.4K         5.8=          7.0S
Maximum Lending Rate.:
Comrercial Banks             11.OX         14.0X        1.0X        15.0X         14.01        14.01         14.0X        14.0X
NWI.                         14.01         14.01        10.01        20.01        1H.0S         19.01         19.01        1605
Saving Deposit Rate.             .01         6.0X         10.01        12.65         12.1         11.01         11.011       11.01
Tim Deposit Rate. (Prng.)
Commercial Banks       6.8 - 7.OX  10.6 - 12.81 12.6 - 18.61 12.0 - 18.01  11.0 - 12.01 11.0 - 12.01  11.0 - 12.01  9.6 - 11.01
NBFI                   6.0 - 11.01  12.0 - 14.51 13.8 - 16.81 14.0 - 10.53  18.0 - 14.51 18.0 - 14.5  18.0 - 14.C5  10.0 - 18.51
Nominal GOP                52,649.0      00,408.0     68,215.4     76,404.2      64,860.9     98,207.2    112,804.2
_______________ - - -__ ................................... __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-
01
a-



- 37 -
Annex 3
REPUBLI OF IENIA               Page 1 of 7
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Tdspa s. '"PUw, Nairob                               TIE TREASURY
Tdupbon: l4iwbh* 33811                                   P.O. box 30007
Wbi "pW Ikm q                                                NAIROBI. KEiNY-A
".&PAE.AVAI36  0I1                          28th   Apr*i ........ .  19.
_d  deft                   i.. ........3.6/1X.?.8..^rl. ,.8 
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Barber Conable
President
International Bank for Reconst.uction
and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
U S A
Dear Sir,
LETTER OF FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY
Introduction
1.     The objectives and policies to be pursued as
part of the Governmnent of Kenya's three year programme
of economic and financial adjustment are set out in
the second year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) covering
the period 1989-91. The PFP was prepared in collabora-
tion with the staffs of the World Bank and International
Monetary Fund, and was transmitted to you on April 13,
1989. Kenya's principal objectives for the economy
over the medium term are to encourage efficient growth
which can productively absorb the rapidly expanding
labour force. This requires a stable supportive
macroeconomic environment, enhanced productivity in
agriculture and the non-farm sector and a dynamic and
competitive industrial sector to provide increased
investment and exports. The financial sector will
continue to play a pivotal role in mobilizing and
allocating the resources necessary to support this
growth. The financial Sector in Kenya is relatively
large and diverse and for the most part has developed
in a sound manner. Important reforms are necessary,
however to strengthen and deepen the financial system.
In particular, we intend to rely more on market forces
to allocate financial resources and to exercise fiscal
restraint to ensure adequate financial backing for
private investment.
Macroeconomic Policv Framework and Medium Term Programme
2.     Kenya's economic performance over the past two
decades attests to the effectiveness of the Government's
economic policies and the stability of our political



CONUIAENTIAL                       Page 2 of 7
system. GDP growth averaged 6.5 per cent from 1965-1980,
more than double the rate for other countries at a similar
level of economic development. This growth, however,
slowed significantly during the early 1980s as domestic
and external imbalances developed. By 1984, Government
had taken decisive steps to stabilize the economy,
reducing the overall budget deficit from 9.5% of GDP
in Financial Year 1980 to 4.3% in Financial Year 1984 and
containing inflation at 9% in 1984 down from 22% in 1982.
In the external sector, the current accounts deficit was
reduced from 8.4% of GDP in 1981 to 2% in 1984. The
improved external position was facilitated by flexible
management of the exchange rate and temporary import
restrictions as well as improved terms of trade.
3.     After relatively good performance in 1986, domestic
and external imbalances worsened in 1987 when the terms of
trade sharply deteriorated, putting pressure on foreign
reserves. At the same time, Government expenditures
increased and domestic liquidity was h gh. lo ameliorate
these conditions, the Government took steps to stabilize
the economy and to deepen the process of structural
adjustment. In 1988, the budget deficit was reduced to
4.2% of GDP, and monetary growth and inflation have been
firmly contained.
4.     The Government is committed to continuing its
programme of macroeconomic stabilization and structural
adjustment. For the 1989-1991 period, the Government
will; continue to adjust tne exchange rate in conjuction
with liberalization of the trade regime t'o encourage
exports; reduce the budget deficit; use non-inflationary
means of domestic finance; implement a comprehensive
budget rationalization programme; improve price incentives
and efficiency of service delivery in non-agricultural
sector; and reorient trade and other industrial incentives
to enhance efficiency and stimulate the growth in
industrial investment and exports.
5.     Further to the ongoing adjustment efforts in the
agricultural and industrial sectors, the Government of
Kenya has begun implementing a programme of reform in the
financial sector for which it seeks support from IDA.
This programme will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness
of both macroeconomic management and stabilization as well
as improving resource mobilization and allocation. The
sustainability of trade liberalization requires more
generalized, flexible instruments of monetary policy to
influence aggregate demand. At the same time, fiscal
restraint and greater integration of the financial system
will facilitate increased productive, private investment.
The Government recognizes that improved financial sector
performance depends critically on the maintenance of a
sound macroeconomic framework and is committed to ensuring
that monetary and fiscal targets are consistent with
financial sector objectives.



39                   Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
CONF ID )ENTIAL
3
Policy Reform Objectives and Programme
6.     The Government's objectives in the financial sector
are to (i) improve the efficiency of resource mobilization
and allocation; and (ii) broaden the range of financial
instruments available to savers and investors. Underpinning
these broad objectives is a firm commitment to greater
reliance on market forces in allocating financial resources
to their most productive uses. At the same time, an
improved regulatory framework, stronger supervisory
capacity and restructuring of individual institutions will
enhance the soundness and stability of Kenya's financial
system.
7.     These objectives for the financial sector will be
pursued through the policy actions described below. The
Government's financial sector reform programme contains a
number of complementary elements including fiscal and
monetary policy, banking regulation and supervision,
institutional reforms and capital market development.
Fiscal Policy
8.     As stated in Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 and
Policy Framework Paper, the Government views the reduction
of the budget deficit as central to its overall stabilization
and adjustment objectives. Through the PFP discussions with
the IMF and IDA, we have developed appropriate fiscal targets
which will result in a reduction in the budget deficit and
in Government's reliance on domestic financing. The
Government intends to reduce the cash deficit (including
grants) from 4.5 per cent of GDP in Financial Year 1989 to
4.2 per cent in Financial Year 1990 and to 3.7 per cent in
Financial Year 1991. Thereafter, the Government will reduce
the cash deficit to a more sustainable level of 3.2 per cent
of GDP.  It also aims at sharply reducing domestic
financing of the deficit during the same period. In
conjunction with containing the overall level of expenditures,
we are improving the effectiveness and efficiency of public
spending through a budget rationalization programme which
emphasizes operations and maintenance expenditures over those
for personnel, public capital formation and parastatal
transfers.
9.     To accomplish these deficit reduction objectives,
revenue collection is expected to increase through
revisions to sales taxes and excise tariffs, introducing
user charges for health, education and other public services
and strengthening the tax administration system. On the
expenditure side, the Government has introduced ceilings
on public sector salaries in the 3-Year Forward Budget,
begun to rationalize housing benefits to civil servants
and curtailed hiring at lower grades.



- 40 -
Annex 3
CONFII)ENTIAL     Page 4 of 7
4
Monetary Policy
10.    The Government recognizes that successful
implementation of its trade liberalization and sectoral
adjustment programmes requires reliance on more indirect,
generalized instruments of monetary policy to support
its efforts in managing domestic demand and external
imbalances. The Government has already begun to move
in this direction, introducing a 6% cash ratio for
commercial banks in 1986, activating a Central Bank
discount facility in early 1988, and initiating the
auction of Treasury bonds of 1-5 year maturities in 1988.
The Central Bank is presently developing measures to
stimulate secondary markets for government securities,
thus enhancing the effectiveness of monetary policy and
contributing to capital market development.
11.    Under the programme, the Government will begin to
move toward a reserve money management system rather than
reliance on credit ceilings to conta.a monetary growth.
Beginning in April, 1989, the Central Bank will be
responsible for undertaking the requisite monetary
programming exercise in close collaboration with the
Treasury. The Monetary Policy Committee will then use
this information to select the appropriate instruments and
interventions to achieve monetary policy objectives. At
the same time, we are improving the efficacy of various
monetary instruments including the auction of government
securities, the use of liquidity and reserve ratios, and
the discount facility. These actions will be taken in
close collaboration with advisors from the IMF and the
World Bank.
Interest Rate Policy
12.    The Government is committed to maintaining positive
interest rates and to allowing market determination of
interest rates. Interest rates have been positive since
1984 and nominal commercial bank spreads have increased
from 3% to 5% while spreads for non-banks have been more
closely aligned with those of commercial banks.
13.    Under the financial sector adjustment programme,
the Government will move further in its objectives of
establishing a market-oriented interest rate structure.
In April, 1989, the Government increased the maximum
commercial bank lending rates to 18% for loans with
maturities greater than four years, thus bringing it in
line with the maximum rate for near-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs). During 1990, the Government will
review the experience with generalized monetary policy
instruments and agree with IDA on appropriate steps to
establish a more market-driven interest rate structure,



- 41-                   Annex 3
CO0NFii)W.ENTl'^AL    Page 5 of 7
5
while ensuring that savings deposit rates remain positive
in real terms, Administered interest rates will be
liberalized by June, 1991. Further, by April, 1989,
parastatals will be required to pay market equivalent
interest rates on Government loans, making any subsidies
transparent in Government and parastatal accounts.
Banking Regulations
14.    The Government recognizes that the current regulatory
framework for financial intermediaries has contributed to
a weakening in the structure of the sector and reduced the
efficiency of intermediation. In amendments to the Banking
Act in 1985 through 1988, the Government has taken steps to
rationalize the regulatory distinctions (and degree of
supervision) between banks and NBFIs, increase minimum
capital requirements, establish a Deposit Protection Fund
(DPF) and extend Central Bank supervision authority to
building societies.
15.    The Government has recognized that further regulatory
reforms are necessary to strengthen public confidence in
the banking system, improve the efficiency of financial
intermediation and foster financial prudence and discipline.
Consequently, the Government has undertaken a detailed
review of the existing Banking Act, Central Bank Act, and
other relevant legislation and regulations and has substan-
tially redrafted the Banking Act. By July 1989, a revised
Banking Bill will be tabled in Parliament. Among other
things, the revisions should (i) strengthen the Central
Bank's ability to intervene expeditiously in troubled
institutions; (ii) set out appropriate prudential
suoervision and reporting requirements; and (iii) enable
the Central Bank to impose penalties on financial institu-
tions which do not meet the requirements of the Banking
Act.
Capital Markets
16.    The Government is actively seeking means of
stimulating the development of long term debt and equity
markets, recognizing the role capital markets can play
in improving resource allocation, enhancing financial
stability, broadening ownership and facilitating diverstiture
of selected government enterprises. The Government has
recently established the Capital Markets Development Advisory
Council composed of concerned private and public sector
individuals. The primary task of the Council is to draft
enabling legislation for the Capital Markets Development
Authority (CMDA) which will be charged with promoting the
growth of capital markets and conduct ongoing discussions
with the business community and relevant government agencies
to identify impediments to the issuance and holding of
securities. We expect the CMDA legislation to be tabled in
Parliament by June 1989 and for the CMDA to be operational
during 1989.



- 42 -        A.           Annex 3
CONF1DF,NT1             ~~~~Page 6 of 7
6
17.    By April 1990, the CMDA and Government will propose
steps to reduce tax disincentives to holding and issuing
securities and encourage greater participation of insurance
companies and other institutional investors in private
securities markets. It will also implement appropriate
investor protection measures.
Institutional Strengthening
18.    The Government recognizes that development of the
financial system depends critically on maintaining sound,
health financial institutions. The Central Bank needs to
strengthen its capacity to supervise a large number of
depository institutions and to intervene and restructure
troubled institutions.  In addition, an expanded cadre of
qualified banking professionals is necessary. The Central
Bank has augmented its prudential supervision capabilities
by hiring qualified staff, installing a computerized offsite
surveillance system, and upgrading bank inspection guidelines.
The Government is alsc increasing the quality and coverage
of supervision by revising bank reporting requirements to
incorporate more det iled performance indicators, refining
examination and ins ection procedures and developing
appropriate loan classification and provisioning guidelines.
These measures will be completed by April 1989. The Central
Bank has also devised a comprehensive staff development
programme for bank supervision staff to be supported by IDA
and other donors.
19.    A number of depository institutions are in financial
distress due to inadequate capitalization, significant non-
performing assets, poor management, and substandard operating
procedures. While the above measures will assist in alerting
the Central Bank to potentially troubled institutions and in
preventing future difficulties, some institutions currently
experiencing financial distress will require direct inter-
vention to maintain public confidence in an otherwise sound
financial system. The Central Bank is conducting audits of
these troubled institutions and is preparing detdiled
action programmes for their restructuring. In the context
of this financial sector adjustment programme, the Government
has discussed with IDA a comprehensive restructuring programme
for ten of the weakest institutions in the system. It is
expected that implementation of this programme will begin
during 1989.  By mid-1990, the Government will agree with IDA
on further actions to restructure or strengthen other marginal
institutions, which will also be implemented under the
programme.



%'ON FI iN)t'NTtAL               Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
7
20.    The Government is moving forward in establishing
a college of banking and finance (CBF) to enlarge the
cadre of qualified banking professionals. This training
facility will be open to all financial instititions,
providing training for securing professional accreditation,
as well as short-term job-related courses in various
aspects of bank management. To date, administrative staff
have been hired, temporary facilities secured and pilot
curriculum have been developed. The CBF is now finalizing
its investment and financing plan and will seek assistance
from IDA and other donors for building its permanent
facilities.
Yours sincerely,
MINISTER FOR I



FDUWCKL S-M Db*ISII UIT
ACTION                                TImI                  CoZUT             STATS AND
A. FISCAL POLICY
UPrO  rorce allocation               Agreement on FY90-91 budget            Apl, 1189             Board             After peakiln  at 7.63 of MP
and support stabilization             deficit and domesbic financing                              Presentatlo.      In FY97, the Governm
etorts by reducing the               tergea under the PFP and                                                        educed Its budgt deficit
Governmnt's burden on the             stisfactory progro  toward                                                    (including grents) to 4.23 In
finacial system.                      cmting the FY9 targts.                                                        FY88. Under the PFP, the
Qovernment io Comitted to
Setitfctory performance In            June, 1990            Second            r duIng the cash d tleit from
FY80 aainst agre_d targets                                  Tranche           4.53 of GOP in FY89, to 4.23
for budget and domestic                                                       In FY90 and to 8. 7  1n FY91.
flonncing  nd satlsfactory                                                    Theroafter, the Coerment
torgets for FY91 ounder the                                                   expects the csh deftlit to
pfP.                                                                          fefll to about 8.2Y of GP.  It
also *Ini at sharply reducing
domestic financing of the
def iclt during the sase
period.
To accomplish It. doeleit
reduction objectiveo, revenue
colloction 1i expected to
Incres  from 23.23 of GDP in
FY98 to 24.53 In FYP2 through
revisins to s*les taxes and
exele tariffs, Introducing
user ehargs for bhltb,h
education and other public
services nd strengthening tax
administration systems. On
the expenditure side, the
Government hs Introduced
e ilings on pubilc sector
salaries In the 8-year forwnrd
budget, begun to rationlisze
housing benefits to clvil
*ervants and sharply reduced
hiring at loowr gra de. In
the PFP, Gowernmnt Intnds to
lncren   In real terms non-
wage operating and maintentAnc
expnditore   n priority arese
d gradully rede  the share
to the bdgt geins to
0



-2-
KEY REFORM AREAS                       ACTION                                 TINDIG                CONDITION          STATUS AND
ND OBJECTIVES--                        PW                                                           Fbs                RECNRTxOm
B. DNTEREST RATES AND
MONEARY POLICY
Improv, resource *I loctlon            Maintain positive reel rates           Conti  u              Board              Interet rates have reaned
nd mobillzatlon to support             for savings and lending.                                     Presentation       positiven r ml tbe   xsince
growth obj ectives ond                                                                                                 114.  In 1964-98, the
ociIltt  more efficlent                Increase the maximum Iendng            Ap,ll  1989           Board              Oovetn  nt loered the maximum
Investmnt. Meure  Include              rate for co_mercial banks to                                 Prneentation       lending rati for WBFI  and
gret er rolTnce on market-             16# for loans with maturitlos                                                   raised the mximu  lending
determined Interoet retes,             of 4 years or more.                                                             rate for commernial banks to
elimination of distortion.                                                                                             begin to harmonize rates
created by differentiated rate         Review experience with                 June, 1990            Second             beteeOn theo two close  of
structures and mintenance of          gonra lized monetary policy                                   Trnch.o            institutions. The spreat
positive real rates on savings         Instruments and agree with IDA                                                  between the sinimm sav ng"
and lending Instruments,               on appropriate stepo to                                                         deposit rate and the maximu
establih a more mrket-dorlvn                                                    landing rat  mm Iner _ d
Move tward uing genralized             interet rate structure while                                                    during 19W  to enourag
indirct monetary policy               maintilning *svings deposit                                                      greater term transformation
instrument, for domestic               rates which are positive In                                                     and faciltlte greater
dmand manageo   t and extrnal          re al term.                                                                     floxIbilIty In Toan pricing.
blance In support of trade                                                                                             The Government bh  gazetted
lIber  I zalton.                      Allow Int rest rates to be              June, 1991            Disburseent of   the Increas  of the mt_xlm
m*rket-determined.                                           final US810        lending rate for commrcial
mIllIon frm       banks to 161 for longer-trom
Inetitutional     loen.
Restructuring
Component         During 1988, the Truesury bill
and bond auction w*  activeted
and Government began to lesm
a broaedr rnge of ratesrttlo
of Treasury bondo.  It ig
taking nstpn to mak the
auteon more tran perent and
market-driven. It bos *lse
raised the lnterest rates for
redlscounting *nd lending,
wIth the rate olIculoted by
adding a margin to the max-im
rat*e ccpte iIn the meet
recant treasury bill tender.
The Govrrment elso introduced
a eab ratio In 186.
0
o 9,



IIF MMF Ann                         ACT CIlON             ST1US                    N      I      ort             61
M-95ALTIi Ram                                                                           s             RE Tff
(cont'd)
plemt mon.ery programing            Ap, 1189             Bood              ThX  Monetary Policy Comeittee
a ctivate, e of moetbary                                 Presentebion      ase etab1lie  la 1988 and
policy Instr.et throug  the                                               meat regulrly to dislcss
Sonsury Policy Comittee.                                                  monery and fiscal policy
issues. With aeatenc  frm
'Me W, the  eversnt Is
beuinning to deolop a
fissmos for tapiel_elg
Strengthn *tendering m_acn  .        Aptils *            Bord
*0. Trery bllsed1.                                       Presentation
mare pequiv le   to pey      prne         180            Boned             The Government has aI re*dy
_me  1t.1 Iwiv t interest                                Pre0ontatlon      ben to define lon term  for
rate  to aovrnment, "hi                                                    pes undefine  lewing aDo I*
any subeldien trarspe    n                                                 stebiehing a *yoyd  for
O.vn_  at and pereetatl                                                    mitering the prferOne  of
accont.                                                                    p  erattl lean.
0
*1%



KEY REFORM AREAS           ~~~ACTION                               TIMIN                CITON             SAU  S
Ais OBJECTIVES                        FRO_go _A__I
C. SANKINQ RELAATORY
REFORM - LEGAL FRAMEN
Isprove the efficiency ef            Prepare   draft of revised             April, 198           Board             A prelilinary draft of the n
In ncial intermedlation by            Banking liII wbhch amo  ether                              Pr esntatlon       Banking  1il bhe been r vieowd
creting a more level                  thing  should (1) atr  _                                                      by IDA taf  nd found
_omp eitlv environment,              the Central aBnk's abil tyto                                                  generally satisfsctory.  The
lnterven expedlltwuly In                                                    draft Includes considerable
Uake financial transactions           troublod lnetltutione;  i1)                                                   enhncement of the Central
more transparent and Increase        set out approprinte prudential                                                 Banks oability to Inspect
conIdence in the financall            *uperviston and reporting                                                     lnstitution., set out
s*ste.                                requirements ad () enble                                                      reporting, audit and
the Central lank to tipose                                                    provislon  requiremnte,
Foster finsncial prudenc   nd         penaltieo  on financial                                                       Intervene In troubled
discipline by strengthening           institutions which do not  eet                                                Institutions. establish
the supOeviory peers of the           the rquirement of the                                                          pproprieo  capital adequacy
Central Bank, making licensing       BSnking Act.                                                                   requirement  nd xposure
criterla more stringent,                                                                                            limits (including  dvances to
loproving enforement and             Isue regulations which link            June, 1990           Second            directors and awsocoated
providing the Central Sank            capital adequacy rquiremnt                                  Tranche,          compnios), 11imt the paymnt
lth more tethb  In dealing            to aseot  (nct of prvisions,                                                  of dlvidend   nd as
*ith financial Institutions.          deprocaltlon and wrteoffs)                                                    palties agoanst lnstitutions
and require bonks *nd NBFI to                                                fre 1,  to moot Banking Aft
maIntal" eapital  of 7.61 of                                                  requirmonO. It *I se* ets 
assets  Including off balanc                                                  out the criteria *nd
sheet It.'m.                                                                  reglation  for the
establishment of mortga
ftinance    apnis and
strenghns the leps
framwork for the Deposit
Protection Fund. The final
drat In expected to be
completed In April end thon
reviewe by the Attorney
eeoae* Offitce. It is
expted tht the revised SI Il
ml I be tabled In Pariment
by July, 1989.
: I
lb



A&M WJWECTrOME  ~ACTION                                            TIMING               CONDMTON            U
-RDrC|JgCTtFE--  ERWChAS                                   FORs              RECENVT  TDON
D. BANKDO REGULATION-
DNSTITUTIONAL
Strengthen the Centrol Bank's         Develop standardized financlol        April, 1980          Boord              Conult aIts financed under on
eupervisory capabilitloe  and         reporting formt. In                                        Presntatton        Sm  have a uisted the Control
clarlty reporting requiremnts         coperation with the banking                                                   Bank In eetablishing o
of financial Institqti.e, so          and accounting Industries,                                                   computerized off-site
so to foster greater                                                                                                survleilOnce  Y*yt4m,
transparency and financial           Develop written examination            Aprll, 1969          Board              developing written exatnation
diciplinoe                           and inspection prowdure.                                   Prntation           nd ipection procdures *nd
training Central Bank taff.
Dewelop appropriae1                                                           StAndardled fn neBolo
provisioning guidelinoe.                                   PrAtBr onr        reporting formats and
provisoning Guidelines have
discussed  with the
Insitutes of bankers and
chartee  accountarts end
i_aed. NM exainatlon and
lispection procedr es have
also ben implemnted.
Incranose nuer of qua lIfi d          April, 19            Bord               Twelve new  tff amber. were
examination and supervision                                Prentation         recruited in 1968-8. The
taf  to permit timly and                                                     Central Bonk has formlaotd o
regulor Inspections and                                                       comprehensIve stff
offlte surveIllance. Devlop                                                 devlopment prgram for all
a suitablo training progra                                                   Bunking Supervson  t
for all spervilsion and                                                       including a detaie  trainin
examination Btff.                                                             pro       The training progr
will be supported by IDA'.
Financial Secor technicel
Assistanc  Credit ad other
donors,
co
0



KEY REFORII AREAS                     ACTION                                TIMINO                CONDITIO          STATUS AN
AND 0JECTIVES                             Rl FR:                                                                    RION
E. INSTITUTIONAL
RESTRUCMII
Increase confidene In and            Proentation to IDA of action           April, 1989          Beord              The Coenmnt ha prepared a
enhane the soundness of the           program for at least thre                                  Presenttion        dotailed progra  for
banking *yotm by                      in=tittions.                                                                  restruetring ton of th
restructuring financially                                                                                           weakest institutions  hich
distr sed deposltory                  Agre with IDA on further              June, 1990            Scond             has been evi d *lth DA
Institutions.                        actions to restructure or                                   Tranche            staff and found gmnsra ly
strengthen marinal                                                            *streurgs       etod t
Institutions.                                                                   r tr   rlng Is etimated to
requIre USSSO m illon
equivalent In fresh funding
frPM the Deposit Protection
Fund and Wil be supported by
the institutional
restructuring cm      tof the
Finncitl Secto't AdJusteat
Credit. In additiont the
oerntment la now seeking
dvisere for lmpletIng this
restrucuring pogrm, who
II be fundd undr the
Financial Sector Tchnticel
Assistance Credit.                '0
Oa
00>
0'



7 -
KEY REPURMl AEAS                     ACTION                                TIM                  CGImON            STAlS me
ND USJECTIVES                        PEEu                                    -                                    RECEUTXYI.O
F. CAPITAL MARKETS
Breadon and deep_n capitol and       Agre with IDA on appropriate          June, 19             Second            oovernwnt hoa estabislhed a
menoy arkets by Incresing            form of taxbtlon on financil                               Trench            coencil of hi.h-nrakind pubtlic
coepetition In Oovernmont            lnetrumenrt.                                                                 and privat sector led viduale
securities mrkefts                                                                                                to identify existing
enouraging the dwelopimet Of         Implet appropriate investor               ,1990            Second            lmpden  to toe develo_pmt
secondary mrkea and                  protection  _ouree.                                        Trance            of capital mrkete nd to
Improving the incentive  for                                                                                      draft eabling legislation for
private capital Issues.                                                                                           the Capital Market
Development Authority (CMA).
By Jun, IWO a bill to
stabi lsb the CMDA ml11 be
tabled In Parliamet, and the
CDA Is expected to become
operatlonal during lo9.
Simultaneous with the CMA
becoming  oprtionl, the rolo
of the Capital is*"e
Comlttes in seting swhre
Priae of domesile .oopntnle
wIll be discontinued.
00
0
t,t
jl



Annex 3
-51 -                             Page 1 of 1
KENYA
Financial Sector Adiustment Credit
Timetable of Key Loan Processing Events
Time taken to prepares              Ten months
Prepared bys                        The Government of Kenya with IDA
assistance
First IDA missions                  January, 1988
Appraisal Mission departures        November, 1988
Date of Negotiations:               April 26, 1989
Planned Date of Effectiveness:      July 31, 1989
Second Tranche Conditions:
In addition to satisfactory progress in implementing the Government's
overall adjustmenc program and the financial sector adjustment program, the
following actions would be taken prior to tranche release:
(1)   Satisfactory performance in FY90 against agreed budgetary targets and
satisfactory targets agreed for FY91 under the PFP;
(2)   Interest  rates:  Review experience with generalized monetary policy
instruments and agree with IDA on further steps to establish a more market-driven
Interest structure while maintaining savings deposit rates which are positive
in real terms.
(3)   Issue regulations that link capital adequacy requirements for all financial
institutitons to assets (net of provisions, depreciation and writeoffs).
(4)   Agree with IDA on further actions to restructure or strengthen other
marginal institutions; and
(5) Capital markets: Agree with IDA on appropriate form of taxation on
financial instruments and implement appropriate investor protection measures.
Conditions of Disbursement for Institutional RestructurinR Component:
(1)   Establishment of a Special Account into which the Government will deposit
K Sh counterpart funds to reimburse the Deposit Protection Fund for restructuring
financial institutions under action programs agreed with IDA.
(2)   Final SDR 8 million of Institutional Restructuring Component will be
disbursed when Government has liberalized interest rates.



Annex 6
- 52 -                                       Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credit, a of March 81 1060
---41-USS Mil ion-
Asount (Lose Cancel lotions)
Loan or                                                                                  Undis-
Credit No  Year    Borrower Purs                                  Bank         IDA       bured
Forty three (48) Loane, of which six were cancelled, thirty-slx
(B8) Credits and two (2) Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed*      626.82        467.95
1107       1981    Knya      Fifth Education                                    40.00    16.98
2099       1982    Kenya     Forestry III                         11.60                   6.60
1287       1982   Kenya      Cotton Proc. A Marketing                           22.00    8$.0
1288       1982    Kenya     Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning                                  23.00     9.88
887        198     Kenya     National Extenalon                                 16.00     7.27
2819       1983   Ken        Secondary Towns                       7.00                   8.98
1890       1988    Kenya     Secondary Towns                                    22.00    18.41
2859       1984   Keny       Klmbere Hydroelectric                95.00                  24.09
2409       1964    Kenya     Second Highwy Sector                  6.00                   8.65
PF17       1964   Keny       Second Highway Sector                              40.00   48.07
1486       1984   Kenya      Geothermal Exploration                             24.60     6.69
1568       1985    Kenya    Water Engineering                                    0.00     2.64
2674       1986   Kenya      Third T I ecommunications            82.60                  21.00
1078       1986    Kenya     Sixth Education                                    87.50   48.90
1675       1980   Kenya      Petroleum Explor. Tech. Assist.                     6.00     6.27
1718       1066    K nya    Aglc. Sector Management                             11.60    8.86
1780       1987   Kenya      KE 2nd Small Scale Industry                         0.00    0.67
1758       1987   Kenya      Animal Health Services                             16.00    14.98
1820       1967    Knya      Second Railway                                     26.00   20.07
1649       1988   Kenya      Agriculture Research                               19.00    19.91
A0860      1998    Kenya     Indus. Sector Oper.                                10.00       -
1004       1986    Kenya     Population III                                     12.20    11.8S
1927-0     1988   Kenya      Indus. Sect. Oper.                                102.00   40.08
1927-1     19B9   Kenya      Indus. Sect. Oper.                                 58.70    53.48
1978       1989    Kenya     Geotherm l Dev.                                    40.70    40.82
1974       1969   Kenya      Rural Services                                     20.80    20.02
Totel                                 977.92      656.50  400.12
of which has been repaid            282.44        14.00
Total now outstanding                 T9r5.48      13NiB
Amount sold
of which has been repaid             11.74
TOTAL now held by Sank and IDA                  684.44       1008.48
TOTAL undisbursod                                62.53        400.12  402.65
o In addition, Kenya was on of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which were extended for the development of common service (railways, ports,
telecommunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three
partner etates of the former East African Community (EAC).



Annex 6
- 53 -                                      Page 2 of 2
8. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as of
March 31. 1988
Fiscal Yeor        Obligor                       Type of Business        Amount In US$ Million
Loa       Equity    TO" J
1987,1966,         Kenya Hotol Properties        Hotels               5.2      0.7        6.9
and 1978
1970,1974,         Pon African Poper Mills       Pulp and Paper      25.7      6.8        32.0
1977,1979
and 1981
1972               Tourism Promotion Services    Hotels               2.4      -/         2.4
1978               Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.     Textiles             8.8      2.8         9.1
1977               Kenya Commrcial Bank Ltd.    Capital Market        2.0       -          2.0
196O               Development Finance           Development Finance  5.1      1.8        8.4
Company of Kenya Ltd.
19#1               Kenya Commrctal Finance       Money A Capital Lkt  5.0       -         6.0
1082               Bamburl Portland              Cement A Construct. 4.4        -         4.4
cement Co., Ltd.              material
1982               Diamond Trust of Kenya        Money & Capital Mkt   -       0.6        0.0
Llmited
1982,19#7          Industrial Promotion          money a Capital Ukt   -       2.0        2.0
Services (Konya) Ltd.
1988               Tetra Pak Converters          Pulp a Paper Prod.   2.2      0.4        2.0
Limited
1984               Leather Industries of         lanning              2.1      0.6        2.7
Konya Limited
1986              MUdhu Paper International      Pulp a Paper Prod.  37.1       2.0      89.1
Limited
1988               Equatorial Beach              Tourism              6.6       -         6.8
Proprties
1960
Oil Crop Development Ltd.                          907       1.4      11.1
Total Gross Comitments                           1121 89.8           181.1
le"s cancellations, terminations,
reopyments and sales                              89 8       80       9S 8
Total Cosmitments now hold by IFC                 23.2      12.8      86.6
Total Undisbursed                                  1.5       1.2       2.7
/ 844,9B7



Annex 7
- 54 -                             Page 1 of 3
Methodology for Estimating Losses
Arising from Liquidation of Troubled Institutions
1.          Risk Grouping.  Analysis of balance sheets and income statements
during 1986-1988 provided the basis for assigning each bank and NBPI to one of
eight risk groups as shown in Table 1. Emphasis was given to liquidity, capital
adequacy, loan loss reserves, and excess dependence on parastatal deposits.
Table 1: Risk Ratings
Number of
Group       General Description                               Institutions
1         Major Banks of National Interest                        4
2         Branches/Subsidiaries of major
multinational banks                                   4
3         Branches/Subsidiaries of other sound
institutions                                        19
4         Generally sound domestic institutions                  15
5         Significant deficiency in capital or
liquidity                                            4
6         Significant deficiency in capital and
liquidity                                            6
7         Major deficiencies in capital and/or
liquidity                                           11
8         Insolvent                                               7
9         New, unrated institutions                               7
377



- 55 -                             Page 2 of 3
2.          Assessment of Asset Coverage.  The liquidation analysis focused on
the 28 institutions in Groups 5-8. Cash or equivalent assets were treated as
100 percent recoverable for all institutions, and shareholders equity was taken
as zero. The remaining non-cash or equivalent assets were adjusted according
to the percentages shown in Table 2. These assets include net loans, advances,
and bill discounted, deposits with domestic banks and NBYIs, Investments, Foreign
Assets, Net Fixed Assets and Other Assets.
Table 2: Asset Valuation Rankings
(Percentages)
Optimistic              Pessimistic
Group                    Scenario                 Scenario
5                           90                       80
6                           80                       70
7                           65                       50
8                           40                       10
3.          Using these valuations, the gap between total liabilities and
realizable assets for each class of institutions was calculated, as shown in
Table 3 below. Total liabilities for these 4 groups amounted to KSh8.9 billion,
against Ksh579 million in cash equivalent assets and between KSh6.4 billion under
the optimistic scenario and KSh4.0 billion in the pessimistic scenario. The
analysis in Table 3 goes one step further in separating out private sector
liabilities from those of the Government and parastatals. It is assumed that
Government will treat the KSh2.0 billion it has invested in these institutions
through loans and deposita as a great cost and will not seek compensation (at
least until all private creditors have been satisfied).



- 56 -                             Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
Table 3: Calculation of Losses
(KSh million)
Total                                             Net
liabil-   Total      GOK      Private    Total    Private
Risk     ities    assets   liabil-   liabil-    Liquid   liabil-
Category   (BV)       (BV)     ities      ities     Assets    ities
CB-5       2104        2269        260         1844         189        1655
CB-6        396         501        114          282          29         253
CB-7        197         238         51          146           3         143
Total         2697        3008        425         2272         221        2051
NBP_-5        831         838          3          828          52         776
NBFI-6       1448        1569        294         1154         142        1012
NBFI-7       2305        2408        662         1643         124        1519
NBPI-8       1637        1684        615         1022          40         982
Total         6221        6499       1574         4647         358        4289
Grand
Total       8918        9507      1999         6919          579       6340
Net
Private    Assets                            Opti-       Pessi-
Risk     Liabil-   for Re-    Opti-       Pessi-     mistic      mistic
Category   ities      covery     mistic    mistic       losses     losses
CB-5       1655        2080      90.0?        80.0Z       (217)            (9)
CB-6        253         472      80.0S        70.02       (125)           (77)
CB-7        143         235      65.O        50.02        (10)           (26)
Total         2051        2787                               (351)           (61)
NBFI-5        776         786      90.02        80.02          69            147
NBPI-6       1012        1427      80.0?        70.02       (130)             13
NBFI-7       1519        2284      65.0S        50.02          34            377
NBPI-8        982        1644      40.0?        10.02         324            818
Total         4289        6141                                 298           1355
Grand
Total       6340        8928                                (54)           1294



Prosronn Under Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (IDA Credit No. 1717-CE. apsrovod in FY 39O8)
OBJECTVES                                   ACTIONS TAEN                           COMMENTS
Improve aricultural Input         Improvemwnt In fi rtilixer pol1c1is, periodic            Increauen In retell esed prie. 
euppl i.e,.specially              adjustment In fortilizer prices, n nd inrea en           and chrgoe ftor the Governmnt
fertilizers for                   in user charge  for varlou animal helth                  tractor hire servie have not
omallbolders.                     servicee and sed certification havo ben                  been Implemented. Retail  sed
satisfactorily mt.                                       prime  are under review.
Government Intende to pbhs out
tractor hiro service.
Maintain adeate producer          Producer prices raise  each yer, taking Into             Improvd coffee paynt *ySt0M
Incentive, and support            account border prices and the need to mintain            has been developed and stepe were
decontrol of agricultural         producer lncentive. Beef price were                      taken during 1988 to maks it
prics,                            decontrollId In 1967 and thos  of UlT mlIk In            operational on a pilot basis.
1988. Payments to farmors for mjor commodities
have been speeded up, with the exception of
coffee.
Improve marketing                 Iplemetation of major financial and                      Some deloys In the recruitment of
*rrnement. and reduce             organizational restructuring of NCPS underway            snior staff as part of tho
financale  burden on the          with support from EEC. Key element has been              organizational restructuring of                       >
budget of grain marketing         decision to allo  cooperatives and traders to            NCPS has affected the pac  of the
operations.                       buy directly from farmers and *"ll up to 20X of          reforms.
marketed mal to ml lere during FY39. NCPB'n
role to be lmited to buyer of last resort and
meeting food security objective.
Reduce budgetary burden of        In addition to NCPB, orgonizational rform                Budget    prsures delayed the
ariculture prastoatls             underway In SONY and NIB. Uplnds Bacon and               financia  restructurlng of SONY
through restructuring,            Kenya Meat Commission cead operation. In 1987.           and NIB, but they *re now
divestiture, and                                                                           underway.
strengthening management.
Improv  agricultural              AFC h   adopted improved lending poliees, Is             Government reviewing proponsl for
credit policie                    giving priority to emalholderc end has                   financial restructuring of AFC.
harmonized donor-supported cred;t shemes _under
consistent trms a*nd conditions.
RationalItze publlc               Budget. over the post two years have Increased
expenditure. In the sector        reources to priority activities and budget
and Improve efficiency of         po edre  hav   e  improved.
reoureo Use.
00o
00
01



Prosm.. Under Industrial Sector Adjustmnt Credit  nbA Credlt No. 192t-4. asoroved tn fT 198
OBJECTiES                 ACTIONS TAKUE  FOR 1S  TRANCHE RELEASE                               C_1MENTs
I) |n slizton
nreo tb  ouec d                   Lie nsing sch dules reorganized to fact Iltate           For second trenche relee,
orientation and offetl  ny        li bre .    et"on. Iports In revised Soct,dule IM3
of  the irdetril sector                                                                    wll b  license  without
by making protection              Items In Schedulon I, It and IIIA, accounting            restrlction after the Imposition
transparent, oven across          for eox of *11 ltem  and 8SX of *II Imports in           of  qulvlnt tariffs.  Number of
subsectore and lor.               1987, 11 ,es  without rstrlctlon provided               tarif ategorlos will be
certain technical criterla met.  System to               further reduced to 12.
monltor and provide Informtion on llcnsing
system has ben Instituted.
Number of tariff categories reduced from 25 to
17 and tariffs rational zed so that *imilar
goods beer similar toriffs. Most specific
toriffs convertOd to ad valorem rates.
2)  !=rt Promotion
Expnd and diVeriTfy               Guideline  and procedures Issued for                     Administration and coverso of
Keny's manufactured               manufacturing-in-bond  asuring acces  to                 existing export co penstion
xports to reduce relionce         foreign exchange within  e  week,                        scheme wiII be I proed.
on coffee and tea.
Investment allowanceo Increased to lOOX for              Donor financing Is being sought
manufacturlnog-in-bond.                                  for EPZe at *Itee near Nairobi
and omboes.
Study to des in a medlum-term
*xport promotion progrm has been
completed Nd Itt finding  are to
be Implemeted for second tranche
release.
8) Price Controls
R  ducm  ri -nc  on'              Prices decontrolled for 20 out of 40 product             All conditlon  for second trenche
adeinistered pricon,              roup.  Produoer  of remoining products under             lIreedy met.
making more use of market         price control will ree   apprOVal/reJection of
foram to Incr es                  pric chane*ppication within 90 days of
investmnt and efflclncy.           ubmis son. R estr ve Trad  Practlcou and
Price Control Act p ad that rde fines monopoly
and liite the imposition of prlie controls to
Item produced under monopoly or traded under
restrictive conditions.
00
0
et1I
wlO



4) In wetM9at Inc nel w
Promot* inv stnt shrough          Effective corporate tax rate lowered by Increase         No Second Tranche Conditions.
more coepetlilvw tax              In investmnt ellewanee  and change In treatnt
Inconti ve  and                   of foreln excban  loseos on foreln curr ncy
*trem linin, of                   loans.  One step invetmt center *estbilshd
administrative                    and Investment gutdelinc  t #Ued.
requrenta.
Foreign Innvetmnt Protection Act amended to
*ase trantfere of capital pine. Cloer criteria
established tor work permit opplications.
)  Finncinl Sector and
Develop *lt  IVatiw               Discount facilIty h   b coom  operative at the           For second trench. reles, x        iill
Instruments for manging           tantral Bank.                                            establishing CUDA will be
em dometle money supply                                                                    Introduced In Perilu  nt. Review
and foresin reserve.              Hsgh-ranking Council of private sector and               of pricing of newly iosse  shares
Broaden th  rang  of              aovernment officials established to drft                 for doeme(,,  cm pnies wil be
financiol instrumwnts             legislation for Capital Oarkets Development              discontinue   when CA Is
vai lable for private             Authority (ChDA).                                        stablIsh d.
sector Inveswtmnt.
6)  Indstrial Public
Entorn,los  (eft
Proot  prinvt  *octcor en         No Board Preentation Condition.                          Govoernw t will Implement an
the engine of lndustial                                                                    improved performance monltor'ng
rowth by confining public                                                                  syst   for DPE  retained in the
enterprises to essentiol                                                                   public sector.  SOudlo to
Government service  and                                                                    formulate action programstor
strategic invostments.                                                                     restructurIng thr  develomnt
finaHce institutions andi the
divestiture/restructuring Ot
their portfolios have been
completed. Fer secKond tranceb
release Government will agree
with IDA on tese programn and
begin implementation.
t I.
.3 
o0



Annex 9
- 60-                               Page 1 of 2
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING COMPONENT
1.          The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) includes a US$ 40
million institutional restructuring component to support the Central Bank's
efforts to revitalize the financial system. Under the FSAC, important reforms
will be undertaken in the areas of interest rate and monetary policy, banking
regulation and supervision and capital markets development. At the same time,
as outlined in Part IV of the President's Report, a number of banks antd NBFIs
(primarily new, indigenous institutions) face serious financial difficulties.
The institutional restructuring component has been designed to help preserve
confidence in the banking sector as a whole and to assist in the development of
a stronger indigenous banking community.
2.          In the preparation of this component, Central Bank and IDA staff have
identified the institutions most in need of restructuring. Detailed financial
and management audits have been undertaken of ten such institutions, including
an assessment of the value of the portfolio, adequacy of provisions and capital,
identification of violations of the existing Banking Act and Central Bank
regulations, details of insider transactions, and evaluations of managerial
weaknesses. The Central Bank is now preparing a detailed action program for
restructuring these ten institutions, which is expected to claim nearly US$ 30
million of the US$ 40 million allocated to the component. In preparing this
program, the Government has as its central objectives (1        - maintenance of
stability in the financial system; (ii) minimizing the cost t . che economy; and
(iii) preserving the financial health of the Deposit Protection Fund.   In
addition, the Central Bank is committed to ensuring that directors, owners and
managers responsible for these troubled institutions are held accountable for
their actions and are not allowed to benefit from the restructuring program.
3.          The  component  will  finance  the  restructuring  of  financial
institutions through measures such as, the injection of new loan andlor equity
capit4-n to merged or restructured institutions, and reimbursement of protected
depositors in the case of closures. The Deposit Protection Fund would be the
implementing agency for these restructurings, with technical assistance funded
under the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit. The procedure for making
claims from this component is as follows. The Central Bank and IDA would first
agree on an action program for institutions to be restructured. This action
program would include (i) a restatement of the balance sheet to reflect the true
value of the portfolio; (ii) a cost-benefit analysis of various options open
for restructuring the institution, including financial projections for at least
five years, demonstrating the viability of the proposed restructuring plan; (iii)
an assessment of the managerial and staffing requirements of the restructured
institution; and (iv) a detailed implementation plan for the restructuring. The
financial projections would also include a financing plan, including funds
required from the Deposit Protection Fund, conversion of Government and
parastatal deposits into equity or other instruments, funds from private
shareholders, etc., and spelling out the terms and conditions under which those
funds would be extended to the restructured institution. As noted shove, the
Central Bank has already made important progress in preparing a program for ten
such institutions. The Central Bank also intends to establish a special task
force for pursuing delinquent borrowers of these institutions and would remit
any collections to the Deposit Protection Fund.



Annex 9
- 61 -                             page 2 of 2
4.          Once an action program is agreed, the Central Bank would authorize
the Deposit Protection Fund to begin its implementation. The Central Bank would
submit withdrawal applications to IDA for disbursement from the restructuring
component once it has demonstrated that the Deposit Protection Fund had refunded
protected depositors, injected new capital, etc., in line with the agreed
program. Foreign currency resources would be made available to the Government,
which would then place in a Special Account the K Sh equivalent for use by the
Deposit Protection Fund. Disbursement, audit and procurement procedures would
otherwise be identical to those under the policy reform component, as spelled
out in Part V of the President's Report.



