Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11422
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2049-KE)
NOVEMBER 24, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Kenyan Shilling (KSh)
Calendar 1989      Calendar 1990       Calendar 1991
US$1.00               20.57               22.91               27.51
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC         Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
CBF          College of Banking and Finance
CBK          Central Bank of Kenya
CMDA         Capital Markets Development Authority
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DFI          Development Finance Institution
DPF          Deposit Protection Fund
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSTAC        Financial Sector Technical Assistance Credit
GOK          Government of Kenya
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ISAC         Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
KIE          Kenya Industrial Estates
NBFI         Non-Bank Financial Institution
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SPPF         Special Project Preparation Facility
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wablngon. D.C 20433
U-S.A.
o0m of Dircor.Genurl
Oplmhon E'aintadn
November 24, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Kenya -
Fmancial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2049-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project Completion Report on
Kenya - Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2049-KE)' prepared by the Eastem Africa
Department of the Africa Regional Office.
he Fmancial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) paraDleled an IMF Standby program and
folowed adjustment operations in the agriculture and industry sectors. The PCR concludes that,
with the support of the FSAC, the Government made progress in shifting from direct to indirect
monetary policy instruments and making the interest rate structure more 'market determined."
However, the PCR questions whether the timing of the interest rate hberalization was
appropriate. It also notes major implementation shortcomings in bank supervision and
restructuring. Many of the reforms proved not to be politically feasible. Overal, the project is
rated as unsatisfactory.
The PCR discusses in some detail the strengths and weaknesses of the FSAC.
However, it does not provide adequate coverage on such basic issues as whether the operation
was appropriately designed, sequenced and timed. The Government did not comment on the
PCR.
As all adjustment operations, the FSAC is subject to OED audit. An audit mission has
recently returned from Kenya and the audit report is expected to be completed before the end
of FY93.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL SECrOR ADJUSSIMET CREAIT
(Credit 2049 - KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................... i
EVALUATION SULMUARY ................... iii
PART I: Credit Review from the Banks Perspective
1. Project Identity.                                                                         1
2. Background .1.
Country Background  ...........           ...............................    1
Sector Background .............           ...............................    2
3.     Reform Objectives and Credit Description ..............................    4
Reform Objectives   .............          ...............................   4
Credit Description   .............         ...............................   4
4.     Credit Design and Organization  .....................................    4
5.     Credit Implementation  .............           ...............................    5
Management of Monetary Policy  .................................    5
Interest Rate Policy  .......... ...................................    5
Prudential Regulation And Supervision                    .5
Restructuring of Insolvent Fmancial Institutions.                                6
Capital Markets Development.                                                     7
6. Borrower Performance.                                                                     7
General.                                                                         7
Procurement and Disbursement.                                                    8
7. Bank Performance.                                                                         8
8. Achievements Under The FSAC.                                                              8
Prudential Supervision.                                                          8
Bank Restructuring.                                                              9
9.     Lessons Learned .      ..................................................   9
PART Ik Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective  ......................   11
PART IIE Statistical Information
Table 1: Project Timetable ...........          ..............................   12
Table 2: Credit Disbursements ......................................   13
Table 3: Mission Schedule and Staffing ................................   14
Table 4: Use of Bank Resources .....................................   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KYA
FINANCIAL SECrOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KE)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
for Kenya. The Credit (SDR 92.9 million) was approved by the Board on June 27, 1989 and became
effective July 31, 1989. Funds available under the credit were augmented by IDA reflows, in 1989
and 1990 respectively, of SDR 35.3 million and SDR 48.2 million, raising the total IDA financing to
SDR 176.4 million. Both tranches of the quick-disbursing component and the institutional
restructuring component were fully disbursed. Belgium, Sweden, Germany, Japan and OECF also
supported the program with US$77.5 million equivalent in cofinancing.
2.        The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Eastern
Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office (Parts I and III). On May 3, 1992 the Bank sent
the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II by June 1, 1992, but no reply was
received.
3.        The preparation of this PCR report is based on the President's Report, Supervision
Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank documents.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) was designed as an integral part of the
Bank's broader strategy to assist with the implementation of Kenya's stabilization and structural
adjustment policies. The country began implementing its second major stabilization and adjustment
program in late 1986 to correct renewed macroeconomic imbalances and deterioration in economic
performance resulting primarily from the loss of fiscal and monetary discipline and adverse external
developments. This program was supported by the IMF through its stand-by arrangement, structural
adjustment facility (SAF) and enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF), and by IDA with a
series of sector adjustment credits in agriculture, industry and finance.
Sector Background, Issues and Performance
2.    In the mid 1980s, Kenya had one of the most developed and diverse financial systems in Sub-
Saharan Africa. The banking and non-banking system included the Central Bank (CBK), 24 commer-
cial banks, 54 non-bank financial institutions, 207 hire purchase and mortgage companies and over
1000 savings and credit cooperatives. In addition, there were 6 development banks, a post office
savings bank, and a National Social Security Fund. The government securities market was relatively
inactive and the small Nairobi Stock Exchange had 57 companies quoted at the exchange. M2 as a
percentage of GDP was around 29 percent, about the same level as other medium growth developing
countries. Sound macroeconomic management until the end of 1970s, coupled with overall political
and economic stability and a reasonably strong private sector orientation, have helped to stimulate
the growth of the sector. In addition, during 1970-83 the Government liberally issued new bank and
NBFI licenses in an effort to increase local Kenyan participation in the financial system. The NBFIs
were not subject to statutory reserves, and were allowed to lend at higher interest rates than the
commercial banks. As a result, the NBFI assets tripled during 1980-85. The regulatory differences
between the NBFIs and the commercial banks became a major constraint on the efficiency and the
depth of the financial system. At the same time, the rapid proliferation of institutions quickly out-
stripped the ability of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) to supervise their activities effectively.
Many of these financial institutions lacked sufficient capital and professionally qualified staff to
operate efficiently. As a result, by the mid-1980s as many as 28 NBFIs institutions were experiencing
serious financial difficulties. Several bank failures took place in 1985/86. On the monetary policy, the
major weakness was the inflexibility of monetary policy instruments available to the CBKI The main
instrument of monetary control was the use of credit ceilings on commercial bank lending to the
private sector. The weak and selective enforcement of the credit ceilings by the CBK and lack of
compliance by the commercial banks restricted the Government's ability to use monetary policy as
an effective tool to control inflationary pressures.



- iv -
Credit Obje : and Rationale
3.     The policy and institutional reforms supported by the FSAC aimed at restoring monetary
control through the use of indirect monetary instruments and improving the efficiency and the
market-orientation of the financial system. On the institutional front the program aimed at strength-
ening the regulatory and supervisory framework for development of the financial system, and
restructuring weak and insolvent financial institutions. By promoting stability in the financial system
and increasing the mobilization of resources through market-based mechanisms, the program provided
support to reforms already underway in agriculture, industry and service sectors. Key government
actions implemented prior to and during credit execution included the following: (a) maintaining real
positive interest rates for savings and lending, eventually allowing interest rates to be market deter-
mined; (b) implementing reserve money programming and the use of indirect policy instruments for
monetary control; (c) modernizing and strengthening the legislative framework for financial sector
operations; (d) improving the prudential supervision of financial institutions; and, (e) enhancing
incentives and investor protection to stimulate the development of capital markets.
Credit Description
4.     The credit had two major components: (i) a quick-disbursing component for balance of
payments support, linked to the conditionality specified in the Development Credit Agreement (SDR
61.9 million); and (ii) a quick-disbursing institutional restructuring component, with counterpart funds
made available to the Deposit Protection Fund (DPF) through a special account to support the
restructuring of weak financial institutions (SDR 31 million). These counterpart funds would be used
to reimburse the DPF for payments to protected depositors, and equity and/or loan contnbutions to
restructured institutions, in line with action programs for each institution agreed with IDA. Funds
available under the credit (SDR 92.9 million) were augmented by IDA refkows of SDR 35.3 million
in 1989, SDR 4&2 million in 1990, raising the total financing to SDR 176.4 million. Belgium, Sweden,
Germany, Japan and OECF supported the program with US$77.5 million equivalent in cofinancing.
A technical assistance credit (FSTAC) of SDR 3.9 million was also approved in September 1989 to
strengthen the CBK's capacity and support the reform process as a whole.
Credit Implementation and Achievements
5.     During the reform period, with continued assistance from the GOK and the IMF, the CBK
was able to successfully shift from direct to indirect monetary policy instruments. To achieve this
transition, the CBK took steps to improve data availability and set up the institutional framework
required to use reserve money management and open market operations to conduct monetary policy.
Under the FSAC, notable progress was also achieved in making the interest rate structure more
market determined. Interest rate liberalization, which advanced considerably in 1990 with the removal
of the requirement that the ceiling on lending rates be inclusive of fees and charges, reached its final
stage in June 1991 with the complete removal of controls on the interest rates of deposit-taking
institutions.
6.     The major implementation shortcomings were in bank supervision and bank restruturing and
these areas continue to suffer from several deficiencieL When the FSAC was initiated in early 1988,
the Bank Supervision Department of the CBK was practically inactive as a supervisory body. Under
the FSAC, the Government took steps to strengthen both the legal and technical capacity of CBK
to carry out its regulatory and supervisory functions. The Banldng Act was revised in 1989 which



- v -
enhanced the CBK's role in several areas including the inspection of institutions, the establishment
of reporting, audit and loan-loss provisioning requirements, the stipulation of capital adequacy
requirements and exposure limits, and the assessment of penalties against non-compliant institu-
tionsThe Act also subjected the Building Societies to more stringent licensing and operating
regulations, similar to those for NBFIs, and reduced further the regulatory differences between NBFIs
and commercial banks. To improve the effectiveness and coverage of CBK's supervision of financial
institutions, actions were taken to improve procedures and staffing. New reporting formats and
revised examination procedures were developed, a computerized off-site surveillance data system was
installed, and the frequency of inspections increased. To cope with these increased supervision
responsibilities, the staffing of the Supervision Department was increased, and a training program for
its staff was launched. However, the improvements in the technical capacity of the Supervision
Department were not complemented by an effective enforcement of supervision action. The project
team to strengthen the on-site examination process spent a year in the Bank Supervision Department,
resulting in substantial development and documentation of the examination process. Initial examina-
tions were managed by the team members, but these took a back seat on subsequent examinations,
with management control reverting to local managers.
7. The Bank Restructuring component was implemented in two phases. In the first phase,
restructuring was achieved by merging 3, and eventually 9 insolvent institutions into a new bank,
injecting fresh capital into this bank, and converting all deposits of parastatal enterprises into equity
in the new bank. The first phase of restructuring was carried out on schedule. In the second phase,
as a condition for the release of the second tranche, the Central Bank submitted to IDA an action
plan for the restructuring of 10 additional financial institutions. This action plan, which was accepted
by IDA, was designed to rely more on independent efforts by the shareholders of these institutions
to inject capital and improve operational efficiency without upsetting the interests of depositors. This
strategy proved less successful because of the inability or unwillingness of the existing owners to take
appropriate action, and the inability or unwillingness of CBK to enforce its supervisory powers or
come up with alternative solutions. As a result, the Phase II of the restructuring program was not
implemented.
Fmdings and Lesons Learned
8.    Kenya FSAC demonstrated that reform is not only a technical, but also a political process.
The Bank appraised the technical soundness of the reforms program, and the commitment of the
CBK to the reform objectives. However, the Bank did not appraise the political feasibility of the
reforms, which was not its mandate, nor whether Government had established processes to deal with
the negative impact of the reform measures or vested interests and hence their political consequenc-
es. Ultimately CBK found that it did not have the political weight necessary for the job and some of
the key institutional reforms including effective bank supervision were not fully enforced.
9.      Up-front actions required from the Government before the release of the first tranche were
few. This prevented IDA from gauging the political feasibility of some of the components of the
reform program such as the bank restructuring.
10.     Interest rate liberalization was implemented with success. However, whether its timing was
appropriate is questionable. It is possible to argue that in a vastly under-regulated and under-
supervised financial system, interest rate liberalization came too early and created over-competition
in the financial system, and encouraged many weak financial institutions to invest in riskier assets,



- vi -
thereby adding to their already severe fina"cial difficulties When prudential regulations are either
inadequate or ineffective and fiscal discipline is poor, it might be better to focus on reforms on these
before turning to full interest rate hlberalization.



PROlECr (:OMMLEMNOIR 
KE¢JYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTIMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KE)
PART k PROJECr REVIEzW FROM THE BNSPE PCIV
ftrject Identiq
Project Name:      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
Loan No.:          2049 KE
RVP Unit:          Africa Region
Country            Kenya
Sector:            Financial
2.
2.01.    Country Background Kenya was one of the success stories in Sub-Saharan Africa during
the first decade following independence in 1963. In the agricultural sector, large farms established
in the pre-independence period laid the foundation for the rapid development of Kenyan commercial
farming by successfully pioneering cash crops, establishing the country in world markets and meeting
their infrastructure services in high potential farm areas. The expansion of agriculture was also
stimulated by redistribution of some large estates to smal holder farmers through active government
leadership. Rising agricultural incomes and the consequent expansion in domestic demand, induced
rapid growth in manufacturing. Industrial growth also benefitted from an import substitution strategy,
based on tariff and non-tariff protection, a liberal foreign investment policy, active government
participation in manufacturing ventures, and continued access to East African Community markets.
During this period, the GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6 percent and per capita real
income increased rapidly.
Z02.     The first oil crisis in 1973 and other external factors in the 1970s substantialy changed this
situation. In 1973 Kenya's current account deficit more than doubled and the overall balance moved
from a surplus in the previous year to a sizeable deficit Following the first oil crisis, the growth of
the GDP decelerated, averaging 4.5 percent per year in real terms between 1974 and 1981. The terms
of trade continued to deteriorate over the period, except for the coffee-boom years of 1976 and 1977.
The sharp deterioration of the country's terms of trade in 1973 and 1974 required the Government
to folow restrictive economic policies. The coffee-boom period (1976-77), in contrast, substantially
increased the country's resource availabilities. In 1976 and 1977 public expenditures and imports were
allowed to increase dramatically. This resulted in a rapid drawdown of foreign exchange reserves and
greatly increased recourse to extemal borrowing, much of it on non-concessional terms. In 1981, the
budget deficit was 9.5 percent of GDP, the current account deficit was 12.5 percent of GDP and
inflation was at a peak 20 percent Severe intemal and extemal imbalances were exacerbated with
Government's inability to respond effectively to structural problems in the key sectom In agriculture,
inappropriate pricing policies and inefficient marketing arrangements began to take their toi and



-2-
yields stagnated. In industry, incentives favored the domestic market as against production for
exports, resulting in an increasingly inward-looking industrial sector with declining opportunities for
efficient import substitution. The collapse of the East African Community in 1977 added to the
country's balance of payments difficulties.
2.03.    In the early 1980s, the Government embarked on a major stabilization and adjustment
program to redress fiscal and financial imbalances and restore the economy into a sustainable growth
path. The program, supported by a stand-by arrangement and two SALs from IDA, included a
devaluation, reductions in the budget deficit, adjustments of nominal interest rates and limits on credit
expansion. Despite a world-wide recession and an attempted coup in 1982, and a major drought in
1984, considerable progress was made in reducing the financial imbalances. With the subsequent fall
in inflation, interest rates turned positive in real terms for the first time in nearly a decade. While the
stabilization program was successful in reducing the budget and the balance of payments deficits, and
in moderating inflation, little progress was made in structural adjustment. Trade liberalization
measures introduced under the SALs were eventually reversed, and protection through non-tariff
barriers were intensified after 1983. The country was forced to implement another major stabilization
and adjustment program in late 1986 to correct renewed macroeconomic imbalances and deterioration
in economic performance resulting primarily from the loss of fiscal discipline and adverse external
developments. This program was supported by the IMF through its stand-by arrangement, structural
adjustment facility (SA) and enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF), and by IDA with sector
adjustment credits in agriculture, industry and finance.
2.04.    Sector Background: In the mid-1980s Kenya had a fairly well developed financial system
for a country of its income leveL The financial system comprised of 24 banks, 54 non-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs), 207 hire purchase companies, 26 building societies,39 locally incorporated
insurance companies and over 1000 savings and credit cooperative societies. In addition, there were
6 development banks, a post office savings bank, and a National Social Security Fund. The
government securities market was relatively inactive and the small Nairobi Stock Exchange had 57
companies quoted at the exchange. This formal financial system was effective in mobilizing domestic
financial resources. Money supply (M2) as a percentage of GDP was around 29 percent, about the
same level as other medium growth developing countries. Gross national savings was also median for
the same group of developing countries, amounting to about 18.5 percent of GDP in 1988.
2.05.    The system initially had a large foreign presence as a result of the country's historical ties
with the UK. In the early 1980s, foreign banks had 12 banking licenses out of 15 commercial banks
operating in the country at that time and accounted for about 65 percent of total deposits in the
banking system. The foreign NBFIs, including 6 joint ventures, accounted for 10 out of 23 NBFI
licenses and held more than one-third of total NBFI deposits. In the early 1980s, in an effort to
increase Kenyan participation in the financial system, licensing requirements were relaxed which
resulted in a proliferation of small locally owned banks and NBFIs. Many of these new institutions
were formed with the active involvement of the political and administrative elite, including particularly
those responsible for state owned enterprises with funds available for deposit in the new institutions.
The deposit-taking NBFIs could not engage in foreign exchange transactions, and were mainly
involved in consumer finance, residential mortgages and business term loans. However, they were
not subject to statutory reserve requirements, and were allowed to lend at a higher rate, and
consequently offer higher deposit rates. As a result, between 1980-85, NBFI assets tripled from KSh
6.5 billion to Ksh 19 billion, facilitated by the less stringent controls governing these institutions. In
contrast, commercial bank assets only doubled over the same period.



2.06.    These regulatory differences between the NBFIs and the commercial banks were a major
constraint on the efficiency and the depth of Kenya's financial system. They led to excessive growth
in the number of NBFIs and building societies during the 1980s, and due to low entry barriers and
inadequate supervision, most were under-capitalized and poorly managed. As competition between
these institutions and commercial banks intensified, many of them invested in riskier assets and
squeezed their margins by offering higher rates than commercial banks. The rapid expansion of the
NBFIs stopped in 1986, when the Kenyan banking system faced its first major crisis, with the failure
of the Continental Bank and its subsidiary Continental Finance, together with the Rural and Urban
Credit Finance Corporation, all of which were owned by NBFIs and/or building societies. This failure
was attributable mainly to gross mismanagement of funds. The effect of the collapse was a flight to
quality by the customers. Most depositors shifted their funds out of the smaller NBFIs to the larger
banks, and in particular to the foreign banks. This exposed the NBFIs to severe liquidity shortages,
and forced many to resort to the parastatals for their deposit base which in turn gave the managers
of parastatals (mostly individuals with political influence), considerable power over the fate of
financial institutions.
2.07.    Inadequate prudential regulation and supervision of the financial system was a second
important negative factor. Prior to the expansion of the banking system, bank supervision was not
an active function of the CBK since most of the banks were branch offices of major foreign banks
that were under the internal supervision of the parent bank and the external supervision of home
countries' regulatory authorities. While a basic banking regulatory infrastructure was in place, it was
based on a system that relied heavily on cooperation between the banks and bank regulators, with
no real enforcement authority vested in the Central Bank. The regulatory powers of the Central
Bank (CBK) under the Banking Act were limited, and its enforcement capacity was hindered by lack
of qualified staff and inadequate information. Ih addition, building societies were not placed under
the CBK's supervisory control until 1987. As these institutions expanded, many were under-
capitalized, lacked adequately trained staff, and were subject to little supervision by CBK whose
supervisory capabilities were already overstretched. Poor financial practices and mismanagement led
to increasing liquidity and solvency problems for many of these new institutions.
2.08.    A third notable weakness of the financial system was the inflexibility of monetary policy
instruments available to the CBK. The main instrument of monetary control was the use of credit
ceilings on commercial bank lending to the private sector. The weak and selective enforcement of
the ceilings by the CBK and lack of compliance by the commercial banks restricted the Government's
ability to use monetary policy as an effective vehicle to control inflationary pressures stemming from
expansionary fiscal policy. Moreover, selective application and enforcement of credit ceilings also
contributed to the segmentation of financial markets. The ceilings did not apply to NBFIs, and even
among commercial banks their enforcement varied by institution. Furthermore, during the coffee-
booms of 1970s and 1980s,the Government allowed both foreign exchange reserves and public
expenditures to rise simultaneously, which fed quickly into growth in money supply. When foreign
exchange reserves subsequently fell, the money supply continued to grow in line with widening fiscal
deficits. Experience during the coffee-boom periods suggested that an increasingly market-driven
interest rate structure and a more flexible monetary policy instruments were necessary to manage
aggregate demand, stabilize the impact of external shocks and counteract the fiscal policy.
2.09.    Finally, the financial system had a sizeable number of DFIs that directed credit to specific
sectors. The DFIs were established by the Government in the 1960s and 1970s to alleviate perceived
market failures in the provision of long-term capital for investment. The largest DFIs, mostly owned



-4-
by the Government, provided equity and term loans to industrial enterprises,both public and private,
and loans for long-term agricultural investments. The operations of the DFIs had two negative
effects. First, they worsened the segmentation of the financial markets. Their activities, characterized
by low funding costs, large spreads, and high arrears, made the commercial banks even more reluctant
to provide term lending. Second, the DFI sector constituted a significant drain on budgetary
resources due to their poor financial performance. Most were unprofitable, financially unsustainable,
and suffered from serious portfolio problems. These DFIs were subsidized heavily from the central
government budget.
3.       Reform Objectives And Credit Description
3.01.    Reform Objectives: The bank failures of 1986 together with renewed macroeconomic
imbalances resulting primarily from the loss of fiscal and financial discipline prompted the
Government to introduce some policy reforms in the financial system. However, the first
comprehensive financial sector adjustment program, supported by the FSAC, was launched in early
1989. The program included policy and institutional reforms aimed to restore monetary control and
improve the efficiency and the market-orientation of the financial system. Specifically, on the policy
front the program included measures to reduce the budget deficit and the Government's excessive
reliance on domestic bank borrowing; develop more flexible monetary policy instruments; liberalize
interest rates; and improve the efficiency of financial intermediation by removing distortions in
financial resource mobilization and allocation. On the institutional front, reforms were designed to
strengthen prudential regulation and supervision of the financial system; develop and implement
specific restructuring programs for weak and insolvent financial institutions; and, support the
development of a strong cadre of Central Bank and other banking professionals in Kenya, by
provision of technical assistance to the College of Banking and Finance and to the CBK.
3.02.    Credit Description. The credit had two major components: (i) a quick-disbursing
component for balance of payments support, linked to the conditionality specified in the
Development Credit Agreement (SDR 61.9 million); and (ii) a quick-disbursing institutional
restructuring component, with counterpart funds made available to the Deposit Protection Fund
(DPF) through a special account to support the restructuring of weak financial institutions (SDR 31
million). These counterpart funds would be used to reimburse the DPF for payments to protected
depositors, and equity and/or loan contributions to restructured institutions, in line with action
programs for each institution agreed with IDA. Funds available under the credit (SDR 92.9 million)
were augmented by IDA reflows of SDR 35.3 million in 1989, SDR 48.2 million in 1990, raising the
total financing to SDR 176.4 million. Belgium, Sweden, germany, Japan and OECF supported the
program with US$77.5 million equivalent in cofinancing. A technical assistance credit (FSTAC) of
SDR 3.9 million was also approved in September 1989 to strengthen the CBK's capacity and support
the reform process as a whole.
4.       Credit Design And Organization
4.01.    The credit was designed as a policy-based sector adjustment operation, with the Central
Bank of Kenya (CBK) having the primary responsibility for its implementation and administration.
The size of the credit was determined by taking into account Kenya's balance of payments prospects
and its financing requirements during the prevailing PFP period of 1989-91. The balance of payments
component was scheduled to be released in two equal tranches, the first becoming available upon
effectiveness and the second upon fulfillment of specific conditions for tranche release. Release of



funds for the institutional restructuring component was contingent upon presentation of satisfactory
action programs to IDA by the CBK, for each institution covered under the reform program. The
CBK was also expected to present satisfactory documentation indicating the transactions of the
Deposit Protection Fund, either to protect depositors or inject new loans or capital to the institutions
being restructured. It was expected that the restructuring of the first ten institutions would use about
SDR 23 million of this component.
4.02.    The quick-disbursing components would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of general imports not contained in a negative list. The counterpart funds of the institutional
restructuring component would be used for financial institution restructuring. These funds would not
be used to compensate shareholders or directors of restructured institutions. Monitoring of the credit
would cover both the progress made in implementing the specific reforms under the FSAC as well
as regular assessments of the adequacy of the macroeconomic framework. The CBK was given the
responsibility of providing quarterly reports to IDA to facilitate the work of regular supervision
missions and enable continuous monitoring of the program's progress.
5.       Credit ImlDementation
5.01.    The credit was approved by the Board on June 27, 1989, and became effective in July 31,
1989. Consistent with the reform objectives, measures were introduced to initiate and develop the
use of indirect monetary policy instruments, relax controls on interest rates, strengthen the framework
for the regulation and prudential supervision of financial institutions, restructure problem banks and
NBFIs, and develop money and capital markets. Restructuring of troubled DFIs was handled through
a separate TA project.
5.02.    Management of Monetary Polica. During the reform period, with continued assistance
from the GOK and the IMF, the CBK was able to successfully shift from direct to indirect monetary
policy instruments. To achieve this transition, the CBK took steps to improve data availability and
set up the institutional framework required to use reserve money management and open market
operations to conduct monetary policy. The Monetary Policy Committee, established in 1988, assisted
in the improvement of database and in the use of monetary programs.. The Treasury, in collaboration
with the CBK, also took measures to remove policy and institutional constraints on the operation of
T-bill and T-bond markets including the activation of auctions; reforms in the tendering mechanisms
of government securities, and the issue of broader range of T-bills.
5.03.    Interest Rate Policy. Under the FSAC, notable progress was also achieved in making the
interest rate structure more market determined. Interest rate liberalization, which advanced
considerably in 1990 with the removal of the requirement that the ceiling on lending rates be inclusive
of fees and charges, reached its final stage in June 1991 with the complete removal of controls on
the interest rates of deposit-taking institutions. Treasury bill rates are currently market determined.
5.04.    Prudential Regulation And Supervision. When the FSAC was initiated in early 1988, the
Bank Supervision Department of the CBK was practically inactive as a supervisory body. Under the
FSAC, the Government took steps to strengthen both the legal and technical capacity of CBK to
carry out its regulatory and supervisory functions. The Banking Act was revised in 1989 which
enhanced the CBK's role in several areas including the inspection of institutions, the establishment
of reporting, audit and loan-loss provisioning requirements, the stipulation of capital adequacy
requirements and exposure limits, and the assessment of penalties against non-compliant



-6-
institutions.The Act also subjected the Building Societies to more stringent licensing and operating
regulations, similar to those for NBFIs, and reduced further the regulatory differences between NBFIs
and commercial banks. To improve the effectiveness and coverage of CBK's supervision of financial
institutions, actions were taken to improve procedures and staffing. New reporting formats and
revised examination procedures were developed, a computerized off-site surveillance data system was
installed, and the frequency of inspections increased. To cope with these increased supervision
responsibilities, the staffing of the Supervision Department was increased, and a training program for
its staff was launched.
5.05.    However, the improvements in the technical capacity of the Supervision Department were
not complemented by an effective enforcement of supervision action, initiated by the Senior
Management of CBK. The project team to strengthen the on-site examination process spent a year
in the Bank Supervision Department, resulting in substantial development and documentation of the
examination process. Initial examinations were managed by the team members, but these took a back
seat on subsequent examinations, with management control reverting to local managers under the
tutelage of team members. Compensation levels proved to be a major constraint. The bank
examiners were expected to deal on an equal basis with the top management of the banks, despite
vast differences in office facilities, salary and political power and thus social standing. For off-site
surveillance, monthly balance sheet reports were introduced. A corresponding database structure was
finalized and the data entry and reporting modules were built. The data that had been collected by
the statistics department was then loaded into the new system, providing a historical base, and data
entry in the new format. The system then produced detailed time series and peer group analyses.
These were used to assign a risk rating to each institution based on comparative liquidity, capital
adequacy, balance sheet composition and the direction of change in these ratios. The preliminary
analysis showed that the original CBK estimate that about 5 percent of the banking system was in
difficulty proved to be optimistic. The more accurate number was in the order of 35 percent. This
off-site surveillance system, however, needed to be complemented by on-site examinations and
effective enforcement of supervisory action. Aggressive action (and sometimes any action at all !)
against problem banks or NBFIs by the CBK was impeded by the political ramifications of such
actions.
5.06.    Restructuring of Insolvent Financial Institutions. Prior to the FSAC, the existing policies
in Kenya encouraged easy entry to the financial markets, as discussed above, but did not provide
appropriate exit mechanisms. As a result of easy entry, lax regulations, and inadequate supervision
by the CBK, by 1986 it was estimated that 4 banks and 24 NBFIs faced severe liquidity and insolvency
problems on account of large non-performing loans and inadequate security. Since these institutions
accounted for about 15 percent of the total liabilities of all banks and NBFIs, to preserve public
confidence in the banking system, it was necessary to implement an orderly restructuring program.
Under the FSAC, it was agreed that the CBK would start the restructuring exercise only on three
small institutions. The restructuring program then would be enlarged as experience in bank
restructuring was gained. However, the CBK decided to act on 9 weak financial institutions rather
than 3, and identified another 10 to be restructured in Phase II of the restructuring program. In
implementation, the restructuring exercise turned out to be more complicated than was originally
envisioned. Of the 9 institutions for which restructuring plans were drawn up, the weakest three were
merged in December 1989, to form a new bank, the Consolidated Bank of Kenya. The remaining six
banks were also merged subsequently. The establishment of the Consolidated Bank of Kenya was
assisted with payouts from the Depositor Protection Fund (DPF), which was also strengthened and
recapitalized as part of the reform package, and by the conversion of parastatal deposits into equity.



However, both the preparation of the restructuring plans as well as their implementation were
delayed significantly. The Government's insistence on presenting the restructuring exercise as a
merger rather than take over by the new bank, the information leaks that occurred during the
preparation and the delayed-implementation of the restructuring plans, led to asset stripping.
Therefore, the financial position of the Consolidated Bank of Kenya was not as strong as was
foreseen originally. There were also questions about the implications of the asset stripping on the
financial situation of the Depositor Protection Fund. IDA was not committed financially to support
the second phase of the restructuring exercise, which remained largely unimplemented.
5.07.    Capital Markets Development. To stimulate the development of capital markets, several
policy and institutional measures were implemented. On the policy front, the reforms focussed mainly
on enhancing the returns from equity investments, thereby reducing the bias favoring debt
instruments. These measures included: elimination of the double taxation of dividends by conversion
of the withholding tax into a final tax; exemption of the withholding tax on the dividend income of
corporate tax-exempt bodies such as pension funds; elimination of the corporate tax on the dividend
income of unit trusts; removal of Capital Issues Committee's role in regulating share issues; abolition
of stamp duties on retail share transactions; and tax deductibility of all costs incurred in the issue of
shares, debentures and bonds. The Government also adopted a revised Unit Trusts Act to liberalize
regulations for establishing and operating investment trusts. On the institutional front, to strengthen
the institutional and regulatory framework for the securities market, the Capital Markets Authority
Act was enacted in 1989. The Act defined the roles and responsibilities of various participants, and
provided for the implementation of investor protection measures by the Capital Market Authority
(CNA), whose mandate also included the development of the securities industry.
6.       Borrower Performance
6.01.    General: The CBK's performance in managing the implementation of policy reforms was
good, although there were some foreseen difficulties pertaining to CBK's short-and medium-term
strategy with respect to the use of indirect monetary policy instruments. The first impediment was
continuing weaknesses in the information base for decisions for the setting up of monetary targets
and for money market operations. The development of a simple, but practical monetary program
took longer time than initially predicted. Second, efforts to develop the money market were impeded
by the inability of CBK to convert Government overdrafts into a trading portfolio of T-bills for
market intervention and by the cap on T-bill rates. Finally, inflationary pressures created by large
fiscal deficits continued to prevail which undermined the CBK's ability to effectively restore monetary
control.
6.02.    The CBK was notably less successful in managing the institutional reforms, in particular
the restructuring of insolvent financial institutions and improving prudential supervision, as detailed
above. In implementing the first phase of institutional restructuring, the Supervision Department of
CBK received a high level of support in training, staffing, computerized activities and completion of
the first stage of work on prudential guidelines and institutional restructuring, etc. The effect of
increased support was most visible in the performance of the Inspection Division, which inspected
36 financial institutions in FY89-90. The CBK's off-site surveillance capacity was also considerably
strengthened. Most critically however the supervision activities slackened considerably, towards the
end of the reform period.



-8 -
6.03.    Procurement And Disbursement. During the implementation of FSAC, several
procurement and disbursement problems were encountered. Some applications for reimbursement
of petroleum payments had to be returned because they were not consistent with the Credit
Agreement on two counts -- the amounts exceeded both the global ceiling for petroleum imports and
the threshold for use of ICB procedures. There were also some problems with the withdrawal
applications by Government to claim reimbursements from IDA reflows tied to FSAC. The
Disbursement Unit notified the Govemment and recommended that the statement of expenditures
privilege be withdrawn until corrective procedures were followed.
6.04.    Reporting The CBK did not comply with the requirement of providing quarterly progress
reports to IDA in order to facilitate the work of regular supervision missions and enable continuous
monitoring of the program's progress. Instead, raw data were provided to IDA, which involved
considerable processing by IDA staff.
7.       Bank Performance
7.01.    The Bank played an active role in monitoring and supervising the implementation of
FSAC. As a result, the performance of the Central Bank was good in the hberalization of interest
rates, training of the staff, and the implementation of the indirect monetary policy instruments. To
ensure the viability of the system, IDA also provided the Government with technical guidance on
accelerating the process to minimize eventual losses to the financial system, which involved
guidance/actions that would extend beyond the life of the Financial Sector Operation, e.g. tighter
bank guidelines and the formulation of appropriate macroeconomic framework for fiscal discipline
etc. Another important role played by the Bank was to encourage other donor assistance in the
program.
7.02.    The major implementation shortcomings were in bank supervision and bank restructuring.
MDA relied perhaps too heavily on the CBK's own initiative and capacity in the implementation of
prudential supervision and the restructuring of insolvent financial institutions. There were no clear
time-tables or performance-criteria attached to the implementation of these two important
components. Moreover, the supervision missions did not include Banking/Central Banking Specialists
to closely monitor progress in these critical areas.
8        Achievements Under The FSAC
8.01.    Substantial progress was achieved under the FSAC in moving toward a market-determined
interest rate structure. Government actions in this area were carefully coordinated with the annual
macroeconomic stabilization programs designed in the context of the PFP. Since full interest rate
liberalization was a key precondition for a shift to indirect instruments of monetary control the latter
was also successfully implemented. However, the implementation of the other two components of the
reform program fell short of expectations and these areas continue to suffer from several deficiencies.
8.02.    Prudential Supervision: With the enactment of the Banking Act, and the strengthening
of CBK's capacities to implement its provisions, the legal framework for the operation of financial
institutions and CBK's ability to monitor their functioning have been improved. Further, the new
regulations regarding capital adequacy requirements link the capital of all institutions to total assets.
CBK's on-site inspection and off-site surveillance capacity has also been improved, as were the skills
of its staff. These changes address several of the regulatory and supervisory problems that existed



-9 -
in the mid-1980s. Entry of new institutions into the financial market is now subject to greater
scrutiny than before.
&03.     Despite these improvements however, problems remain in two major areas. First, although
there is a more stringent regulatory framework in place, CBK still faces serious implementation con-
straints, partly due to continuing shortages of trained manpower, but also because of unwillingness
of CBK to use its powers under the FSAC-initiated Banking Act to strengthen the financial system
as a whole and help to improve financial practices and/or restructure weak banks and NBFIs. Second,
after improvement in information on financial institutions, it became apparent that the incidence of
illiquidity, insolvency and violations of banking regulations were more widespread than was believed
at the beginning of the reform program. More importantly, these incidences seem to have grown
over time implying lack of action on the part of CBK To deal with the systemic nature of these
problems, it will be necessary for the CBK to improve its implementation of prudential regulation and
supervision. CBK actions will need to include slricter enforcement of regulations including the
enforcement of loan classification and provisioning guidelines, use of penalties within the context of
the Banking Act to deter violations, improvements in the quality of CBK inspections and supervisions,
and time-bound restructuring programs to improve the financial performance of problem institutions.
&04.     Bank Restructuring. Bank restructuring was implemented in two phases. In the first
phase, restructuring was achieved by merging 3, and eventually 9 insolvent institutions into a new
bank, injecting fresh capital into this bank, and converting all deposits of parastatal enterprises into
equity in the new bank. The first phase of restructuring was carried out on schedule, although the
parastatal enterprises who held deposits in these banks were forced to share part of the high cost of
financial mismanagement in these banks.
&05.    In the second phase, as a condition for the release of the second tranche, the Central
Bank submitted to IDA an action plan for the restructuring of 10 additional financial institutions. This
action plan, which was accepted by IDA, was designed to rely more on independent efforts by the
shareholders of these institutions to inject capital and improve operational efficiency without
upsetting the interests of depositors. This strategy proved less successful because of the inability or
unwillingness of the existing owners to take appropriate action, and the inability or unwillingness of
CBK to enforce its supervisory powers or come up with alternative solutions. As a result, the Phase
II of the restructuring program was not implemented. Most of the institutions covered under this
group have more recently run into serious liquidity problems and required emergency measures by
CBK
9.       Lsons         d
9.01.    Kenya FSAC was among the first Financial Sector Adjustment Credits financed by IDA.
Experience with Kenya FSAC demonstrates the fragility of economic, financial and institutional
reform processes. While technically a sound case of how to go about successful reform, the project
implementation demonstrated that reform is not only a technical, but also a political process. The
Bank appraised the technical soundness of the reforms, and the commitment of the CBK to the
reform objectives. However, the Bank did not appraise the political feasibility of the reforms, which
was not its mandate, nor whether Government had established processes to deal with the negative
impact of the reform measures or vested interests and hence their political consequences. In
particular, whether it was able to generate countervailing support for the reform measures.



- 10-
Ultimately CBK found that it did not have the political weight necessary for the job and some of the
key institutional reforms including effective bank supervision were not fully enforced.
9.02.    Up-front actions required from the Govemment before the release of the first tranche
were few. This prevented IDA from gauging the political feasibility of some of the components of
the reform program such as the bank restructuring. Shortcomings in implementation of bank supervi-
sion and bank restructuring components could partly be remedied at the supervision stage, by more
stringent and closer monitoring of these components by professionals with banking skills.
9.03.    Interest rate liberalization was an undisputed success in implementation. However,
whether its sequencing was appropriate is questionable. It is possible to argue that in a vastly under-
regulated and under-supervised financial system with minimal banking-skills base, interest rate liberal-
ization came too early and created over-competition in the financial system, and encouraged many
weak financial institutions to invest in riskier assets, thereby adding to their already severe financial
difficulties. When prudential regulations are either inadequate or ineffective and fiscal discipline is
poor, it may be better to focus on reforms on these areas before turning to full interest rate
hlberalization.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTME3NT CRED1T
(Credit 2049-KE)
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIV
Parts I and III of the PCR were sent to the Borrower for comments on May 3, 1992,
but none were received.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2049-KE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                   Date Planned    Date Revised     Date Actual
Identification                01/14/88             -           01/16/88
Preparation (Project Brief)   09/11/88             -           09/11/88
Appraisal Mission             05/09/89             -           05/11/89
President's Report            05/22/89             -           05/22/89
Loan Negotiations             06/26/89             -           06/26/89
Board Approval                06/13/89            -            06J27/89
Loan Signature                07/12/89            -            07/12/89
Loan Effectiveness            07/31/89            -            07/31/89
Loan Closing                  09/30/91            -            09/30/91



- 13 -
Table 2: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(in SDR Millions)
Item          Appraisal    FY89       FY90       FY91       FY91       Actual
Estimates    Oct.       Nov.       Oct.       Nov.
Credit Amount        176.4
1st Tranche                      35.3
2nd Tranche                                  48.2                 8.0
Other                                                 84.9                   176.4
Percentages of
Appraisal Estimates              20%         27%      48%         5%         100%
Cofinancing by other donors in the amount of US$72.4 million has been disbursed, and an additional
US$5.1 million is also expected to be disbursed.
Below are the details regarding the other funds disbursed by IDA under the credit as of October 3,
1991:
Categr.              Name and Description                      Disbursed Amount
in SDR
Fund - A          Revolving Fund                                       312,379.88
Fund - B          Revolving Fund                                        98,846.98
Goods Import (Para.4, Sch.1, 100% F)              55,907,875.68
Transfer to 1-A                                           0.00
1-A               Goods Import(100% F)                              25,662,494.80
1-B               Transfer to 2-A                                           0.00
2-A               Refund to SPPF G044 KE                               238,249.43
2-B               Petroleum Products                                 2,679,113.74
3
4                                                                   84 898,960.51
Amount disbursed on November 5, 1991              8.000.000.00
92,898,960.51



- 14 -
Tabkc 3: MISSION SCHEDULE AND STAFI;NG
Month/Year    No. of    No. of      Day in      Date of     Specal n          Perforance       Type of
Weels    Penons    Field         Repors       Reented         Rating StatuaW    ProblemsW
Identification     01/88          3          7         105        01/1-S8          4,6             NA
Identification     OSR8           2          2         20         06/22/8          4,6             NA
Preprtion I        09R88           2         1          10        O9KI=8           4               NA
Preappraisal       09/88           3         6         90         09/28'8        3,4,6             NA
Appraisal          h11R8          NA         NA         NA        02V289           NA              NA               -
Appraisa           0519           3         2         30         06/0589          4                1
Total                                               255
Supervision I      119           2         2         20          12/14R9         4               1
Supevision I       02190           2         1          10        021Z3190         4               1
Supervsion III     02/90           4         2         52         03/12/90         4               1
Superviso IV       06/90           4         6         156        07/18/90       3,4               1                T
Supervision V      02/91           4         1         26         03/11/91         4               1                T
Supervision VI     06/91           1         1          5         07/09/91         4               1                T
Total                           17        10        269
^/ Specialization                / Status                        g/Problem
1 - Loan Officer              1 - Problem-free or Minor         Technical
2 - Country Officer           Problems
3 - Industrial Ecnomist
4 - Funancal Economist        2 - Moderte Problems
5 - Project Officer
6 - Genazl Consultant



- 15 -
Table 4: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Stage of Project Cycle       1988      1989    1990    1991       Total
Through Appraisal             28        6                          34
Appraisal Through Board
Approval
Board Approval Through                  6                           6
Effectiveness
Supervision                             4       34        5        43
PCR                                                       6         6
Total                 28        16       34      11        89



