Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
RePor No. 4936
PROJECT COUPLETION REPORT
ROMnUAA FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
(Loan 1169-RO)
February 13, 1984
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
document ha a restricted dlbut. mi may be used by ecipiets ady in de pefornue of
dh eofficld dutis. Is cotems my *m  odherse be isdosed withou Woid Bak aho&ulv.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Project Cost Breakdown
Annex 2  - Project Financing
Annex 3  - List of Procurement Contracts
Annex 4  - Scbedule of Disbursemiuts
Aonex 5  - Value of Production of Selected Agricultural Units Affected by the
Flood for tbe Period 1973-1977
Aonex 6  - Equipment Procured for the Flood Warning System
Annex 7  - List of Rebabilitation of Irrigation, Drainage, and Flood
Protection Works
Map 1    - IBRD No. 17249 PCR:  Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Works
Map 2    - IBRD No. 17250 PCR: Automatic System for Hydro-Meteorological Flood
Warning
ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI     - Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP      - Cooperative for Agricultural Production
DELIF    - Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
DGEIFCA  - Economic General Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction
IB       - Investment Bank
IBRD     - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
IDR      - Institute of Design and Researcb of the National Water Council
DMH      - Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology
MAFI     - Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
NWC      - National Water Council
SMA      - Station for Agricultural Macbinery
TCIF     - Construction Trust for Land Reclamation Woz-ks



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
(Loan 1169-RO)
COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................... .............)......              (
BASIC DAl& SHEET ...........;(i
HIGHILIGETS .................................... o...... ...........    MUi)
I.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ......................               I
A.  Introduction   .....              .....       ... ,      l
B.  Project Background and Formulation ............1
C.  Project Objectives and Descrip:ioo ........                        2
D.  Implementation Arrangements ....................                   3
II.  PROJECT IMPLENENIATION ....... ......... . ... .............            3
A.  Loan Negotiation and Effectiveness ....... o         .......       3
B.  Project Implementation .................... . .. ..**.             3
C.  Project Cost aud Financing           ........   ..........         5
D.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .....         ....................     7
E.  Procurement .........................................              7
F.  Disbursements ... *  .............      ....   .......... * **     8
G.  Compliance witb Loan Covenants ......................              9
III.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE .  ......................                        9
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ...............................               9
A. Tbe Borrower.                                                       9
B.  The Beneficiaries .................. *.. ...... ......            10
V.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND EVALUATION ........................              11
-            VI.  BANK'S ROLE AND PERFORMANCE ...          .......       ........        12
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED  .......................               13
Attachment I - Borrower's comments 1....................              15
Annexes
Maps
I Ibs document has a restrcd distnbution sad may be used by recpients only in the performance of |
their official duties Its contents may not otberwise be dicosed without World Bank authonizatio



(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 1169-RO)
PREF4CE
This is a Completion Report of the Flood Recovery Project in Romania,
for which Ioan 1169-RO, in the amount of US$40.0 million was approved on
November 4, 1975. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1981, after a delay of
36 months. The final disbursement was made on January 26, 1981, and the full
loan amount was disbursed. This is one of two complementary loans made of an
emergency nature as the result of floods in Romania during July 1975. The
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3229) for the industrial and
transportation components (Loan 1170-RO for US$2O million to the Investment
Bank) was issued on December 29, 1980.
This Project Completion Report was prepared by the Europe, Middle East
and North Africa Region following a mission to Romania in March 1983 and is
based in part on a draft completion report prepared by the Borrower (Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry) and a review of the Appraisal Report (No.
876a-RO), the President's Report (No. P-1699-RO), the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements dated November 12, 1975, together with a review of correspondence
with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained
in relevant Bank files, minutes of the Board's discussions, and interviews
with Bank staff who have been associated with the project.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on October 25, 1983, for
comments.  The comments received have been reproduced as Attachment I.
The project has not been subjected to an audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED).



(ii)
ROYIkIA EUAOD REDOVERY PRoJECr
LUAN 11b9-RI)
PROJECT CUWHLETION REPOkr
BASIC DATA SHEET
TME PROJECr DATA
Appra5saL              Actual or             Actual ms compared to
Item                                          Estimate           Estimated Actual            Appraisal Estiate
Total Project Costa (US$ mllion)                         121.7                   127.1                       104Z
Loan  Amount (USS million)                                 40.0                   40.0                    _ OO%
Date Board Approval                                   Nov. 4. 1975             Nov. 1975
Date Effectlveieses                                   Dec. 2. 1975             Dec. 1975
DLte Pbysical CoWponents Completed-Land Reclamation  Dec. 31. 1978            Dcc. 31. 1976           24 moa. anticipation
-Agricultural Cr.  Dec. 31. 1978           Dec. 31. 1976           24 wos. anticipation
-Flood Warning
System          Dec. 31, 1978           Dec. 31. 1981           36 mos. delay
Closing Date                                         June 30. 1979           Dee  31. 1980               18 mos. delay
Ecoanomic Rate of Return (C)                               NA                      NA
Financial Rate of Return (Z)                                NA                     NA
Institutional Performance                              adenuate
Agronomic Performance                                       NA                     NA
KMmber of Direct Beneficiaries                              NA                   1.370
CMDJLATIVE DISBURSEMEXTS
Dee 76   Dec 77   Dec 78   Dec 79   Dec 80   Dec 81
Appraisal estimate (3S$ mSllion)                              27.0     60.0        -        -        -         _
Actual, (us$ million)                                         36.4     36 .6     36.9     38.1      39.1     40.0
Actual as Z of estilate                                      135       92        92       95        98      100
Date of final disbursement                        Jan. 26. 1981
Principal repaid -o (mo./day/yr.) (US$ million)  08/31/83    4.6
YISSION DATA
Date        No. of      Nandays     Specializationa    Performance                Types of
:ission                (no.dyr.)     Persons    In Field      epresnnte4ta            j              L     Proble_Jd
Identification                none
Preparation                   none
Appraisal                     7/75            5           105
Subtotal                                                 105
Supervision 1                10/75            6           63         a.b.c.d               I           I            _
Supervision 2                 2/76            2            7           d.b                             I I
Supervision 3                 4176            2           26           d,e                                          -
Supervision 4                 5/76            1            3            a.e                            L I          _
Supervision 5                11/76            2            6            d.b                I           2
Supervision 6                 8177            4           2          b.d.a.e               1           2            -
Supervision 7                  _/78           2            4            b.c                1           2
Supervision 8                12/78            2            6            d.b                I           2            -
Supervisiong                 12/79           2            12           d.&                 1           2_______      T__
Subtotal                                                 155
Total                                                    260
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFT)
Executing 4ency  Bank for Agriculrure and Food Industrv. National Water Coun&ll  Tnnrirure of Meterology and Sydrology
Name of Currency (abbreviation)  Let  (Lei)
Cbrrency Exchange Rate:
Apprasall Year Average                                         8S$ 1.00  -  20 asi
Interveanig Years Average                                     8SS 1.00  - 20 Lei
Completion Year Average                                        U5 1.00  - 18 Lei
Jollow-oa Project:
unm              o
loan/Credit Number
Loan/Credit Amount (USS million)
Date Board Approval
a 4 - agriculturist; b - agricultural economist; c - finnsucil ea*lyst; d - technical specialist; e - gencral
l - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems.
I - Improving; 2 - stationary; and 3 - deteriorating.
r - financial; M - managerlal; T - technical; P - polltical; and 0 - other.
RA - Not applicable
BEST COPY AVAIUBLE



(iii)
ROMANIA
FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 1169-RO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
During July 1975 serious floods caused extensive damage in Romania.
This project aimed to provide relief from the flood damage over a three year
period. Special measures were taken to speed up appraisal and the loan was
approved within four months of the time of the floods. The project included
provision of farm credit to 1,300 farms which had suffered flood damage,
and reclamation and rehabilitation of flood control, irrigation and drainage
works. It also included a small component for the installation of a new flood
warning system.
The Romanian authorities executed the project diligently and
efficiently. The main components for farm credit and rehabilitation of
flood control, irrigation and drainage works were completed well ahead of
schedule. However, the small flood warning component was delayed considerably
due to technical design problems and procurement delays.
Due to the emergency nature of this project, no attempt was made
to assess the economic rate of return either at appraisal or at project
completion.
Some of the other lessons learned and points of interest are as
follows:
- many procurement problems were encountered with this project,
primarily because of the difficulty experienced in reconciling
Government's normal procurement procedures with those expected by
the Bank;
- the flood warning system proposed for the project was innovative
and technologically complex. It was unrealistic to expect that
this could be completed quickly under an emergency aid project;
- the lack of an adequate monitoring and evaluation system made it
difficult to assess progress with project implementation, the
performance of project components, and project impact.



I. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Introduction
1.01     During the first 10 days of July 1975, serious floods caused
extensive physical damage in Romania. Immediately after the floods, the
Romanian Government began an urgent and comprehensive flood recovery program
and requested the Bank's assistance for its financing. A mission visited
Romania in the last part of July 1975 and reviewed with the Government its
measures for flood recovery. The project was then formulated on the basis of
the mission's findings, and on November 4, 1975, less than four months after
the floods, the Board of Directors approved two complementary loans for this
Flood Recovery Project (Report No. P-1699-RO, dated October 22, 1975); a
US$40 million loan to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) for
the agricultural component and a US$20 million loan to the Investment Bank
(IB) for the industrial and transportation components. The industrial and
transportation components have been completed in May 1978 and the agricultural
component on December 31, 1981. This report conceros the US$40 million loan
to BAFI for the implementation of the agricultural component.
B.  Project Background and Formulation
1.02     While Romania has experienced a series of floods in the recent past,
the 1975 floods were more widespread and caused more serious economic damage
than earlier floods. The floods dealt a serious blow to the economy. About
1.1 million hectares of agricultural land (10% of total cultivated area) were
flooded. Of these, 55Z were used to grow cereals, 27% fodder and pasture, 4%
vegetables and potatoes, 3% sugar beets and the balance oilseeds, fruits and
other crops. The floods, excessive ground moisture, and hail resulted in
losses of 75-90% of the planned production of crops in the affected areas.
Furthermore, about 190,000 head of livestock and 3 million poultry were
drowned, 6,500 ha of tree crops were permanently destroyed, 18,000 tons of
stored cereals valued at about Lei 20 million (US$1.0 million) and about Lei
100 million (USt5 million) worth of livestock products were lost. Damages to
farm buildings and equipment are estimated at about Lei 530 million. About
30% of the flooded areas and the livestock and poultry drowned were owned by
the State Agricultural Enterprises and the balance by the Agricultural
Cooperatives. These losses cost the economy an estimated Lei 7.7 billion
(US$384 million). In addition, about 250 industrial enterprises and housing
and community facilities were damaged in 1,300 villages and 65 towns, some
2,600 km of rail network (24Z of Romania's network) and about 3,400 km of
national roads (25% of Romania's network) were affected. The total losses
excluding extensive damage to housing and social facilities were quantified by
the July 1975 mission at about US$790 million, and were split about evenly
between production (including crops) and asset losses. The production loss
represented 2.4 percent of 1974 national income and the asset loss 6.2 percent
of 1974 gross domestic investment.
1.03     The Romanian Government took immediate measures to correct the
problems caused by the flood. While supporting and guiding the efforts of the
population to protect and save life and property, it also issued appeals to
potential international and bilateral sources for assistance to supplement
local efforts. The Bank was one of the first foreign agencies to respond to
the Romanian appeal. Upon its arrival in Romania on July 21, some 10 days



after the Government request for Bank Assistance, the six man
interdisciplinary Bank Mission began surveyinR the extent of flood damage. It
then concentrated on evaluating the needs of key sectors of the economy and
defining a potential Bank project to support the Government Flood Recovery
Program. Two Romanian agencies-the Investment Bank and the Bank for
Agricultural and Food Industry--both already familiar with the Bank, assisted
io the Bank mission's work. The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry had
received two Bank loans - Loan 1082-RO Irrigation Project (1975) and Loan
1083-RO Agriculture and Credit Project (1975). The Investment Bank had been
the borrower for tbree previous loans: Loan 1020-RO Fertilizer Project
(1974), Loan 1027-RO Special Steel Project (1975), and Loan 1028-RO Thermal
Power Project (1975). This prior familiarization and the higb priority
granted by the Romanian leadership to the Bank assistance mission facilitated
the Bank work and the identification of potential problems. After tbe
mission's return to Washington, the proposed loan was quickly processed in
order to maximize the Bank's effectiveness in assisting Romania's flood
recovery efforts. Negotiations were initiated with the Romanian authorities
on September 16, 1975, within six weeks of the mission's return to
beadnuarters.
1.04     Two special considerations due to specific concerns expressed by the
Government arose during the formulation of the project. First, in order to
minimize the adverse impact of the flood on Romania's trade balance, the
Romanian authorities did not want the project to finance primarily imports of
equipment. The Government initially wanted the loan proceeds to be
distributed mainly against local expenditures for rehabilitation works and use
only part of the loan for agriculture and transportation rehabilitation
euuipment. Second, the Romanian autborities initially did not want the
Bank-financed enuipment to be procured under international competitive bidding
but only under Romanian procedures, reportedly to minimize procurement
delays. During project formulation and subsecuent lengthy negotiations, these
issues were substantially accommodated within the Bank's established policy of
financing foreign exchange requirements. In addition, the principles under
which international competitive bidding would be used for a substantial amount
of procurement under the Project without delaying implementation were agreed
upon, as well as the modalities for procurement of Bank-financed eauipment
under international shopping. These issues are addressed in detail in Section
II.E (Procurement).
C. Project Objectives and Description
1.05     The US$40 million loan to BAFI was to finance the agricultural
component of the project and included several elements of the Government's
flood rebabilitation program in the sector to be executed in the sbort-medium
term. The agricultural component of the project consisted of (i) credit
extended to about 1,300 farms wbich bave sustained serious flood losses. It
included urgently needed rehabilitation and investments on flood-damaged farms
which would otherwise have to be deferred as a result of the floods; (ii) the
project also included a land reclamation component c9nsistiog of
rehabilitation of damaged flood control, irrigation and drainage works at 259
different locations; and (iii) the installation of specialized flood warning
eguipment at 45 remote sensing stations, 4 data collection and control
regional centers, and I central data processing center.



-3-
D. Implementation Arrangements
1.06     The borrowing agency--BAFI--bad the overall responsibility for
coordinating the implementation of the project's components. BAFI also bad
the responsibility for carrying out the agricultural credit component. The
rehabilitation of flood control, irrigation, and drainage works was carried
out by the National Water Council through the Special Hydro-technical Works
Trust. The Trust implemented the major works wbile the local district units
(wbich are also under the Trust's jurisdiction) undertook the smaller
construction works. Upon completion these works were operated and maintained
by the Water Authority of each river basin. The third component--the flood
warning system-was implemented by the Institute of Meteorology and
Hydrology. Upon completion, the Institute began tbe $traiing of specialized
staff for banding over the operation of the remote stations and control
centers to the local Water Autbority Agency. -The central coordinating and
control center in Bucharest remains under the direction of the Institute.
Overall procurement arraogements were handled by the Foreign Trade
Organization - Romagrimex, while tender documents, technical specifications,
and bid evaluatioo were prepared by the Institute of Design of the National
Water Council and by the Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Loan Negotiations and Effectiveness
2.01     During negotiations the only major issue concerned the procurement
arrangements to be followed under the loan. The Romanian authorities
initially were reluctant to accept that equipment for the project be procured
under ICB. However, procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank were agreed
upon. These set forth the type of equipment to be procured under ICB and
determined that equipment for the flood warning system should be procured
through limited international tendering due to its highly specialized nature
and the need for compatibility.
2.02     No special condition had to be met for loan effectiveness.  The loan
became effective on December 2, 1975, about 3 weeks after loan signing.
B. Project Implementation
2.03     The three project components were expected to be completed by
end-December 1978. The land reclamation component and the agricultural credit
component were actually completed 2 full years ahead of scbedule, by the end
of December 1976, while the flood warning system suffered great delays and was
completed only by the end of December 1981, three years behind schedule. It
was due to the considerable delay in the implementation of this component that
the loan closing date was extended by 18 montbs from June 30, 1979 to December
31, 1980.
Land Reclamation Component
2.04     Pbysical implementation of this component was faster than expected.
The rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control works was
completed for an area totaling 132,000 ba and flood control works (canals and
dykes) were rebuilt over a total extension of 140 km. The construction
eouipment for carrying out these works was procured under ICB and was supplied



-4-
in a timely fashion to the specialized construction organizations responsible
for the works. All together, 259 subprojects have been completed in 20
different river basins.
Agricultural Credit Component
2.05     The implementation of the credit component was also carried out
expeditiously and was completed by December 1976, 24 mooths abead of
scbedule. This component financed rebabilitation works and viable investments
(including livestock, construction of facilities, agricultural machinery) in
state-farms and cooperatives wbose crop and livestock production had suffered
losses in excess of 20% of their planned production targets in 1975. The
subprojects financed include 130 state farms, 1,170 cooperatives, and 73 food
industry units.
2.06     An issue concerning the composition of subprojects and related Bank
disbursements arose during the initial phase of implementation. Withdrawal
applications submitted by BAFI for the period August 1975 through February
1976 included subprojects wbich totalled far more than the US$100 million that
the Bank agreed to assist in financing (Para. 5, Scbedule I of the Loan
Agreement). In addition, the data supplied by BAWI on the forms supporting
the witbdrawal requests included investments made prior to the August 1, 1975
date established for Bank financing in the Loan Agreement. The Bank withbeld
reimbursement in February 1976 to clarify the issue with BAFI. As a result of
several meetings, BAFI prepared a detailed breakdown of investment subprojects
to be included in the US$100 million limit, which met the criteria established
in the Loan Agreement. No furtber problems occurred in the implementation of
the credit component.
Flood Warning System Component
2.07     This component included specialized sensing devices, radio
traosmission and relay systems and otber related equipment whicb was installed
at remote stations and data collection centers of a regional flood warning
system.
2.08     This regional system would be tbe first stage of the overall national
program for flood warning, and it would cover the upper river basins and
mountainous areas of the Arges, Buzau and Siret basins. This part of the
flood warning program was financed by the loan and was approved by the
government as late as November 1979, after more than 2 years of detailed
design preparation and testing and almost 4 years after the loan became
effective.
2.09     The system includes 45 remote sensing stations, out of which 23
hydromoteorological stations transmitting data on water level, rainfall and
air temperature; 18 meteorological stations measuring rainfall and
temperature; 4 complex meteorological stations which, in addition to the above
parameters, also measure wiod velocity, pressure, and solarimetric
characteristics.
2.10     In addition, there are 4 regional cootrol and collection centers
located in Suceava, Bacau, Buzau, and Pitesti, which collect data from their
subsystems and transmit them to the main center in Bucbarest.



-5-
2.11     Compared to the appraisal estimates, there were 25
hydromoteorological stations and 2 regional control and collection centers
less than foreseen. This was due to the fact that at appraisal the design was
not yet finalized and the tentatively estimated costs for the imported
equipment were substantially lower than the actual costs.
2.12     The warning system also included a computer system and related
equipment for an automatic data processing ceoter in Bucharest. This center
collects and processes the data from the regional centers and prepares daily
forecasts and flood monitoring reports.
2.13     Construction of the facilities began in 1977 and was completed in
late 1981, three years later than the appraisal estimate.
2.14     The delay was due to several factors;
(a) the difficulties and delays experienced by the Institute of Desigo
and Research in the preparation of designs and specifications for
such an innovative and bigbly complex system, especially in view of
the limited local expertise on such systems and of the technical
requirements for making compatible the equipment supplied by a large
number of different manufacturers;
(b) the related prolonged test requirements prior to installation;
(c) the procurement problems wbich substantially delayed the awarding of
contracts for the equipment (para. 2.27);
{d)  the logistic difficulties for the construction of the remote sensing
stations located at bigb altitude sites, accessible by helicopter
only during 2-3 months of the year.
2.15     The system started partial operations in 1981 and was working at full
capability in March 1983.
C. Project Cost and Financing
2.16     According to the information provided by BAFI, the actual total cost
of the project was close to the appraisal estimate--US$127.1 million compared
to US$121.7 million, or +4.4%.
2.17     However, when broken down by component, there are significant
differences between appraisal and actual costsz -33Z for the land reclamation
component, +400% for the flood warning system, and +2% for the credit
component, as shown below.



-6-
2.18
Investment Costs by Components (Lei Million)
Investment Costs
Project Components               Estimated        Actual        Variation
(Lei)    (Z)
A. Land reclamation works                  288            193       -95    (-33)
B. Flood warning system                     40            200      +160   (+400)
C. Agricultural credit                   2,106          2,148       +42      (+2)
TOTAL (Lei million)                 2,434         2,541       +107      (+4.4)
(US$ million)                  121.7          127.1       +5.4   (.4.4)
2.19     The major source of the cost variation was the substantially
underestimated cost of the flood warning system component due to a more
sophisticated design than envisaged at appraisal and a decrease in the cost of
the land reclamation component, while the credit component remained relatively
unchanged. Since the flood warning equipment was mainly imported, whereas a
Substantial share of the land reclamation component coosisted of local costs,
the Romanian autborities preferred to allocate scarce foreign exchange (from
IBRD funds) to the former. In retrospect, this appears to have beeo an
appropriate decision.
2.20     The foreign exchange component based on actual subproject costs is
estimated at US$55 million or 432 of the total investment cost, compared to
162 estimated at appraisal. This discrepancy was due to the underestimation
at appraisal of the foreign exchange cost of the land reclamation and credit
components.
2.21     A detailed project cost breakdown is shown in Annex 1.
Project Financing
2.22     Of the total project cost, the IBRD loan amounted to Lei 793 million
(312), BAFI loans totalled Lei 1,696 million (672) and beneficiary equity
funds Lei 52 million (22). The detailed financing plan is given io Aonex 2.
The financing plan at appraisal did not differentiate between the industrial
and agricultural components, hence it is not possible to compare it witb the
actual financing of the individual agricultural component. However, the
appraisal evaluation did indicate that about US$5.3 million or 52 of tbe
agricultural component would be finasced by the beneficiaries. In fact, only
2X of the total agricultural component cost was fioanced by beneficiaries
(about US$2.6 million). The main reason for this difference is that the farms
tended to allocate their available funds to maintain the level of investmeots
envisaged in the overall 1976-1980 plan and relied oo a larger share of BAFI
and IBRD loans to finance the reconstruction and rebabilitation works.



-7-
D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
2.23     During implementation, the allocation of the loan proceeds to the
project components was not cbanged from the originally planned as shown below:
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Appraisal
Category                                  Estimate        Actual
- - - - US$ '000 - --
Eauipment and spare parts for Part A of the Project
(Irrigation Drainage and Flood Control)                      7,200        7,200
Equipment for Part B of the Project (Flood Warning
Sys -em)                                                     1,800        2,800
Disbursements under BAFI - loans (Agricultural Credit)         30,000      30,000
Unallocated                                                     1,000
TOTAL                                                    40,000       40,000
2.24     The initially unallocated amount of US$1 million was reallocated on
July 1979 to the flood warning system component, since there was an increased
need for funds for this component due to the original underestimation of its
cost.
E. Procurement
2.25     Total procurement contracts awarded under the loan amounted to
US$9.9 million, in line with the amount envisaged at appraisal. Construction
equipment for the land reclamation works valued at US$7.1 million was procured
togetber with the eauipment for the Giurgui-Razmiresti project. A list of
procurement contracts awarded is attached in Aonex 3, including the equipuent
for the Flood Warning System, valued at US$2.8 million.
Eouipment for Land Reclamation Works
2.26     There were procurement problems initially wben Romagrimex elected to
pre-aualify potential equipment suppliers and issued tender documents witbout
prior Bank approval. This issue was subsenuently resolved by rebidding and no
further problems arose. The eauipmeot reauired for this component-scrapers,-
draglines, bulldozers, graders, and dump trucks--was bulked and included in
the ICB for the Giurgui Razmiresti Project. Bids were opened in April 1976;
all contracts, valued at US$6.8 million were awarded to Romanian firms in
May/June 1976. Loaders, compaction rollers, and concrete mixers in the amount
of US$0.3 million were purchased under local procedures in accordance with
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.



- 8-
Equipment for Flood Warning System
2.27     International bidding took place in January 1977, but tbe contract
award was finalized only by April 1978. This delay was due to deviations from
the techaical specifications by all nine bidding firms. Technical
clarification discussions were necessary, wbicb resulted in new bidding. Bid
evaluation proved technically difficult due to a lack of familiarity with
performance features of the various alternatives offered and the difficulty in
ensuring tecbnical compatibility between the equipment of different
manufacturers. Two major contracts totalling US$0.9 million were awarded to
foreign firms and one to a Romanian company amounting to US$1.9 million.
Procurement of special sensors for measuring sunlight, humidity, and water
content of snow was undertaken tbrougb Ioternational Sbopping.
2.28     The considerable delay in bid evaluation and contract awarding was
the major factor determining the postponement of tbe project completion by
over two years.
2.29     This experience indicated that had this eauipment been procured as a
complete system package, as initially proposed by the Bank but rejected by the
Romanians, many of these problems could bave been avoided and the bidding
procedure and contract awarding expedited.
2.30     Another factor to be noted is that tbe Bank's project was a partial
component of the overall Romanian Flood Recovery Program. The implementation
of the overall Program by the ministries and enterprises was to be parallel
but somewbat different in its procurement aspects from the Bank project
coordinated by BAFI, wbicb followed procurement procedures agreed upon during
negotiations. The difference in procurement procedures between the Bank
financed and non-Bank financed items led to misunderstandings and difficulties
during project implementation.
F. Disbursements
2.31     The loan was disbursed completely by the end of January 1981, 18
montbs later than foreseen. In the first year, $36.4 million were disbursed,
exceeding the projected disbursement schedule due to rapid implementation of
priority investments under the agricultural credit component. This probably
reflects the expediency with whicb Romanian agencies tend to carry out formal
directives referring to the implementation of priority policies. The balance
of $3.6 million was disbursed tbroughout January 1981 for equipment for the
flood warning system ($2.8 million) and $0.8 million for construction
eauipment for land reclamation works. The delay in loan witbdrawals was
caused by the delay of the bid awarding for the flood warning equipment. The
loan proceeds were disbursed in accordance witb the allocation set forth by
the loan agreement. The scbedule of disbursements is sbown in Annex 4.
2.32     The loan was initially expected to be closed by June 30, 1979.  The
closing date was first extended to December 31, 1979, and later to December
31, 1980, as a result of the problems that occurred in the implementation of
the automated flood warning system.



-9-.
G.  Compliance with Loan Covenants
2.33     Despite initial difficulties with procurement, all the covenants
agreed in the loan documents were complied with.
III. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
3.01     The flood recovery program undertaken within the framework of this
project made a substantial positive impact .
3.02     The construction trusts made considerable efforts to rehabilitate
flood damaged irrigation, drainage, and flood control works in a timely
fashion. Operational conditions have reached normal levels within 6 to 9
months on average, a relatively short period considering the extent of the
damages. A detailed list of the rehabilitation works indicating the location
and the starting and completion dates is shown in Annex 7.
3.03     The 1,300 state and cooperative farm units which have benefitted from
subloans under the project have been able to achieve a fast recovery. On
average, those farms reached in 1976 a production level of 88B of the level
prior to the floods, a relevant indication that the flood impact had been
basically overcome.  In 1977, about 90Z of the farms already surpassed the
pre-flood level of production.
3.04     Partial operation of the flood warning system started in 1981, while
the remainder of the system was being completed and specialized staff
trained. At the end of the first quarter of 1983, the whole system became
operational. Except for normal debugging and adjustments during operation
startup, the system is operating satisfactorily.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A.  The Borrower - Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
4.01     For this project, BAFI was in charge of (i) coordinating the Bank
related project activities with the different ministries and enterprises; (ii)
collecting information and reporting it to the Bank for monitoring project
implementation; (iii) ensuring adherence by other agencies to procurement
procedures and centralizing disbursements requests; and (iv) carrying out the
Agricultural Credit component of the project.
4.02     BAFI had a limited role in the design and implementation of the
project since within the Romanian system the responsibility for this was
assigned to specialized agencies, however it did have direct responsibility
for the credit component 11.
4.03     In carrying out the implementation of the credit component, BAFI had
difficulties in the identification of agricultural subprojects and in
1/ The Borrower contends that it controlled the physical implementation of
subprojects, but in the Bank's assessment its role was more limited to
coordinating and monitoring functions while the implementing agencies had
the actual responsibility for carrying out the specific subprojects.



- 10 -
providing appropriate information on subproject implementation. BAFI purely
passed on the loan proceeds to the enterprises but was not responsible for the
implementation and supervision. Data supplied by the Romanians in the
reporting forms made it difficult to know precisely the total amount of BAFI
Loans committed against Bank's disbursements. At a certain stage, withdrawal
applications submitted by BAFI referred to more than the US100 million in
on-farm investments (set out in the Loan Agreement, Para. 4, Schedule 1) which
the Bank agreed to assist in financing. Disbursements had to be withheld and
a lengthy discussion took place to clarify the issue.  BAFI prepared a
revised, detailed list of subprojects which met the criteria established in
the Loan Agreement and which was agreed upon by the Bank, and disbursements
were subsequently resumed.
4.04     Notwithstanding these initial problems in subloan definition, BAEI's
overall performance in implementing the Agricultural Credit Component was
generally satisfactory. Over 4,500 subloans were made to investors who had
suffered losses in excess of 20% of their respective annual production target
planned for 1975.
4.05     There were procurement problems initially when Romagrimex elected to
pre-qualify potential equipment suppliers and issued tender documents without
Bank prior approval. The lack of compliance with procurement requirements
stem mostly from the fact that Romanian procurement procedures are sometimes
in conflict with the Bank's guidelines (para. 2.26).
4.06     BAFI performance in coordinating the project implementation with
various agencies involved was generally satisfactory having in view that BAFI
had only limited control over investment implementation and project
supervision of other agencies in charge of actual project design and
imp lementation.
B. The Beneficiaries
4.07     MAFI and NWC had the overall responsibility for the physical project
implementation through the various farm units, water authority agencies and
other enterprises which directly benefitted from the project and carried out
the subproject implementation. The supervision of project implementation was
under the responsibility of the General Directorate for Agriculture and Food
Industry (under MAFI) and the General Directorate for Water Management (under
NWC) in each district. MAFI and NWC provided the investment planning and the
project design through their specialized Institutes.
4.08     The direct beneficiaries included state farms, cooperative farms,
food industry enterprises, heavy equipment enterprises for land reclamation
works, State Mechanization Units, local Water Authority agencies and the
Meteorological and Hydrological Institute. These various organizations
carried out their implementation responsibilities with diligence and effort.
The rehabilitation of all the irrigation, drainage and flood control works was
completed by December 1976-2 years ahead of schedule (para. 2.03). The total
amount allocated for agricultural credit was efficiently and expeditiously
utilized, also 2 years ahead of schedule (para. 2.03). Only the
implementation of the flood warning system suffered considerable delay due to
the procurement, technical and logistical problems discussed in paras. 2.07
through 2.16.



- 11 -
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND EVALUATION
5.01     Due to the emergency nature of the project and the large number of
organizations involved, it was not possible to perform detailed financial and
economical analyses in appraising the project. For the same reason, the
project formulation did not provide for specific economic and financial
yardsticks to measure the performance of BAFI and the different organizations
as they implemented the project. It was not feasible to estimate incremental
benefits, even in aggregate terms, due to the difficulties in obtaining data
from the large number of project units and beneficiaries; the difficulty in
assessing the 'without project' case; and the difficulty in measuring the
impact of the rehabilitation of flood control works and of the flood warning
system.
5.02     Although due to the unique nature of the project no economic rate of
return has been calculated, it is clear that the successful implementation of
the overall Flood Recovery Program and of this project did have a major
positive impact on the Romanian economy. If calculated, the economic return
for the agricultural component of the Recovery Program should be very high,
because of the large sunk costs of facilities which could not be fully
utilized and the high incremental benefits of putting them back into use. The
impact of the recovery efforts cau be appreciated by the fact that, in spite
of direct losses which for production alone amounted to about 2.4% of the
national income and for fixed assets totalled about 6.2% of gross domestic
investment, Romania did achieve a 9.8% overall ecooomic growth in 1975. In
particular, the gross agricultural production in 1975 increased by about 3% in
spite of the damages caused by the flood, and by about 14% in 1976 making up
for the lower increase in 1975 and basically reaching the original plan
target. Thus, the flood impact was substantially reduced and normal
production levels resumed.
5.03     At the level of individual farm units, quick production recovery was
achieved through the timely availability of funds for rehabilitation.
Although production levels in 1975 were below 1974, these units achieved in
1976, on average, similar production levels to those prior to the flood snd in
1977 surpassed that level.
5.04     In addition, the incremental funds for the r covery program enabled
the program of sectoral investments to be maintainedl,, thus contributing
indirectly to the expansion of the productive assets base.
5.05     Another long term benefit of the Flood Recovery Project derives from
the technologically advanced flood warning system and flood prevention
measures which should reduce the loss to the economy of any possible similar
calamity in the future. The flood warning system includes monitoring stations
upstream on the rivers to regularly report water levels to factories, farm
units and cities downstream. The authorities have also set up organizational
arrangements to deal with future emergency situations. In terms of flood
prevention measures, the authorities took advantage of the experience learned
from the 1975 flood and have completed flood protection works--dikes,
reservoirs, modified river courses and water intakes around factories. These
should help minimize the economic disruption in the event of another flood.
1/ Lei 15.3 billion in 1974, Lei 17.6 billion in 1975, and Lei 19.8 billion
in 1976.



- 12 -
5.06     In summary, although they are difficult to assess quantitatively, the
economic impacts of the Flood Recovery Program were positive since (a)
Romania's economic growth kept its sustained pace in 1976 in spite of the
dramatic damages of the flood, and (b) the country was equipped with an
elaborate and effective flood warning and flood prevention system.
VI. BANK'S ROLE AND PERFORMANCE
Project Objectives and Formulation
6.01     The Bank has traditionally assisted the economic development of its
member countries by financing "classical" investment projects. It has not
financed many reconstruction projects. Accordingly, its organizational and
operational set ups were not designed for emergency operations and do not
easily permit handling of disaster recovery projects. An issue is whether the
Bank should lend for disaster recovery projects or whether it should restrict
its operations to projects which can be thoroughly prepared, appraised, and
supervised. The experience on this project shows that with appropriate
flexibility it is feasible for the Bank to respond and meet reconstruction
needs. However, in this as in other cases, implementation usually takes mueb
longer than expected, and initial estimates of works required are not always
reliable.
6.02     In view of the emergeacy character of this project and of the
diversity of works to be performed under the Romanian Flood Recovery Program,
the Bank had very limited impact on the design and implementation of the
project. However, it should be considered that the Bank's project was set up
within a broader national flood recovery program which included a
comprehensive strategy for recovering the losses and rehabilitating the
sector's productive base.
6.03     The project formulation within this context was therefore deemed
appropriate in view of tbe Bank's objectives in participating in the overall
flood recovery program; to support and finance specific components of the
Recovery program, to maintain a direct link between the rehabilitation of the
flood damage and the goods and enterprises financed by the Bank, and to ensure
that procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank were used for Bank-financed
items. Whether the Bank should have had more control over investment
selection and project design was not an issue, since the Government recovery
program clearly included high priority rehabilitation investments, which bad
been reviewed by the Bank.
Project Processing
6.04     The Bank was effective in quickly processing this loan, as called for
by the emergency nature of the project. The Loan was approved by the Board of
Directors on November 4, 1975, only 3-1/2 months after appraisal. This was
followed by, and contributed to, a very fast implementation of the
rebabilitation of the land reclamation works and of the agricultural credit
component.



- 13 -
Implementation and Supervision
6.05     During the implementation years, nine supervision missions visited
Romania. Except for the Flood Warning System, the other components were
implemented ahead of schedule. Supervision missions reported to the Borrover
the Bank's concern about the delay in the Flood Warning Component, however,
the Borrower had no leverage to speed up implementation.
6.06     The frequency of supervision missions was appropriate for the
project. Due to the nature of the problems faced during project
implementation, more supervision would not have contributed significantly to
the efficiency of implementation while consuming more staff time.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Overall Assessment
7.01     The Romanian authorities managed the National Flood Recovery Program
diligently and efficiently. This program had major positive impacts on
Romania's economic performance in 1975 and 1976. The Bank project, which was
designed to support and finance specific parts of this Flood Recovery Program,
faced mainly procurement related difficulties. These were only partially due
to the nature of the project and its design and were related to problems
commonly faced by other ongoing projects in Romania. The criteria for
evaluating the performance of the loan should be whether there was a good
reconstruction program and whether the implementation of the program was
efficient. In view of the recovery results achieved, the performance was
satisfactory.
Lessons to be Learned
7.02     The following lessons emerge from the experience of this project.
(a) the considerable problems faced by the flood warning system caused a
significant delay in the project implementatioin, which had a too long
duration for a project of an emergency character. We believe that
innovative and technologically complex components should not be
recommended for projects of an emergency nature, but included in future
projects related to the particular sector in question;
(b) the project would have benefitted if performance indicators had been
established to monitor directly project implementation, instead of
- obtaining indirectly limited documentary information through BAFI. The
lack of a monitoring and evaluation system made it more difficult to
measure the implementation progress and performance of project components;
(c) one of the main factors which contributed to the problems, which is also
encountered by the Bank in some of its other operations, is BAEI's lack
of control over other government agencies in charge of actual project
design, procurement and implementation. This stresses the importance of
more direct Bank contacts, irrespective of who the actual Borrower is,
with the Romanian agencies responsible for the implementation of projects.



- 14 -
(d) the majority of issues this project faced were procurement related. The
difference in Romanian and Bank procurement procedures was a major
factor. Under their normal procedures for procurement of imported
equipment, the agency responsible for procurement resorts to lengthy
technical and commercial negotiations simultaneously with a number of
selected bidders. Even after the selection of a successful bidder, the
decision is subject to review by the Ministry of Foreign Trade who can
either veto the decision or ask the agency to renegotiate. For the Flood
Warning System Component, considerable delay has resulted in procuring
the equipment. This was due to the system's innovative character and its
specialized nature and complexity. Another problem was that the
implementing agency responsible for the technical features of the
equipment being procured had little concern about procurement procedures
and the implications of not following the Loan Agreement and Bank
Guidelines for Procurement. In subsequent projects, Romanian authorities
have endeavored to follow procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
7.03     In particular, the following points should be taken into
consideration:
(a)  an adequate organizational set up for handling procurement matters has to
be defined, and clear lines of responsibility assigned and agreed upon by
the Bank before loan effectivenessA';
(b) emphasis should be placed in ensuring that staff experienced in handling
Bank procurement matters is assigned--or if not available, trained--to
the specific agencies to be involved in project procurement issues;
Cc) if innovative and/or technologically complex components are included, the
status of design preparation has to be sufficiently advanced prior to
loan approval in order not to cause subsequent delays in project
implementation;
(d) in addition, for a complex system it may be preferable to have the
components procured as a complete package to minimize problems related to
compatibility of design, specifications, and operation of many
subcomponents supplied by different manufacturers.
1/   This has been subsequently achieved.  Romagrimex and BAFI, through the
experience of other Bank projects, have developed the expertise and
established an adequate set up for handling procurement matters.



- 15 -                 ATTACHMENT I
BORROWER' S COMHENTS
SACA PENTRU AGRICLLTURA                    Bucar'leI ..... d .   . 'G    .
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
PRE5EDIt.Tn.
Mr. Shiv Kapur
Operations Evaluation Dept.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
Ref. to the final project Report "Flood Recovery Project"
(loan 1169-RO)
We have carefully reviewed the completion Report and have
noticed with satisfaction that Bank has reached to favourabile con-
clusions concerning to the project implementettion and to its impact
on Romanian agriculture. The emergency measures taken by the Govern-
ment Authorities and their application in practice have determined
the recovery in a short time of the damages caused by the floods
and led to the maintenance of initial figures of growth. An important
role was played by Bank in its financed project who provided part
of the necessary reconstruction funds. I would like to thank on this
way to Mr. S.Niaz, the appraisal mission chief who prepared in a
shorter period a less common project and was able to find reasonable
solutions in matching our working system with the IBRD system.
In the report some comments are made which I consider that
they are not reflecting accurately the project implementation and
the role of some institutions involved in the project. Concerning
this we are making the following comments:
(a) I consider that too many comments were made on the
procurement issue and then it was extented as a common problem to
the other projects (parag. 2.29, 7.o2, 7.03). It is to be mentioned
that part of thu procurements (2.B mil.S) relating to the flood war-
ning system which is characteristically to this system are not
found in any other project financed by IBRD in our country; to the
other equipment in amount of 7.1 mil.$ there were no problems. Se-
condly, I consider that it is better to make a more detailed review
and finally to take those decissions which involve money savings
rather than rushing and pay more money. The practice which we adopted
brought substantial savings which is not a neglectable aspect.
I also consider that there is no discrepancy between the
Romanian procedure and IBRD guidelines as far as the procurement is
concerned (paragraphes 4.o5 and 7.o2). This problem was discussed in
detail with IBRD specialistsand all aspects had been clarified. Per-
sonally I held discussions with IBRD representatives, then I organi-
zed discussions in the Ministry for Foreign Trade and International
Economic Cooperation and finally I considered that there were no
.1. 



- 16 -
problems. That is why I feel that there is no need to tackle some
problems already solved which are in fact closed.
(b) As far as the Agricultural Bank's (BAPI) role is con-
cerned in the project implementation I am surprised by some comments
which are not really accurate (paragraph 4.o2). BAPI - as the Guver--
namental Institution grants loans to the beneficiary units ioaording
to our lows, it controls the physical implementation and cost invest-
ment, credit reimbursment and the technical-economic indicators du-
ring the operation period of the project. As the borrower it has as-
sumed the responsability for the project implementation and has ac-
ted together with the other guvernamental authorities in providing
fundsand material resources, in supervisiAg investment implementation
and reviewing the economic and financial activity during project life.
I believe that after lo years of cooperation with IBRD we
should not raise these aspects anymore.
If we make reference to the subproject list (paragraph
4.03) I have to point out that BAFI has financed a larger number of
subprojects that those included in the loan. Initially BAFI proposed
a large number of subprojects so that IBRD together with BAFI had
to select the most representative ones in the loan limit of loo mil.$.
We cannot consider this being a problem, it is a working technique
aspect which is paid more attention than it is necessary.
ge) In the report it was not given sufficient attention to
the foreign exchange component of the project. At appraisal, the fo-
reign exchange component was underestimated (20 mil.$ against 55
mil.$ in the final report) and has affected the bulk of loan. If
BAPI had benefited from a larger loan as it was normal and it was
sustained during nagocia1ions the efforts of romanian part would
have been lower and the volume of investment from different branches
would have not diminished.
Taking into account the abovementioned comments I consider
that the Completion Report is reflecting the reality. My personal be-
lief isthat IBRD should pay more attention to those emergency pro-
jects and take steps for the appraising technique, payment and con-
trol of investment implementation.
Yours sincerely,
I oil
sident
.r



- 17 -
Annex 1
PROJECT COST
(Lei million)
Investment Cost        Z of Foreign
Components                       Local   Foreign  Total       Exchange
A. Land Reclamation Works                    75       118      193          61
- construction equipment                  50       93       143         65
- repair of pumping stations              25       25        50         50
B. Flood Warning System                      74       126      200          63
- remote sensing stations                 61       75       13;         55
- data processing center                  13       51        64         80
C. Agricultural Credit                    1,289      859    2,148          40
- orchards                                14        5        19         25
- livestock                              270        -       270          -
- equipment                              324      601       925         65
- pasture improvement                     82       20       102         20
- vineyards                               27        8        35         25
- storage and plastic greenhouses         13        6        19         30
- livestock: construction and
maintenance                          268      115      383          30
- other facilities saintenance            67       29        96         30
- repairs of land reclamation works    224         75       299         25
TOTAL (Lei million)              1,438    1,103    2,541           43



- 18 -
Annex 2
PROJECT FINANCING
(Lei million)
IBRD    BAFI    Beneficiaries'
Project Compocents                Loans   Loans      own funds       Total
Part A  (Land Reclamation)                  143       50                       193
of which:
- construction equipment                 143       -            -           143
- pumping stations maintenance             -      50                         50
Part B  (Flood Warning System)               50       98          52           200
of which;
- remote sensing stations                 42      98            -           140
- automated data processing center         8       -           52            60
Part C  (Agricutural Credit)                600   1,548            -         2,148
of which:
- equipment procurement                  277     648                        925
- rehabilitation works                   323     900            -         1,223
TOTAL (Lei million)                      793   1,696           52         2,541
(US$ million)                      39.7    84.8          2.6         127.1
Share                                    31%     67%           2X          0OOZ



- 19 -
Auoe 3
LTSr OF PFnCUI OONWACXS
Actual
Eu-inted            Value  4ilM)                  Omtry of
Iteu             Quantity   Quatity  _I      rW      Procedure       Ori
Part A Equipnt for Land Reclaatiai Work
-  toracrapers (11 Um)       50       50      45.3    2.22  I.C.B.       Razaia
- Draglire. (1 r3)
(inrluding spare parts)   11       11      14.0    0.70  I.C.B.       RMPia
- Bulldozers (l50 H.P.)      70       70      52.8    2.64  I.C.B.       Raumui
- Motorgrader (18D H.P.)     10       10       8.0    0.45  I.C.B.    RIaia
- Ioders (0.8uP)             10       10       1.9    0.09  Local        Ri}lia
Procuret
- Oactors (6-8 toos)        20        20       2.0    0.10  LJocl        Rainia
Promwmet
-  ump Tucks (10 tces)      40        40      16.8    0.84  I.C.B.       RoAnsiA
- Cocrete mi9ers (40 1)     50        50       2.0    0.10  Local        Rma
Procuremet
Subtotal                                142.8    7.14
Part B Reaote Sensing Stations Eauipment
- Ralio epnut sensors        -         -      14.4    0.74  L.C.B.       aglaid
and spare prts
- Batteries, wind sensors,    -        -       4.3    0.22 I.C.B.        France
balizes
- Autcmated control equipment -        -      35.6    1.84  I.C.B.       Iuaia
Subtotal                -         -      54.3    2.80
.N&                                          197.1    9.94 (of ibich 9.6 IM and
0.3 local prouwemt)
BEST COP AVAILABLE



- 20 -
Annex 4
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
at the end of year
(us$ million)
Year                             Eatiusted         Actual
December 31, 1976                        27.0             36.4
December 31, 1977                        40.0             36.6
December 31, 1978                         -               36.9
December 31, 1979                         -               38.1
December 31, 1980                         -               39,1
January 31,  1981                         -               40.0



-21 -
Annex 5
Value of Production of Selected Agricultural Units
Affected by the Flood for the Period 1973-1977
Gross Agricultural Production Value
Agricultural             River                      (Lei Million)
Unit                  Basin         1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
1.  Agrocoop Sohatu           Dimbovita         o.a.   27.2    14.2    24.7    28.0
2.  I.I.C.I.P. Condeesti       lalomita        17.4    18.2    13.3    17.8    18.9
3.  CAP Valea Bnjorului       Danube            9.8    10.5      6.5     9.9    11.8
4.  CAP Nicolae Balcescu      Mostistea        15.4    16.2    11.1    14.9    16.7
5.  CAP Fundulea              Mostistea        17.8    19.5    13.5    17.1    19.8
6.  CAP Nana                  Arges            22.9    25.7    17.4    22.1    26.5
7.  CAP Soldaou               Arges            14.7    16.8    11.3    15.4    17.7
8.  CAP Crivedia - Racari    Crevedia          10.9    11.4      7.4     9.7    12.0
9.  CAP Fundeni               Mostistea        19.6    20.8    15.7    17.4    18.9
10. CAP Berceni               Sabary          14.8    15.7    11.1    14.0    16.7
11. AEICPT Deieni             Danube          68.0    74.0    49.7    56.3    78.3
12. CAP Daieni                Danube          28.9    32.7    23.4    27.5    33.8
13. CAP Peceneaga             Danube          22.7    24.6    14.9    23.5    26.2
14. CAP Fagaras               Danube          16.5    18.9    10.7    16.9    20.1
15. CAP Alamor                Mures            8.3      9.9     7.5      9.8    10.4
16. CAP Altina                Hirtibaciu       9.5    11.6      6.7      9.9    12.8
17. CAP Arpasul De Jos        Olt             17.8    18.5    12.6    17.9    20.3
18. CAP Loamnes               Tirnava Mare    8.8       9.9     5.1      9.3    10.7
19. CAP Seica Nare            Tirnava Mare   12.5    13.3       6.9    11.9    14.2
20. CAP Condeesti             Ialomita        17.8    18.1      9.5    16.3    18.7
TOTAL                                    354.1   413.5   268.5   362.3   432.5



- 22 -                              Annex 6
Equipment Procured for the Flood Warning Syste3
No. of Units      uS$
1. Equipment Supplied from UK
A. Radio Equipment
1. Radio transmissioo-reception equipment             106        479,375
2. Omni direcectional antennas                         15          5,570
3. Directional antennas                               112         23,800
4. Antenna cable                                    6,000 a       33,270
5. Installation materials                                         11,600
6. Maintenance equipment  -                                       52,275
7. Radio testing equipment                              5 sets    35,300
8. Spare parts                                                    20,400
661,590
B. Sensors
1. Temperature                                         54         26,645
2. Pressure                                             6         11,090
3. Solarmeters                                 -        5         13,290
51,025
Subtotal        712,615
2. Equipment Supplied from France
1. Wind Sensors                                         5         11,050
2. Zinc-air Batteries                                 171         99,160
3. Signal lamps                                        74        112,340
Subtotal        222,550
3. Equipment Supplied from Romania
1. Switcbing computer (Bucbarest)                       2        452,000
2. Switcbing computers in regional centers              4        437,000
3. Automatic stations for bydrometeorological
data collection                                    45        575,000
4. Retransmitting equipment                            25         20,000
5. Rain sensors                                        45        152,000
6. Water level sensors                                 23         56,000
7. Spare parts                                                   168,000
Subtotal      1,860,000
TOTAL                                                          2,795,165



-23 -                                         ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 9
ROMNIA
FLOD RECCVEhY PRDJECr
Loan 1169-R0
Rebabilitatioo of Irrigatioc, Drainage and Flood Ptotection Wokks
Iten No. in
Aoex 1 to       Date      Scbeduled      Actual
wype of Work             River  Suppleumotal   Work        Comletion   Completion
and L(tD                 BaSin  letter No. 1  Started        Date          Date
(1)                   (2)         (3)        (4)          (5)
Irrigation Works
1.  Irigatii Cateasca-Peio      Arges         11       15.07.1975  29.03.1976  29.03.1976
2. Irigatii Braila-Pbnare-
Siret, stasii pompare       Dunare        48       01.01.1976   31.05.1976  31.05.1976
3.  Irigatii Insula Mare a
Brailei                     Dunare        49       05.08.1975  31.12.1976  31.03.1976
4.  Irigatii Topalu-canale      Dunare         66      01.11.1975  30.06.1976  31.03.1976
5.  Irigatii Sice-canale       Dunare        67       01.11.1975  31.06.1976  31.03.1976
6. Irig. Sistret-Nedeia-
Jiu-orezarie                Jin            83      01.0l.r976  30.06.197b  30.06.1976
7.  Irig. Cetate-Galicea-
canale                      Dunare        84       01.10.1975  31.03.1976  30.06.1976
8. Irig. perimetrul Sadova-
Corabia                     Dunare        85       01.12.1975   30.06.1976  31.03.1977
9.  Irig. Galatui-Calarasi      Dunare        129      01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
10. Irig. Giurgiu-Bazinesti
zona B                      Dunare        138      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.09.1976
11. Irig. Giurgiu-Razmiresti
zooa A+ C                   Dunare        144      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
12. Irig. GoStinu-Greaca-
Ar%es                       Arges         139      01.01.1976  30.0o.1976  31.03.1977
13. Irig. Berceni-Vidra
Prumisani                   Dimbovita   140        01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.06.1976
14. Irig. Oltenita-Surlari
Darobaotu                   Dunare       143       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
15. Irigatii Mostistea          Mostistea    145       01.01.1976   31.03.1976   30.06.1976
16. Irig. Crivinas-inju Mare    Dunare       153       01.10.1975   30.06.197b  30.06.1976
17. Irigasii Halinga            Dunare       158       01.01.197b   31.03.1976  30.06.1976
18. Irig. Terasa Corabia        Olt          168       01.01.1976   31.03.1976   30.06.1976
19. Extind. irig. Stoenesti-
Visina                      Olt           169      01.01.1976  31.03.1976  30.06.1976
20. Aduct. statie paopare
Tintareni                   Prahova      174       01.01.1976  30.06.1976   30.09.1976
21. AMut. Draganesti            Prabova      175       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.12.1976
22. Auctiune Gorgota            Prabova      176       01.08.1975  30.06.1976   30.12.1976
23. Extiod. irig. DThbrava      Prabova      184       01.01.1976   31.06.1976  30.06.1976
24. Reammaj. irigatii
Dumbrava-Dragaoesti         Olt           186      01.08.1975  31.12.1976  31.03.1976
25. Aduct. Iazul Morilor        Prabova      188       01.01.1975   31.06.1976   31.06.1976
26. Aduct. Crivoc-Prabova
Ciorani                     Prabova      189       01.01.1976  31.06.1976  31.06.1976
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-24-                                              AANNEX 7
24 -                                           Page 2 of 9
It  NO. in
SAem  I to      Date      Scbedulea       Actual
Type of Work             River  Supplemotal   Woric         Cabpletion   Conpletuco
and Location             Basin  Letter No. I  Started        Date          Date
(1)                   (T)        (3)         (4)          (5)           (6)
27. Aduct. canal Leaot,si
derivatii                    Prahova      l90       OL.OL.1976   31.03.1976  30.12.1976
28. Irig. sistem Laslea-
Dbmbraveai                   Mures        207       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  30.09.1976
29. Irig. sisten Seliiber       Olt          208       01.01.1976  31.06.1976   30.L2.1976
30. Irigatii Babadag            Dunare       221       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
31. Irigatii Sud-Razeln        DTnare        222       01.01.1976  01.06.1976   01.06.1976
32. Amenajare camplea
lacuri Razelir-Sioae        Dbware       223       01.10.1975   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
33. Irig. Seaca-Vinatori-
Suhaia (orezarie)           Dunare        233      01.08.1975  31.12.1975   31.12.1975
34. Irigatii Terasa
Olt-Calmatui                 Dtoare       234       01.10.1975   30.06.1976  31.03.1976
35. Irigatii Biliesti-
Ciorasti                     Siret        255       30.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
Drainage
36. Dese. cap. Pisculu -
-erisani                    Arges           7      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  40.06.1976
37. Irdiguire, desc. Teuz       ftres         34       01.01. 1976  30.06.1976   30.06.1976
38. Mures inferior-
supra-inaltare dig          NW"es         35       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
39. IrAig. rw Buza z2a
Gradistee-kawovita-dig      Buzau         43       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
40. Sistem desec. Buzoel-
nord-canale                  Buzau        40       01.09.1975   31.12.1976  31.03.1976
41. Indit., desec. Namoosa-
Maxineoi-coasolidari         Siret         47      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
42. Sistan desec. Buzoel-
sud-canale                  Buzau          50      01.10.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
43. Desecare GaCd-Rupes         Tirnave        51      01.07.1975   31.12.1975  31.12.1975
44. Inxdig. Homrodul lare       Tiroave        53      25.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
45. Desec. Birsa-Vulcaoita,
dig                         Birsa          55      01.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
46. Ixdig., regulariz.,
desecare riul Negru         Olt            65      01.01.1976  30.06.1976   30.09.1976
47. Sisten indig., desecare,
irig. Nina-De0j-coooli-
dare nal                    Samos          68      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.03.1976
48. Desecari si reprofilari
in zona vaii Hajdate        Soaes         70       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
49. Desec. Bistrat-Nedeia-
Jiu-cmwsolidari              Jiu           80      01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.06.1976
50. Desec. twrta-Listeava       Jiu           81       01.10.1975   30.06.1976   31.03.1977
51. Desec. hirsani-Nisipuri     Jlu           82       01.10.1975  31.03.1976   30.12.1976
52. Indig. Potopriastoaca                     94       01.10.1975  31.12.1976   31.12.1975
BEST COPY AVAILMLE



- 25 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 9
item No. iD
Annex I to     Date     Scheduled      Actual
Type of Work            River  Supplemotal   Woric    Comletzon    Ccp41etio
and IlcatioD            Basin  Latter No. 1  Started      Dste          Date
(1)                             (3)        (4)          15)          (6)
53. Sistme bidomlior-
tiv Ialomita-cmale         lalamta      97       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.12.1976
54. Indig., deaec. T. Vladimi-
rescu-Braniste             siret        105      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
55. Desecare (dligeci          Siret       106       16.08.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
56. Desec. zoa tartinesti-
irdas                     Mures        114      01.10.1975  30.06.1976  3D.06.1976
57. Indig., desec., regulari-
zare in depresiioea Ra-
ctunerb ean-Ciuc           Olt          116      19.07.1975  30.06.1976  3D.06.1976
58. Desec. Buciimeni-fbn-
deni                       Arges        133      01.11.1975  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
59. Desec.   d-Bkucresti       Dirbovits   L34       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
6D. Desec. Cosereni-Barba-
tescu                      Ialoimta    135       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
61. Desez. Ciocirlia-Girbovi-
Urziceni                   lalonita    136       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
62. Desec. Gostinlu-Gresa-     Arges-
Arges                      Dunare       141      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
63. Desec. Pietrosani-
Arsache                    Dunare       142      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
64. ILdig., dese. regulariz.
Vales de Jos-Oka-,Orai     bures        149      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
65. Desecr Piatra sat Greci    Olt         166       01.10.1975  31.12.1975
66. Desec. Cradinari-Plesoiu    Arges      167       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  31.03.1976
67. Desec. Bobicesti-Leotesti   Arges      172       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  30.06.1976
68. Des. Rusanesti-Brastcovat    Olt       172      01.01.197b  31.03.1976  30.06.1976
69. Desec. Cricov-rabova-
Ciorani                    Prabova      181      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.09.1976
70. Des. Dragaoesri-Hatcarau    Prabova    182       01.08.1975  31.03.1976  31.12.1975
71. Dese. Urlati-Alvesti       Prabova     183      01.01.1976  31.06.1976  30.06.1976
72. Indig. desec. Albesti-Ur-
lati si regulariz. Cring-
Nucet                      Prabova      185      01.01.1976  31.06.1976  31.09.1976
73. Dese-. Dbrava-Ciupe1ni-
ta-Drwanesti-vitn8u        Prabova      195      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.09.1976
74. Desec. Sirna-Tinosu        Prabova     196      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
75. Desec. Rif.-8arcanesti     Prabova     197      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
76. Desec. Albesti-Ciorani     Prabova     198      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
7. Indig. si desec. Vales Hir-
tibaciu                    Olt         206       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
78. Dbsec. inb.b.Visa          Olt         219       01.19.1975  31.06 ...1976 30.12.1976
79. Desec. Sura Mica Sibin     Cibin       220       01.09.1975  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
80. Inaig. des. RecasrChizatau  lhuin      225       01.08.1975  30.06.1975  30.06.1976
81. rawA-mures-ctmpjet.
desec.                     twres       226       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
82. xi g., desecare Pbgoois    Timis       227       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  3U.06.1976
83. Q3ecea-Jimbolia-cauplet.
desec.                     Timis       228       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.03.1976
BEST COPY AVAIUBLE



- 26 -                                   ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 9
item o. in
Anne  1 to      Date       cedued        Actual
wpe of Work              River  Supplwatal    Work         CaWletiua    CoWletiu
and Location             Basin  letter No. 1  Started        Date          Date
(1)                   (2)        (3)         (4)          (5)           (6)
84. Indig., desec. Mivis-
Cbudia                     Mures        230       01.01.1976   30.09.1976   30.09.1976
85. Indig., desec.rful Glavita  Tim.         231       01.0B.1975   30.06.1976   30.06.1976
86. Indig., desec. cernabora-
Timisira                   Timis        232       01.08.1975  30.11.1975   30.lL.1975
87.  Indig. Caani-Dragasti   Dunare          235       01.01.1976  30.06.i976  30.06.1976
88. Indig., desec. Bitias-
Costei                     Timis        238       01.01.1976  30.0b.1976  31.03.1976
89. Desec. Birlad zma Vaslui  Prut           250       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
90. Regulariz., desec. aval
Solesti                    Prut         251       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
91. Indig., desec. Calieni-
Nanesti                    Siret        253       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
Flood Protection Works
92. Regulariz. Valea Prisaca si
Nan la Malureoi            Arges           1      01.01.197b  30.06.1976  31.03.1976
93. Regulariz. Leordani-ibars
waxnu1ui                   Arges          2       01.01.1976  30.06.1975   30.06.1976
94. Regulariz. Vales Voineasa
la Glizbocata              Arges          3       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
95. Begulariz. si aparsre Vales
Mbre la Stefanesti         arges          4       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
96. Acumulare Stolnici-canale  Arges           5       25.08.1975  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
97. Adcut. Stefaoesti-leordeoi Arges           6       25.08.1975  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
98. Aparare de inundatii Rucar Dinmbvits       8       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
99. Regulariz. Arges iDtre
Bascov si Pitesti          Arges          9       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
100. Regulariz. Valea Poienari-
huscel                     Arges         10       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
101. Acumul. Vilcele-dig si
baraj                      Dinbovita     12       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
102. Acumal. Pecineagu pe riul
Dimbovita                  Dinbovita     13       15.07.1975  30.03.1976  3U.06.1976
103. Regulariz. vaii Soiumus ors
Lipwa                      Mures         34       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
104. Cbosolidare nal Mures      Mures         32       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
105. Cxxsolid. mal  hures la
Semlac                     Mures         33       01.01.1976  30.06.1976   30.06.1976
106. Regulariz. Cricau-Craiva-
Pibru                      Mures         36       01.10.1975  31.03.1976  31.12.1975
107. Regulariz. IgiR-Telna-
Bucerdea                   Mures         37       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
108. Regularizfiu Ampoi dig
aparare                    Mires         38       01.10.1975  31.03.1976  30.12.1976
109. Peg. iodig. riu hwes la
rFra Murs                  Mures         39       01.10.1975  30.05.1976  30.05.1976
REST COPY AVAIRI r



- 27BEST COPY AVAILUBLE
-27  -                       ~~~AiNE=  7
Page 5 of 9
Iten No. in
Armez I to     Date      Scbedulea      Actual
Type of Work             River  Supplemetal   Work        Cbmpetiao    Completion
and location             bsin  Letter No. L  Started        Date         Date
(1)                   (2)        (3)        (4)          (5)          (6)
110. Acuml. Siriu pe riul
-uzau                      Buzau        42       01.10.1975  31.03.1976  31.03.1976
111. Regulariz. riu Buzau
zoca Nisipurn-Faurei       Buzau        44       15.08.1975  31.03.1976  31.06.1976
112. Regulariz. rlu Buzau       Buzau        44       15.08.1975   31.03.1976  31.03.1976
113. Aduct. zacala riu Buzau-
1ircea Voda                Buzau        45       01.09.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
114. AcUwul. Sacele pe riul
Tirluog baraj              Olt           52      01.10.1975   31.03.1976  31.03.1976
115. Regulariz. riu Birsa-
Hslchiu si Bod-dig         Olt          54       01.Ul.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
116. Cxsolid. mab riu Timis
la Diubul Morii           Prabova       56       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
117. Acwuulare Valea Uzului    Prabova       57       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  31.03.1976
118. Regulariz. riu Tazlau la
Frumssa-Balcani            Siret        58       01.01.1976   30.Ob.1976  30.06.1976
119. Aparere mal Trotus la
Urecbesti                  Siret        59       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.12.1976
120. Aparare mal riu Trotus
la Gura Vaii              Siret         60       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
* t   121. Regulariz. riu Aries
la Toada                  Sa,es         69       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
122. Baraj koldovenesti        Bars          76       Ol.Ol.L976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
123. Aparare inpotriva
irumdatiilor a Mhicip.
Dej-aparare mal            Sores        77       01.01.1976  30.0b.1976  30.12.1976
124. Acumilare Gilau           Barns         78       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
125. Aduct. zonala Vrani-
lertof-Wrcina-caoale       Timis        79       01.10.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
126. Acumul. si aduct. zooala
pentru irig. 2000 ba perin.
bratei-Habeni-Nucet        Dimrbovita    87      01.01.1976  30.G6.1976  30.06.1976
127. Acmml. Puioaesa-baraj     Dinbovita    88        15.07.1975  30.03.1976  30.09.1976
~ , -128. Acumulare Bunget 1         Dimbovita    89       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
129. Acumulare Bunget 2        Dindovita    90        01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
130. Aduct. si acunulare zooala
irig. perim. Bratesti-
Baleni-Marcesti            Dimbovita    91       01.10.1975  31.12.1976  31.12.1975
131. Aructiune Vacaresti-
Nucet                      Dinbovita    92       01.01.1976  30.06.1975  30.12.1976
132. Amenaj. torenti Mnesmc
si Costescu la aRCU       Diubovits    93        01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
133. Regulariz. riu Piscov in
zona Bucsani-Ainca         Ialunita     95       01.01.1976   30.06.197b  30.09.1976
134. Begulariz. vaii Mibai la
Voinesti                   Dinbovita    96       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
135. Regulariz. Gilort la
Novaci                     Jiu         100       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
136. RB ulariz. hAadia
Seaca la 1,. Jiu          Jiu          101       01.10.1975   31.12.1975  31.12.1975



-28-                                    ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 9
Item No. in
knne  1 to     Date      Scheduled      Actual
Type of Work             River  Supplemotal   Wor-K       Omipletioo    Omipletino
and Location             Basin  Letter No. I  Started       Date         Date
(1)                   (2)        (3)        (4)          (5)           (6)
137. Regulariz. Valea Jiu la
lasi-Dragutesti           JiU          102       01.10.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
138. Jin Hijlsdi-SubbaZin
Amradis Seaca-rttetesti  Jiu            103      01.01.1976  31.03.1976  31.0b.1976
139. Coosolid. nal sting Siret
la Holdoveoii de Jos       Siret       109       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
140. Regulariz. Valea Malina
1a HoViLeni                Siret       110       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.0b.1976
141. Regulariz., indig. Jiu
superior                   Jiu          111      01.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
142. Regulariz. riU Mures al
sting la Deva              hireS        11Z      15.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
143. Indig. si regulariz. umres
zona iknvrod-Seoagiu        Mbres      115       15.10.1975  31.03.1976  31.06.1976
144. Regulariz. riu Tirnm
Hare la (owrbeiul Secuesec Tiroava      117      06.10.1975  31.03.1976  30.06.1976
145. Regulariz. piriu Varge in
COiorben1U  Secuiesc       Tiroava      118      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
146. Regulariz., indiguire piriu                                                                     W
Swiuleu iD oras Miercures 
Ciuc                       Olt         119       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976            co3
147. Regulariz. piriu PitOd in
zooa orasului Miercurea-
Ciuc                       Olt          12D      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
148. Regulariz. pirinu Beehia
in orasul Gbeorghieni     Olt          L21       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
149. Regjlariz. piriu Ptrei
comoma Remetea             Olt          122      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976            _
150. Regulariz. pirin Mitacrs
zona Tusnad-sat           Olt          123       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
151. Ahm:lare Plopi pe riul
Bablui                     Prut        124       01.10.1975   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
152. Acumulare Tansa           Siret        125       01.10.1975  31.03.1976  31.03.1976
153. Aductiuoe Tansa           Siret        126       01.10.1975  31.03.1976   31.12.1975           m
154. Aparare de imDd. orasul
Pascaoi                    Siret       127       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
155. Regulariz. oiriu
Vamasioaa, la Iasi         Prut        128       01.10.1975  31.12.1976  31.12.1975
156. Coosolid. mal riu Ialomita
la Lipia                   lalomita    131       01.08.1975  31.12.1976  31.12.1975
157. Cbosolid. ml riu Arges
la CQrcawi                Arges        132       01.08.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
158. Gsoolid. =al riu
Ialicnta la Dricu          Ialooita    137       01.01.1976  30.0b.1976  30.06.1976
15. RegulAri. riu Tiroava
la Sighisosra             Tiravana     146       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
160. Regulariz. rin Tirnava
Mare aval Sigbisora        Tirnava     147       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
161. ltdig. regulariz. riu
Mures la Tg. Mures         HureS        150      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976



-29                 BEST COPY AVAIUBLE
ANlEX 7
Page 7 of 9
ite NO. iD
kn      1 to   Date       bduled       Actul
I)Fj of Wm              River  Supplmwtl W=             CopleDtia   Coiti >
am_Lo__ti_              Basit  letter No. 1  Stated       Llate        Date
(1)                  (2)        (3)        (4)          (5)          (6)
162. Indig. regulariz. riu
Tirawa Mica la Tirwuaei  Timam         151      01.10.1975  31.03.1976  31.12.1975
163. Regulariz. piriu Nosita   Cera        152      01.01.976  31.03.1976  30.12.1976
164. Ahictiune zanula Petesti   Dumare     159      01.01.1976  31.03.197b  31.06.1976
165. Regulariz. riu Moldca
la Ibpilati               Siret       160       01.01.1976  31.0b.1976  30.12.1976
166. Aparare il riu Bistrita la
Pruozeni Costisa          Siret       161       01.01.1976  31.06.1976  31.06.1976
167. Regulariz. piriu
Geru.rtelui               Siret        162      01.01.1976  31.0b.197t  31.03.1976
168. Regularizare piriu
Gengea                                 163      01.01.1976  31.06.1976  31.03.1976
169. Regulariz. Olt la Babiciu
Rusaoesti-Jieni           Olt         164       C1.01.1976  30.06.197b  31.03.1976
170. Begulariz. piriu Oltisor   Olt        165      01.10.1975  31.12.1976  31.12.1975
171. Aculare Feapcea  Mica
la Scornicesti            Olt         173       15.10.1975   31.12.1975  31.12.1975
172. Sistem bidrotetmic
Pbova Teleajen            Prabova     187       01. 10.1975  31.12.1976  31.12.1975
173. Regulariz Gbiojdenca      Buzu        199      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.09.1976
174. Regulariz.  ag,urele      Prabova     200      OL.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.09.1976
175. Regulariz. Plaietu        Prabova     201      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.09.1976
176. Aparare sal Cricovul
Sarat 18 Cioceni          Prabova     202       01.09.1975  31.03.1976  31.09.1976
177. Aparare us Cricova1
Sarat la Cioraoii ce Jos   Prabova    203       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
178. Aparare ual Cricovul Sarat
la Albesti-Ebleolqgu      Prahoua     204      01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
179. Acwumlare Gura Riuliu pe
riul Cibin                Olt         209       01.01.1976  30.0b.1976  30.12.1976
180. Regulariz., indigpire niu
Tirawva Here aval poa
DN14 Is MIeias            Tirmava     210       01.10.1975  31.03.1976  31.09.1976
181. Regulariz.. indiguire riu
Tirnava Here la Duhmraveni Tirnava    211       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  31.09.1976
182. Regulariz. ru Tirnm
MaTe la Medias            Tirnava     212       15.07.1975  31.03.1975  30.03.1977
183. Begulariz. Tirnava Mare-
Valesa Momei la HeMias    Tirnava     213       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.03.1976
184. Regulariz. piriu
Hiicibaciu in zoD oras
Agpita aval pod abator    lirmnava    214       01.09.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
185. Regulariz. piriu Ruscior
la Sibiu                  Olt         215       01.01.1976  31.06.1976  30.12.1976
186. Regulariz. Iecov si V.
Mare la Porumbacu         Olt         216       01.07.1975  31.03.1976  31.03.1976
187. Acumul. Ighis zona Copsa
kica                     MHres        217       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
188. Regulariz. pini Salcis
la Buzias                 Tisin       229       15.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975



30 -                                    ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 9
Iten No. in
Arnmx 1 to      Date      Scheduled       Actual
Iype of Work              River  SupplemeI tal   Wohb       CoqpLetion    CoGpletium
and loratico              Basin  Letter No. I  Started        Date          Date
(1)                    (2)        (3)         (4)          -5T6)
189. Regulariz. si indig. Olt
la Ialaz                    Olt          236       15.07.1975   31.12.1976  31.12.1975
190. Cobmlet. si consolid. baraj
Crirgeni                    D4nare       237       25.07.1975   31.12.1975  31.12.1975
191. Aduct. zooala Riurewi-
Mibaiesti                   Olt          239       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.09.1976
192. Ccrectie torenti V.
Serbanescu la Stoiceni      Olt          240       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.03.1976
193. Dig de aparare Dragaoani   Olt           241       01.09.1975   31.12.1975  31.12.1975
194. Dig aparare Iooesti-
Piscalia                    Olt          242       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  31.03.1976
195. Regulariz. riu Olanesti la
feram  PCR Vladesti         Olt          243       01.09.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
196. Acunulare Cazameati         Prut         244       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.09.1976
197. ACSIUlare Miojesti          Prut         245       01.01.107b  30.06.1976   31.06.1976
198. Acumlare Perescniv          Prut         246       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  31.05.1976
199. Acamulare Racova-Phqgesti   Prut         247       01.01.1976  31.03.1976   31.03.1976
200. Acuxmlare Codaesti         PNut          248       01.01. 197b  31.03.1976   31.06.1976
201. Acumul. Tacuta-Codaesti  Ptut            249       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  31.0b ..1976
202. Reg. riu Govora la Buletea  Olt          252       01.UI. 1976   30.06.1976   3D.06.1976
203. fet. riu siret La AMjudul
Vechi                       Siret        257       Ol.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.12.197b
EF1MS1N C(lNTL WRS
204. CES in b.b. Vilcea          Arges         14       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.09.1976
205. CES b.b. Valea Dragtaiciu   Arges         15       01.01.1976   31.05.1976   31.05.1976
2D6. CES b.h. Valea msrului-
Budeasa canale              Arges         16       01.01.1976   31.05.1976   31.05.1976
207. CES b.h. Ciroici rpt.
Circinov canale             Arges         17       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.06.1976
218. CES b.h. Izvoraoi-canale    Arges         18       01.01.1976   31.03.1976  30.06.1976
209. CES b.b. Stefanesti-canale  Arges         19       01.01.1976   31.03.1976   30.06.1976
210. CE b.o. Valui-canale        Arges         20       01.01.1976   31.03.1976   30.09.1976
211. CES b.h. Vranesti           Arges         21       25.08.1975   31.03.1976   31.03.1976
212. CES b.h. Calisesti          Arges         22       25.00.1975   31.03.1976  30.09.1976
213. CSS b.b. Circiv-baraj       Arges         23       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.06.1976
214. MS b.h. Budeasa             Arges         24       01.01.1976   31.03.1976  30.06.1976
215. CES b.b.V. karului-canale  Arges          25       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
216. CES bd.n. Tulburea-Ceresti--
canale                      Arges         26       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  40.0b.1976
217. CES b.D. Riuaor-Canale      Arges         27       01.01.1976   30.06.1976   30.12.1976
218. CES b.b. Dragb-ciu          Arges         28       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
219. C(S b.b.Lerr :i-drum        Arges         29       01.01.1976   30.09.1976  30.12.1976
22D. CES b.b. Riamico-Sarat-
canale                      Siret         41       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
221. CES si reg. V. Dumiresti
la Albesti                 Arges          30       01.01.1976  30.06.1976   30.06.1976
222. ces apa Neegra-Irumuselu    Birlad        61       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  30.06.1976



ANNEX 7
31 -                                 Page 9 of 9
Itemito. in
Annex I to      Date      Scheduled      Actual
Type of Work              River  Supplemental   Work       CbQpletion   Coupletioa
and Location             Basin   Letter No. 1  Started       Date          Date
(1)                   (2)        (3)         (4)          (5)           (6)
223. CES Racatau II             Siret         62       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
224. CES Zeletin U              Birlad        63       01.01.1976   30.0b.1976  30.06.1976
225. CEB Zeletin I              Birlad        64       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.06.1976
226. CES V. hare-subbaaz.
Sard-Nadasel               Sames          71      01.10.1975  31.12.1975  30.12.1976
227. CES V. Borsei-subbaz.
Ebndaruri-Doroa            Somes          72      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
228. CE V. Borsei-rpt. Bkrsei-
subbaz. Cristorel-nivelari  Soms          73      01.10.1975  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
229. CES V. Borsei-subbaz.
Seimeni-Budei-nivelari     Scs            74      01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
230. CES V. Racilor-subbaz.
inferior Si .ijlociu-
nivelari                   Somes          75      01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.09.1976
231. CES Valea Boului           Jiu           98       01.09.1976  31.12.1975  30.09.1976
232. CES Jiul mijlociu          Jiu           99       01.01.1976   30.06.1976  30.12.1976
233. CES Anaradia de Mijloc     Jiu          104       01.01.1976   30.09.1976  30.12.1976
234. CES Covurlui               Siret        107       01.01.1976  30.03.1976  30.06.1976
235. CES b.b. Valea Oarba       Siret        108       01.01.1976   30.09.1976  3U.06.1976
2^36. CES GeaiuYEpiB1npoto      mumreg       113       01.10.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
237. CES b. h. Comlod           tmres        148       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
238. CES Busoita-periuetrul I   Dunare      14        01.01.1976  31.03.1976   31.03.1976
239. CES Husnoita-perinetzul II  Dunare      155       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  31.03.1976
240. CES Ostrovul Carbulim-dig  Dunare       156       01.01.1976   31.03.1976   31.03.1976
241. CES Pestesas-Poiana
H-ijarca                   JD            157      01.01.1976  31.03.1976  31.03.1976
242. CES Ceptura-Rotari         Prabovs      177       01.01.1976   30.0b.1976   30.06.1976
2J. CSS Seciu-Pleasa-
Cnitorani                  Prabova       L78      01.08.975  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
244. CES Scheianca              Prabova      179       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
245. CES Valea Trandafirilor    Ialcmita     18U       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
246. Ckb Nicovani-Valea Neagra  Prabova      191       01.US.1975  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
247. CES Cringr-i:et            Prabova      192       01.08.1975  30.06.1976  30.12.1976
248. C* Semaoi-Urloi            Prabova      193       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.03.1976
249. CES Budureasa              Pranova      194       01.01.1976  30.09.1976  30.06.1976
250. CSS b.b. Sommuzl Hare      Sixet        205       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.06.1976
251. CES b.b. Ilirtibaciu       Olt          218       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.09.1976
252. CES b.b. PeciDeaga-
lbrcosia                   Dumare        224      01.01.1976  31.03.1976  30.06.1976
253. CES Odobeoti-Cotesti       Siret        254       30.07.1975  30.09.1975  30.06.1976
254. Balastiera Topoloveni      Arges         11       G1.06.1975  30.09.1976  30.12.1976
255. Balastiera Simuleasa       Buzau         40       01.01.1976  31.03.1976  30.09.1976
256. Balastiera Calafat                       86       01.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
257. Poligon dioactic Braoesti  DiWhovita    130       01.08.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
258. Balastiera Stoenesti       Olt          170       01.07.1975  31.12.1975  31.12.1975
259. Balastiera Pufesti         Siret        256       01.01.1976  30.06.1976  30.12.1976



OIRD 1l2SOIPCRI
HUNGARY    r.'          \U S 5 N
ROMANIA
)\aE  t                                                BULGARIA
Sf  S    U C E AVA      2                                          ROMANIA
FLOOD RECOVERY  PROJECT
(Loop 1169-ROU
AUTOMATIC SYSTEM FOR HYDROMETEOROLOGICAL
FLOOD WtARNING
KIA S I
VAASLUI
BACAU
mm" __1 Sme-
i  Rol. Role1 SIWIIOWI                                                         N
*   CIh stoe.ll  Sin. i   d                                                             lJ
Domlfl      hal.   Ra  st asis                                 .
[]Ca-i. Mua.l.ll Stll..s _ Roil. Rolq             __,
A fd L M                                           VRANCEA               GAL ATI    O    !    3    1   *1 
Dmo, ass a,4"                                        .                                         //I'O          ; i    4
.S'u Roe hi1..                                                       ,0,f,  .                     I >                4
8,,.,s,,,,,,. ,R,,,.,      -/e3 \                 rocsAm
N           a                  ~~~BUZAUrJ*7
ARGES 57
,                                            1                   w()     X)BRAILA
PRAHOVA                                  9Js.
I   %         O~~ThmUT        *POESTi               
1'DIMBOUITA                                             ALOMTA                          oHln
*SLCBMIA
BUCHlAREST'
k~~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4-.   F @ttoti
*                             ~~~~CALARASI
//t~~   ciiqqaiii^ ~  o
--_-                    ( ~~~~~~~GI UR G IU  "".
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h .':r _l."  w   D olftn.ytZI
-~  -                          1          ~B U L G A R I A                                               \           2



-                                                                         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD 1?249PCP
R OMANIA
Al~~~~~~~~~ FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
MAR                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATION, DRAINAGE AND
V,  RAMURE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             E$ ~~~~~~~FLOOD PROTF-OTION WORKS
T R I T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                                *IhQt,hOi
SAU6                            SAUD~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                              lUiAOWU
;ALX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LO OVCO ,Of
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*CO  ''O  GO
tOALVUOOO 10 ICTSM IN...
E   MfrA  T                                            E ;GJTA T                                         W., ,.S I A   AITH.TUONtASSOTS
R-r H                            - TR    OV_IA    AA~                                                                  1t,to,o,
'S                                                                                                                                                                     VtuoT       tIARA D.
-  IIETI,IS aL  O,SI
~~~~~~~~~~~~L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






