CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1169 RO
Loan Agreement
(Flood Recovery Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1169 RO
Loan Agreement
(Flood Recovery Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist Republic of
Romania;
(b)   "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade,
established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c)   "DIFCA" means the Department of Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania;
(d)   "NWC" means the National Water Council of Romania;
(e)   "CELIF" means the Central for the Exploitation of Land Reclamation
Works, established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the Council of Ministers of
Romania;
(f)   "DGPD" means the Directorate General of Planning and Development
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania;
(g)   "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;


﻿4
(h)   "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved by Decree
No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania, approved by Law No. 15
of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(i)   "BAFI-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(j)   "Investment Enterprise" means a farm   enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a BAFI-loan; and
(k)   "Investment Project" means a project for any of the investments
included in Part C of the Project which is to be carried out by an Investment
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a BAFI-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services selected by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower and required for Part A or Part
B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and on account of
disbursements made by the Borrower, under BAFI-loan agreements signed before
May 10, 1977 (or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree), for
technically feasible and financially viable Investment Projects included in Part C
of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may designate the Foreign Trade Bank as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods and for the carrying out of works or services
(other than consultants' services) for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed


﻿5
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices as follows:
(a)   the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the Project, including
the procurement of the goods and services required therefor;
(b)   the authorized design institutes of Romania shall provide the general
engineering services required for the Project;
(c)   DIFCA shall:
(i)        make suitable arrangements for the procurement of the
goods and services required for Part A of the Project;
(ii)       make timely arrangements with the authorized design
institutes of Romania for the supply of the general


﻿6
engineering services required for Part A of the Project,
and with the appropriate construction organizations of
Romania as required for the civil works and the
installations included in Part A of the Project;
(iii)       have overall responsibility for the coordination of the
implementation of Part A of the Project and for the
activities of the other departments and agencies of
Romania related thereto; and
(iv)        closely  cooperate  with  NWC    as required   for the
implementation of Part A of the Project;
(d) NWC shall:
(i)         make suitable arrangements for the procurement of the
goods and services required for Part B of the Project;
(ii)        make timely arrangements with the authorized design
institutes of Romania for the supply of the general
engineering services required for Part B of the Project, and
with the appropriate construction organizations of
Romania as required for the civil works and the
installations included in Part B of the Project; and
(iii)       have overall responsibility for the coordination of the
implementation of Part B of the Project and for the
activities of the other departments and agencies of
Romania related thereto; and
(e)   DGPD shall:
(i)         make suitable arrangements for the procurement of the
goods and services required for the Investment Projects
under Part C of the Project; and
(ii)        have overall responsibility for the coordination of the
implementation of the Investment Projects and for the
activities of the other departments and     agencies of
Romania related thereto.
Section 3.02. (a) For each of the Investment Projects included in Part C
of the Project the Borrower shall make a BAFI-loan to the Investment Enterprise


﻿7
that is to carry out such Investment Project, for all or part of the cost of such
Investment Project net of interest and other charges on the BAFI-loan.
(b)   Each BAFI-loan shall bear interest at a rate which shall be equal to
the interest rate then charged by the Borrower in respect of loans for the same
type of investments, provided, however, that the first mentioned rate shall not
be less than three percent (3%) per annum; BAFI-loans shall be repaid over such
period, after such grace period, as shall be consistent with the expected
implementation period and yields of such Investment Project and the repayment
capacity of the Investment Enterprise.
(c)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each BAFI-loan will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall have under
Romanian legislation, or shall obtain by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right of the Borrower to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
agricultural, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (I) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the BAFI-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them   and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) obtain all such information
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the BAFI-loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to be made for
the insurance of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿8
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order to realize
the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary that:
(a)   the irrigation, drainage and flood control works rehabilitated under
Part A of the Project will be operated and maintained by CELIF, the flood warning
system established under Part B of the Project will be operated and maintained
by NWC and all necessary repairs and renewals of such works and system will
be made from time to time, all in accordance with appropriate agricultural,
meteorological, hydrological, administrative and engineering practices; and
(b)   the Investment Enterprises will be supplied with agricultural technical
and advisory services, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural financing and
marketing facilities, all as required to make optimal productive use of the
investments made under Part C of the Project.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under the laws of
Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial standards and
practices and in accordance with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.


﻿9
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to create liens as
security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a lien shall be
created on any of the Borrower's assets as security for any debt, the Borrower
undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall
create the lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank, and (ii)
if the lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carrying out the
provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take such measures as shall be
necessary according to the State Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order
to achieve the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end:
(a)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the request
of either party exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, the performance
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan, and, until the Closing Date, the Borrower shall enable
the Bank's representatives to exchange views with representatives of DIFCA, CELIF,
NWC, DGPD, the Investment Enterprises and the other agencies concerned of
Romania with regard to their respective activities under the Project;
(b)   the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
any BAFI-loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish


﻿10
to the Bank within forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on
the progress of the Project during such quarter;
(c)   the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit and
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan,
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and the records and
documents relating to the Project of DIFCA, NWC, DGPD, the Investment
Enterprises and the other departments or agencies of Romania responsible for the
Project or any part thereof;
(d)   the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later than five months
after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the completion
of the Project certified copies of its records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section recording the cost of the Project, for such fiscal year submitted to an
independent audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the before-mentioned financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(e)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time furnish to each
other such additional information as the other party shall reasonably request with
regard to the progress of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the BAFI-loans, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the
operations, resources and expenditures of DIFCA, CELIF, NWC, DGPD and the
Investment Enterprises, the benefits derived from the Project and the general status
of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance
of the service thereof or the performance by either party of its obligations undel
the Loan Agreement.


﻿0                                 11
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date January 2, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Telex No.:
AGROBANK
11622
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA
SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By /s/ Corneliu Bogdan
Authorized Representative


﻿-0                                            13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and                  7,200,000          100% of foreign
spare parts                                       expenditures and
for Part A of                                      100% of local
of the Project                                    expenditures ex-
factory
(2)   Equipment for                  1,800,000          100% of foreign
Part B of the                                     expenditures and
Project                                            100% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(3)   Disbursements under           30,000,000          30% of amounts
BAFI-loans                                        disbursed by the
Borrower
(4)   Unallocated                    1,000,000
TOTAL        40,00000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expendituies for goods or
services supplied from the territory and in the currency of any country other than
Romania; and


﻿14
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
Romania and for goods and services supplied from the territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages applicable to Categories (1) and (2) have been
calculated in compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect
the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item included in Categories
(1) and (2) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawal shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   disbursements made before August 1, 1975, under BAFI-loans, and
other expenditures incurred prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) any BAFI-loan for an Investment Project whose estimated aggregate
cost shall exceed the equivalent of Lei 10,000,000 unless the Bank shall have agreed
to such BAFI-loan; when submitting such BAFI-loan to the Bank for its agreement,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, in such
form and containing such information as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree,
and the proposed terms and conditions of the BAFI-loan, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   The amount allocated to, and the disbursement percentage applicable to,
Category (3) have been calculated to realize the intention of the Bank and the
Borrower that such amount will represent the Bank's financial contribution towards
a BAFI-loan program of $100,000,000 equivalent for on-farm investments. To that
end, the Bank and the Borrower agree that no withdrawal shall be made from
the Loan Account in respect of any BAFI-loan which is presented to the Bank
for disbursement, after the aggregate of all BAFI-loans already so presented to
the Bank has reached the equivalent of $100,000,000.
6.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be accompanied
by a certificate issued by the Borrower by which the Borrower certifies that the
withdrawal is requested on account of an expenditure required for Part A or Part
B of the Project, or on account of a disbursement made under a BAFI-loan for
an Investment Project, and that the expenditure or the Investment Project, as the


﻿15
case may be, has been approved by the authority competent to give such approval
under Romanian law; the certificate shall be in a form agreed upon between the
Bank and the Borrower.
7.   Notwithstanding the allocation of any amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any
Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
8.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item required for Part A or Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
0


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A.     Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Control
Rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and flood control works that were
damaged as a result of the floods that occurred in mid-1975, at
locations selected by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Part B.     Flood Warning System
Improvement of Romania's existing hydrological data system by
establishing an automated flood warning system, including inter alia
the installation of remote sensing stations to record rainfall,
temperatures and river flows and facilities to transmit and analyze the
data so recorded.
Part C     Agricultural Credit
Technically feasible and financially viable investments of farm
enterprises for crop or livestock production which, as a result of the
floods, landslides, rainstorms or hail experienced in mid-1975, suffered
losses in excess of 20% of their respective annual production planned
for 1975.
The Project is to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1980                                        685,000
March 1, 1981                                            715,000
September 1, 1981                                        745,000
March 1, 1982                                            775,000
September 1, 1982                                        810,000
March 1, 1983                                            840,000
September 1, 1983                                        880,000
March 1, 1984                                            915,000
September 1, 1984                                        955,000
March 1, 1985                                            995,000
September 1, 1985                                       1,035,000
March 1, 1986                                           1,080,000
September 1, 1986                                       1,125,000
March 1, 1987                                           1,175,000
September 1, 1987                                       1,225,000
March 1, 1988                                           1,275,000
September 1, 1988                                       1,330,000
March 1, 1989                                           1,390,000
September 1, 1989                                       1,450,000
March 1, 1990                                           1,510,000
September 1, 1990                                       1,570,000
March 1, 1991                                           1,640,000
September 1, 1991                                       1,710,000
March 1, 1992                                           1,780,000
September 1, 1992                                       1,855,000
March 1, 1993                                           1,935,000
September 1, 1993                                      2,020,000
March 1, 1994                                           2,105,000
September 1, 1994                                      2,195,000
March 1, 1995                                           2,280,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿18
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                         7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8-1/2%


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Grouping of bids. Bid invitations for equipment and spare parts shall,
whenever feasible, be grouped together so that each order shall consist of all such
items to be procured during a twelve-months period.
2.    Large contracts for Part A of the Project estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or more (regardless of whether the goods to be supplied under such
contracts are manufactured in Romania) shall be awarded under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.    Small contracts for Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent shall be awarded under the following procedures:
(a)   contracts for items which   at the time of bid invitation are
manufactured in Romania shall be awarded under Romanian procedures; and
(b)   contracts for items which at the time of bid invitation are not
manufactured in Romania shall, after solicitation of bids from suppliers from at
least three countries other than Romania on the basis of bid invitations consistent
with the provisions of the Guidelines, be awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 4.3 through 4.10 of the Guidelines.
4.    Flood warning system. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Schedule, contracts for Part B of the Project shall, after solicitation of bids from
suppliers from Romania (if any) and at least three countries other than Romania
on the basis of bid invitations consistent with the provisions of the Guidelines,
be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 4.3 through 4.10 of
the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)


﻿20
price for imported goods or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Romania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Romania.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside Romania.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.


﻿21
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Romanian     foreign  trade enterprise
concerned, acting as representative of DIFCA, shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been evaluated, the foreign trade enterprise concerned
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the names
of the bidders and the respective amounts of their bids and the name of the bidder
to which the contract is intended to be awarded and the reasons for the intended
award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the foreign
trade enterprise concerned and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not without the Bank's
concurrence materially differ from those on which bids were a3ked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the foreign trade enterprise
concerned shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it


﻿22
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the foreign trade enterprise concerned and state
the reasons for such determination.


