                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003405



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-76770)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF USD400 MILLION


                                       TO

                                    UKRAINE

                                     FOR A

                ROADS AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                  May 28, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2014)

                                       Currency Unit = UAH
                                       1.00 = US$ 0.066397
                                      US$ 1.00 = UAH 15.06

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1- December 31


                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL   Adaptable Program Lending                ICR Implementation Completion Report
CIS   Commonwealth of                          IEG Independent Evaluation Group
      Independent States                       IFI     International Financial Institutions
CPS Country Partnership Strategy               IP      Implementation Progress
DC    Direct Contracting                       IRI     International Roughness Index
DO    Development Objective                    ISR Implementation Status Report
EBRD European Bank for                         NPV Net Present Value
Reconstruction and Development                 PAD Project Appraisal Document
EIRR Economic Internal Rate of Return          PIU Project Implementation Unit
ERR Economic Rate of Return                    PDO Project Development Objective
EU     European Union                          RSIP 2 Second Road and Safety Improvement
FIDIC International Federation of Consulting   Project
Engineers                                      SIL Specific Investment Loan
FM    Financial Management                     SWAP Sector Wide Approach
GDP Gross Domestic Product                     VAT Value-Added Tax
GOU Government of Ukraine                      WB World Bank
GRSF Global Road Safety Facility               WTO World Trade Organization
ICB International Competitive Bidding



                  Senior Global Practice Director: Pierre Guislain
                                Country Director: Qimiao Fan
                                Practice Manager: Juan Gaviria
                            Project Team Leader: Eric Lancelot
                               ICR Team Leader: Maria Claudia Pachon
                                                UKRAINE
                                   Roads and Safety Improvement Project

                                                        CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
   B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
   C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
   E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... iv
   H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ iv
   I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 32
       Lending ..................................................................................................................... 33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 51
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Roads and Safety
Country:                Ukraine                 Project Name:
                                                                          Improvement
Project ID:             P100580                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76770
ICR Date:               05/26/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 400.00M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 380.35M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 400.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 UKRAVTODOR
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/14/2006     Effectiveness:            09/03/2009         09/03/2009
                                                                                  07/19/2011
                                                                                  10/24/2012
Appraisal:            01/22/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  12/18/2013
                                                                                  09/29/2014
Approval:             04/07/2009     Mid-term Review:          07/06/2011         07/07/2011
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2012         11/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Transportation                                  1                    1
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              99                  99


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                46                  46
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 8                  8
Trade facilitation and market access                                  46                  46

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                           Martin Raiser
Practice
                           Juan Gaviria                         Peter D. Thomson
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Eric R. Lancelot                     Henry G. R. Kerali
ICR Team Leader:           Maria Claudia Pachon
ICR Primary Author:        Maria Claudia Pachon


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve the condition and quality of sections along
M-03 highway, and increase road safety.



                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was never revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target      Completion or
                                              documents)            Values      Target Years
                  Improvement in the riding quality along the section between Boryspil and Lubny
Indicator 1 :
                  of the M03 road
Value
quantitative or   IRI>5                      IRI<2              IRI<2           1.16
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 04/11/2009         07/19/2011      01/15/2015
Comments
                  With the restructuring the target changed from IRI<2 in 120 km of road to IRI<2
(incl. %
                  in 140 km of road. Indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increase in road safety towards EU level (fatalities per 10,000 vehicles)
Value
quantitative or   8                          6                  <8              1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 04/11/2009         07/19/2011      01/15/2015
Comments
(incl. %          The indicator as defined was achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduction of the number of crashes between Boryspil and Lubny
Value
(quantitative     248                        126                                10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 04/11/2009                         01/15/2015
Comments
                  The indicator value is on an annual (calendar year) basis. The indicator was
(incl. %
                  achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     The number of black spots treated through the project
Value                                                                          11 spots
(quantitative     0                          110                25             5 corridors (22.45
or Qualitative)                                                                km)
Date achieved     12/31/2007               04/11/2009          07/19/2011      12/31/2014
Comments          The revised indicator measures the reduction of black spots according to the
(incl. %          cumulative number ameliorated. Based on the revised target, the percentage of

                                                   iii
achievement)      achievement was 44%. In addition, 5 road corridors in Crimea were improved
                  for safety. Not achieved
Indicator 3 :     Length of the M03 road upgraded
Value
(quantitative     0                          120                   140            150.6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 04/11/2009            07/19/2011     12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The target was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Increase in the number of staff trained in road management and operations
Value
(quantitative     0                          100                   30             119
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 04/11/2009            07/19/2011     12/31/2014
Comments
                  The actual value was achieved, both in reference to the original target and the
(incl. %
                  revised target.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Launching of a pilot performance-based road contract
Value
(quantitative     0                          1                                    1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                 04/11/2009                           12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/10/2009           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     02/25/2010           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     11/24/2010           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   32.51
  4     06/29/2011           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   73.99
  5     02/13/2012           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                  159.97
  6     11/04/2012           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           254.43
  7     02/03/2013           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           281.31
  8     09/03/2013       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           317.28
  9     03/09/2014           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           345.82
 10     09/08/2014           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory           358.84


H. Restructuring (if any)



                                                   iv
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reassignment of resources
                                                     amongst components and
                                                     changes in the results
                                                     framework. Resources to
                                                     component 2 were reassigned to
                                                     component 1. No changes to the
                                                     PDO, but changes to the
                                                     intermediate outcome indicators
                                                     (targets)
                                                     The proposed changes are the
                                                     result of (i) lower than
                                                     estimated Road Rehabilitation
 07/19/2011       N        S      S          81.51   costs under project Component
                                                     1 and the resulting project
                                                     savings, and (ii) the lower than
                                                     expected interest from the
                                                     construction industry to execute
                                                     the road safety “black spot”
                                                     works under project Component
                                                     2 and the resulting inability of
                                                     the executing agency to fully
                                                     execute the relevant project
                                                     component. The proposed
                                                     changes would be first
                                                     restructuring of this project.
                                                     Extension of the closing date to
                                                     31-Dec-2013.
                                                     Completion of works in the
                                                     contracts awarded after the first
 10/24/2012       N        S      S         254.43
                                                     restructuring, did not progress
                                                     as expected. The timeline for
                                                     the implementation of these
                                                     contracts was optimistic.
                                                     Extension of the closing date to
                                                     30-Sept-2014.
                                                     Extension of the RSIP closing
                                                     date from December 31, 2013 to
                                                     September 30, 2014 was
                                                     required to allow for completion
 12/18/2013       N       MS    MS          332.65
                                                     of all contracts and full
                                                     achievement of the Project
                                                     Development Objectives.
                                                     Namely, the contract of 32 km
                                                     long rehabilitation and
                                                     upgrading contract on the M03

                                          v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     road under the Project’s first
                                                     component did not advance as
                                                     expected due to financial
                                                     solvency issues of the
                                                     contractor.
                                                     Extend the closing Extension of
                                                     the closing date to 30-Nov-
                                                     2014.
                                                     Required to allow the
 09/29/2014       N       S     MS          358.84   completion of all contracts, and
                                                     full achievements of PDO.
                                                     Finalize the execution of 37.7
                                                     km rehabilitation and upgrading
                                                     on contract M-03.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background. The global financial crisis of 2008- 2009 exposed the inherent
macroeconomic vulnerabilities in Ukraine and led to an economic crisis. In order to help
the recovery of its real sector that was hit hard by multiple external and domestic shocks,
Ukraine was required to improve its business environment, competition policy, and the
physical and institutional infrastructure supporting private investment. At the time of
appraisal, the country generated far more transport movements relative to its Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) than any other country in Europe due to its reliance on agriculture
and on heavy industries, in particular ferrous metals. Transport costs made up a
proportionally large part of the final price of many goods. Consequently, the transport
system had substantial potential to improve aggregate productivity and regional
competitiveness. As a result, the Government was pursuing public interventions to improve
transport system efficiency.
Road Sector. The existing road infrastructure had been relatively adequate during the 10-
year transition period, 1 but at the time of appraisal, the available quality and capacity was
hindering efficient movement of goods and people. The 1998 financial crisis exacerbated
the shortage of funds for maintaining and renewing transport infrastructure in Ukraine.
Some economically strategic sections of the network were not only in poor condition but
were also functioning at peak capacity due to steadily increasing commercial traffic; annual
passenger traffic had been growing an average of 11 percent per annum over the three
previous years. Furthermore, substantial portions of the core network still needed to be
upgraded to European technical and safety standards, notably the M-03 corridor.
Table 1: Ukraine’s State Roads Network and its Condition (2005)

    State Roads                  % Good          % Fair             % Poor             % Very poor
    Magistral                    63.8            24.9               8.3                3.0
    Regional                     57.6            27.4               10.2               4.7
    Total                        61.2            26.0               9.1                3.7
    Source: Ukravtodor. The table includes only state roads, which account for 16,244 km.
    There are also 148,528 km of local roads. Good = IRI<4.0m/km, Fair = 4.0<IRI<4.9,
    Poor = 5.0<IRI<5.9, Very poor = IRI>=6.0.

Inadequate technical and safety standards contributed to the high rates of road traffic
crashes in Ukraine—a rate that compared poorly with other countries in the region and in
Europe. The number of road traffic crashes in absolute terms had doubled between 2003



1
 2005 surveys showed that most of the state road network is still in reasonable condition: the International
Roughness Index (IRI) is usually less than about 5.00.

                                                     1
and 2009, and the costs were estimated to be between 1.5 and 3.5 percent of GDP 2, part
which was due to steadily increasing vehicle ownership and poor driver behavior. Deaths
per 10,000 registered vehicles was 8.0 in 2005 3 , similar to many Eastern European
countries such as the Russian Federation, but much higher than the average for European
Union (EU) countries (between 3 and 4 times higher in 2006).
Under the Government state program on development of motor roads of common usage
for 2007-2011, 4 technical and safety improvements of roads was representing the largest
share of investments. The Government strategy aimed to achieve the following: (a) provide
high-quality transport network and services that satisfy the country’s economic growth and
reduce the price of goods; (b) ensure citizens had access to quality transport services; (c)
raise domestic transport system competitiveness standards, allowing Ukraine to integrate
with Europe and participate in the World Trade Organization (WTO); and (d) improve
safety levels and stabilize transport system development. Implementing this strategy had
triggered a slate of reforms in Ukraine—many transport enterprises had been privatized,
and new regulatory agencies had been established.
Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2007,
developed in support of the Government state program, identified that to sustain growth
into the future, specifically, Ukraine would need to address three key challenges: (i)
improvement in competitiveness, (ii) reform of public finance and the public sector to
improve service delivery and make growth socially inclusive, and (iii) tackle weaknesses
in governance. In response to these challenges, the CPS proposed a two-pillar framework
of support. The first pillar aimed at improving Ukraine’s competitiveness through
investments in public sector infrastructure (in particular transport and energy efficiency).
Several investment lending operations were planned in the transport sector. First, a Road
Rehabilitation and Safety project (P100580- Roads and Safety Improvement Project,
approved March 2009) for US$400 million was considered. Second, an additional road
transportation investment was considered with financing in the range of US$200-400
million (P127156- Second Road and Safety Improvement Project, approved in September
2012). Both projects were expected to contribute to reducing transportation costs, as well
as improvements in road safety.
The project was the Bank’s first in the transport sector in Ukraine but was designed to
complement ongoing and planned roads projects with support from other International
Financial Institutions. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)
and the European Investment Bank (EIB) were focusing their efforts in the western part of
the country. The Bank focused its efforts on the Eastern part of the country to improve
access to the Donbass region 5.



2
  Using two different methods of calculation, Concept of Improvement of Road Traffic Safety in Ukraine,
Ministry of Transport and Communications, 2006.
3
  WSP, 2006, Road Financing Report, State Road Services of Ukraine – Ukravtodor.
4
  Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regulation No. 217 of February 14, 2007, On Introducing Amendments of
Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No.710 of September 3, 2005’.
5
  The Donbass region include the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, a highly industrialized area in the country
where an important coal mining area is located. The area is estimated to produce close to 30% of the exports
of the country.

                                                     2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective (PDO) as approved and stated in the Loan Agreement
was to improve the condition and quality of sections of the M-03 road and to increase safety
on roads 6.
Achievement of the PDO was to be assessed by using the following key indicators:
      (i) Improvement in the riding quality along the section between Boryspil and Lubny
           of the M-03 road
      (ii) Increase in road safety towards EU level
Intermediate outcome indicators were:
      (i) Reduction in the number of crashes between Boryspil and Lubny
      (ii) The number of black spot areas along the main network has been reduced.
      (iii) Length of the M-03 road upgraded
      (iv) Increase in the number of staff trained in road management and operations
      (v) Launching of a pilot performance based contract

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO for the project was not revised throughout the project life. On July 19, 2011, the
project went through a Level 2 Restructuring that changed the targets for key PDO
indicators, the intermediate indicators, and allocations across components. The revised
targets are presented in Table 2.

Table 2: Revised Project Indicator Targets
    Project           Outcome Original Target                         Modified Target
    Indicator
    Improvement in the riding IRI <2 (for 120 km.)                    IRI <2 (for 140 km.)
    quality along the section
    between     Boryspil    and
    Poltava of the M-03 road.
    Increase in road safety 6                                         <8
    towards EU level (fatalities
    per 10,000 vehicles)
    Intermediate      Outcome Original Target                         Modified Target
    Indicators
    Length of the M-03 road 120                                       140
    upgraded



6
 The PDO stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was worded slightly different as: to improve the
condition and quality of sections along the M-03 road, and increase traffic safety on roads.

                                                   3
 Original indicator: The 0                                     25
 number of black spots along
 the main network has been
 reduced.
 Revised indicator: The
 number of black spots
 treated through the project.
 Original indicator: Increase 100                              30
 in the number of staff
 trained in road management
 and operations.
 Revised indicator: Number
 of    staff   trained  in
 performance based road
 management            and
 operations.


The changes resulted in a reduction in the size of the Road Safety Component with fewer
black spot improvements, and an increase in the size of the Road Rehabilitation Component.
The revised results expected an increase in the number of kilometers to be rehabilitated by
the project from 120 to 140 kilometers but a reduction in the number of black spots
improved from 110 to 25. More detail is provided in Section 1.7.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

Road users, both individuals and truckers, were expected to be the main beneficiaries. They
were to benefit from reduced vehicle operating costs resulting from physical road
improvements, through the rehabilitation of roads and better road maintenance, and
increased road safety. Rehabilitation works included in the project were designed to
improve road conditions and improve road safety. Ukravtodor, the national road agency,
was to benefit from improved capacity to manage and implement road investments.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The proposed project cost was estimated at US$500 million of which the Bank loan
financed US$400 million. The project included three components described below:
Component 1: Road Rehabilitation of about 120 kilometer section (Borispil-Lubny)
of the Kyiv-Kharkiv-Dovzhansky highway (M-03) (estimated cost US$298.5 million).
This component comprised civil works for the rehabilitation/ strengthening of the existing
2x2 lanes of the M-03 highway (about 120 km section), including safety measures for the
vehicles (i.e. signaling, lighting in critical sections, crash barriers, etc.,) and for local
inhabitants (i.e. pedestrian crossings, parking, and special facilities). The M-03 highway
was considered strategic for Ukraine’s integration with the EU road network and as a
potential domestic and international transit corridor.


                                             4
Component 2: Road safety improvement (estimated cost US$99.0 million). The project
was to carry out a program of safety measures for vehicles and local inhabitants at traffic
accident black spots on public roads (about 110 black spots were targeted). The component
was to fund the supply and installation of road safety improvements such as vertical and
horizontal signaling, reflectors (cats’ eyes), rumble strips, and modern crash barriers on the
most critical points on public roads.
Component 3: Capacity Building (estimated cost US$1.5 million). The project was
meant to provide advisory services, training and equipment to enhance road management
according to international practice, including: (a) improvement of Ukrainian norms, rules
and standards in the design, construction, repair and maintenance of roads; (b)
modernization of road management and operations, including implementing performance
based contracts and introducing systems for planning and programming road works, and
(c) introduction of international ‘best practice’ contracting in the road sector.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during the life of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes
Under the first restructuring, allocation of funds between Project components was revised
in order to address lack of interest on the part of civil works contractors in contracts for
road safety works (see section 2.2). The component’s allocation was revised with the first
restructuring to include: (a) a reallocation of a part of the funds from disbursement
Category 3 (Civil Works under Part 2 - Road Safety Improvement) to Category 2 (Civil
Works under Part 1 - Road Rehabilitation); and (b) an increase in the total length of the M-
03 road to be rehabilitated or upgraded, and a reduction in the number of accident “black
spots” to be improved. The table below summarizes the changes in the project allocations.
Table 3: Revised Allocations and Scope of Components after Restructuring
 Category            Original          Allocation after Original After
                     Allocation        restructuring               restructuring
                     USD               USD              Scope of Work
 (1) Goods,          8,500,000         8,500,000
     Training and
     Consultants'
     Services
 (2) Civil Works 294,500,000           349,500,000      120 km     140 km
     under Part 1
 (3) Civil Works 96,000,000            41,000,000       110 Black 25       Black
     under Part 2                                       Spots      Spots
 (4) Front - and Fee 1,000,000         1,000,000        -          -

The second, third and fourth restructuring granted extensions in the closing date to address
delays in the completion of works, particularly those performed by local contractors, and
the works awarded after the first restructuring.


                                              5
The project was extended for a total of 23 months, from January 1, 2013 to November 30,
2014. The Country Director approved all restructurings.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project Preparation. The project was informed by analytical work carried out during 2005
and 2006, including a comprehensive Transport Sector Policy Note (2006) that identified
key challenges. Amongst them the need to: (a) establish a sustainable financing strategy
for the road sector; (b) reduce the maintenance backlog; (c) improve road safety by
eradicating “black spots”; and (d) re-organize the system of operational management of
public roads, including the introduction of performance-based contracting in road network
maintenance. The project was designed to address a few of these key issues through
improving road network maintenance, road safety and reducing the maintenance backlog
by upgrading a key corridor in the country.
A grant 7 for USD$700,000 was secured to finance the preparation of the project in June
2006. The grant’s objective was to improve the institutional capacity of Ukravtodor as the
implementing agency and identify and prepare an investment project. The grant’s outputs
included feasibility studies, initial environmental and social assessments, engineering,
design, and bidding documents. The use of high quality and international consultants with
experience preparing Bank-financed projects positively impacted the quality and readiness
of the project for implementation. This was particularly relevant given the lack of
experience of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with Bank-financed projects.
Furthermore, the project built on the experience with projects financed under other IFIs
like the EBRD, particularly regarding the implementation arrangements, and the
procurement and financial management capacity of the proposed PIU.

Project Objective: The PDO was responsive to the country’s circumstances and
development priorities. It also was in line the Bank’s CPS both during preparation and later
in implementation. The improvement of the condition and quality of the M-03, a key
corridor connecting to the European road network was in line with the country’s priorities.
The M-03 corridor was selected for its importance as a trade corridor linking Europe and
Russia. When the project was designed, Ukraine was a key transit corridor between Russia
and other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and the European Market and the
M-03 was one of the corridors with the highest traffic. At the time, the EBRD was
completing works on the M-06, part of the European priority corridor (Bratislava-Kyiv).
The M-03 connects that corridor to Eastern Ukraine and beyond 8. Ukraine had some of the
highest fatal traffic crash rates, three to four times higher than EU average rates. The
Government had set the objective of halving the accident rate by 2010 as part of their quest



7
  A project preparation grant under the PHRD facility financed by the Government of Japan was approved in
May 2007.
8
  Since 2014 due to unforeseen events the future role of this corridor in supporting transit between Russia and
European markets is uncertain in the short to medium.

                                                      6
to achieve EU levels of road safety. Thus, increasing road safety as part of the PDO was
also relevant.
Project Design. As the first project in the transport sector for the Bank, the design was
kept simple to minimize the risks associated to multiple implementing partners, lack of
experience implementing World Bank projects in the sector, and weaknesses observed in
the budget management and public procurement laws. The project focused on civil works,
emphasizing improving road safety both in the selected corridor, and through investments
in black spot removal at the national level.
The PAD identified lessons from the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) evaluations in
other sectors considered in the design of the type of instrument used 9. In particular, it
followed a programmatic approach that would built on the experience of implementing
roads projects in Ukraine, and allow for a phased approach to reforms. This strategy was
aimed at not overloading investment lending with policy conditionality.
The first component was related to civil works on the M-03 corridor. The proposed
rehabilitation was in line with the standards applied to other IFI projects. There was special
focus given to incorporating safety features including improved pedestrian crossings,
guardrails, road signs, pavement markings, and lighting of critical intersections.
The second component was related to civil works for the improvement of the black spots
with high accident rates. It included measures to eliminate or reduce safety hazards at low
standard intersections, guardrail installation, signs and pavement markings, lighting at
critical spots, traffic flow improvements, and improved horizontal alignment at critical
sharp curves. The elimination of critical black spots in the country, was expected to
significantly contribute to the reduction of accidents and fatalities in the country.
Experience in the implementation of road safety activities shows that to maximize the
impact of road safety civil works, a strong education and enforcement campaign to change
dangerous behaviors need to accompany the investments. Partly due to the reluctance of
the Government to use loan proceeds for institutional capacity activities, and the lack of a
mandate of the implementing agency to implement such campaign, the project designed
lacked this key element. The lack of complimentary activities did not address high risk user
behavior. Without a change in behavior, positive road safety results may not be sustainable.
As a result during preparation, and advised by Bank Management, the team was requested
to develop a program to compliment the road safety investments to be financed by
supervision resources, or Bank internal trust funds 10.
The third component, although not directly associated to the achievement of the PDO, was
warrant to mitigate the risks associated to lack of maintenance. The preparatory analytical
work identified as a key issue the maintenance backlog. Although, rather small due to the



9
  During project preparation, different Bank instruments were considered, including a possible Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) and a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP). Ultimately, the instrument selected was a
Specific Investment Loan (SIL).
10
   A trust fund (TF-012382- Ukraine Road Assessment Program) for USD 160,000 from the Global Road
Safety Facility (GRSF) was secured to provide support to the improvement of road safety in Ukraine. This
trust fund was particularly focused on supporting the implementation of the roads component in the second
project.

                                                   7
Government’s reluctance to use loan proceeds to finance the technical assistance
component 11, the proposed activities were seen as a stepping stone in addressing key sector
reforms.
Project Risks. The PAD identified risks associated particularly to weak governance and
corruption, slow implementation, and government actions. Most risks to the project were
identified and mitigation was sound, as detailed in the table below. Although in some cases
particularly in reference to weaknesses in the implementation capacity mitigation activities
could have been more finely-tuned.
Table 4: Risk Assessment
 Risks Identified in the PAD                             ICR Comments
 To PDO
                                                         The economic environment deteriorated
                                                         throughout the life of the loan. During the
                                                         implementation period, lack of state funds
                                                         to finance the Value-Added Tax (VAT)
                                                         portion of the contracts delayed
 Country macroeconomic risks (High)
                                                         implementation. Particularly, for those
                                                         contracts under implementation by local
                                                         contractors. In addition, since 2013, the
                                                         political situation in the country has
                                                         significantly deteriorated.

                                                         Both Ukravtador and the GOU were
 Reversal of Government commitment for                   committed to the project throughout
 improving investment climate in Ukraine                 implementation. The continuous dialogue
 and potential conflict between Ministry of              with the Government and the effort to
 Transport and Ukravtodor over program                   improve dialogue jointly by all donors
 (Modest)                                                helped maintain the Government’s
                                                         commitment to the implementation of the
                                                         project.
 To Project Component Results

 Changes in Ukravtodor’s management                      Although changes in the management of
 slow down project implementation and                    Ukravtador did not impact the selection of
 raise possible controversies about sector               project activities, the some changes in
 priorities (High)                                       senior management did slow the pace of
                                                         reforms and project implementation.
 Delayed project implementation due to lack
                                            At appraisal, the PIU was staffed
 of experience dealing with the World Bank appropriately to fulfill Procurement and


11
   Although there is evidence in the project documents of an attempt to include a “soft” intervention
component, due to lack of interest by the Government on lending for capacity building and difficulties coming
from the implementation structure and the implementing entities mandate, only the infrastructure component
safety was included in the project.

                                                     8
 procurement     guidelines     and  FMS Financial        Management          Systems
 requirements. (Substantial)              requirements. At preparation, the project
                                          would have benefited greatly from market
                                          assessment of the road construction sector,
                                          to gauge the interest of local contractors in
                                          the road safety component activities. The
                                          lack of such knowledge led to late changes
                                          in the procurement strategies, and
                                          ultimately the need to restructure the
                                          project a year before closing. During
                                          implementation, the PIU’s capacity was
                                          limited by the large number of projects
                                          under implementation financed by several
                                          IFIs, including the two large WB funded
                                          projects.
 Delayed payment processing by the State
 Treasury    negatively    affecting  the Delays in payments and disbursements
 implementation due to inexperience of were a result of lack of appropriate State
                                          budget allocations to reimburse for VAT.
 State Treasury in effecting World Bank
                                          Delays were not associated to constraints
 payments under new funds flow in the State Treasury payment processing
 arrangement (Substantial)                ability.

                                       There was no misuse of funds in the
                                       project. During implementation, an issue
 Misuse of funds due to poor corporate in reference to a specific contractor issuing
 governance and/or lack of procurement a false Bank Guarantee to the
 capacity (Substantial)                implementing agency came about. This
                                       issue is being addressed through the court
                                       system. There was a Governance and
                                       Anticorruption plan in place.

                                            Insufficient funding for maintenance is
 Insufficient funds for road maintenance of still prevalent and it continues to pose a
                                            threat to the sustainability of the project’s
 rehabilitated road network. (Moderate)     investments. It has become a high risk to
                                            the sustainability of the project
                                            investments.


2.2 Implementation
Implementation arrangements. The implementation arrangements were kept simple,
with only one implementing entity responsible for project implementation. The roles of the
PIU were clearly defined. By using Ukravtodor as the PIU for the Bank roads projects, the
project was able to leverage the experience acquired by the PIU in the implementation of
EBRD and EIB financed investments. This contributed positively to the progress of the
civil works component. Despite an initial delay in the procurement process of about 6
months, the four main civil works contracts for the rehabilitation of the M-03 were awarded
early in 2010 and implementation progressed until September 2012.


                                            9
Factors outside the control of government and implementing agencies
Political Economy. The aftermath of the global financial crisis impacted the ability of the
Ministry of Finance to fulfill all project counterpart VAT financing obligations on time.
As an example, the Government acquired financial liabilities for works performed by
contractors to host the Euro Cup in 2012. The arrears owed to some local contractors,
generated financial insolvencies to some of them with negative impacts on the
implementation of the project. Early in the implementation process, one of the international
contractors was unable to find solvent local firms that could carry out the works. The
contract was cancelled and a new procurement process was launched to replace the
contractor. This caused some delays in implementation of civil works that were corrected
and most works impacted were completed on May 2013, before the revised closing date.
Furthermore, in the spring of 2014 a second contractor, after months of delayed execution,
finally went bankrupt. The resulting delays were the main reason for the last two extensions
to the project closing date. The difficult economic situation through most of the project life,
negatively impacted the completion of works on time.
Political Events during the final implementation years that impacted project areas. In
the last 16 months, the political instability in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine also impacted
the execution path of the project. The volatile political situation impacted the implementing
agency which had its capacity already stretched due to the high amount of works under
implementation. At the time of the ICR, the outstanding issues related to the works in
Crimea remain unresolved. 12. The political events negatively impacted the PIU’s capacity
to implement the project.
Factors generally subject to government control
The Government was inconsistent in the payment of VAT. Throughout the project, on
several instances the VAT arrears continued for extended periods. This situation was
exacerbated in the last year as a result of the political crisis, and the impact of it on the
economy and the Government’s budget. The late payments situation further compounded
the contractors’ financial issues and cash flows. Ultimately, the project was extended
several times in order to allow for enough time to complete all works under the Project,
and the implementing agency cancelled a second contract close to the end of the project 13.
An exceptional US$17 million direct contracting process resulted in assigning the
remaining works to a contractor working on other works close to the site. Unfortunately,
the new contractor was also plagued with cash-flow issues which, combined with lack of
provision of bituminous products, further delayed the execution of works and triggered a
last moment third extension of the closing date. A last moment intervention of an
international subcontractor allowed to partially recover those delays.




12
   . In 2014, the Government reportedly a contract under implementation in Crimea. As a result, undisbursed
loan funds allocated to those works were cancelled.
13
    The PIU cancelled the contract due to the abandonment of works by the local contractor.

                                                    10
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

Quality of the works. The quality of the works was in general high and benefited from
well-equipped international and domestic contractors and international supervision
consultants. The Bank also obtained grant finance to support independent technical audits
which not only fostered good governance but also led to some recommendations on
improving design specifications and materials mixes. The technical audits allowed for early
identification of deficiencies in the quality of the works, and swift resolution of issues. The
International Road Assessment carried out as part of the activities of the road safety
component, showed that the works performed as part of component 2 were of good
standard and had a positive impact in the improvement of safety in the roads.
Project Savings- The first four contracts for civil works under component one generated
savings that were then used to increase the number of kilometers rehabilitated in the project.
The expected cost per km at appraisal was UAH$ 18.0 million per kilometer. The actual
cost was UAH$ 14.9 per kilometer, a saving of almost 17% per kilometer. This positive
achievement helped the Government exceed the original target for number of kilometers
rehabilitated. During the first few years of implementation as a result of slow progress on
civil works contracts, the Bank team and the PIU made great efforts to manage effectively
a large number of procurement processes and contracts. The efforts significantly
contributed to the achievement of the key development objectives. All large contracts were
concluded on time by the revised (at restructuring) closing date.
Improved designs and project administration. The use of international best practices in
procurement and contracting -- use of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and standard
FIDIC contracts-- lowered the perceived risks by bidders, and improved the quality and price
of bids. By using ICB procurement processes, the PIU was able to generate significant
contract savings that ultimately were used to increase the number of kilometers rehabilitated
by the project. In addition, by using FIDIC standard contracts and practices, international
contractors could better predict their roles and responsibilities, and how risk is allocated and
managed throughout the contract implementation. The use of standard bidding documents
and improved designs helped the Government implement a large share of the civil works
under component 1, on time and with high quality.
Mid- Term Review. The mid-term review concluded that the original “black spot”
removal program to improve road safety was performing poorly. Two years through the
implementation period, and after several failed attempts at procuring black spot
rehabilitation contracts, component 2 was showing slow progress. As mentioned in the
restructuring paper, there was lack of interest by contractors in participating in the bidding
processes for the road safety works. Despite several attempts with different procurement
packaging, only a small fraction of the road safety works was awarded. Contractors who
did participate offered very high prices. There was little demand for small works, as most
contractors were occupied with larger infrastructure projects associated to the preparation
of the 2012 Euro Cup to be hosted by Ukraine and Poland. Lack of interest in works under
component two resulted in the need to change the procurement strategy, and ultimately led
to the restructuring of the project. The revisions of project indicator targets and
reallocations for funds (see sections 1.3 and 1.7) were adequate to reflect the early


                                              11
achievements of the project and increase the size of component 1 which was performing
adequately.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E design, specifically with regards to the project results framework, had a number
of limitations. Furthermore, the implementation and utilization of the M&E system was
negatively impacted by those limitations.
Monitoring and Evaluation was rated moderately satisfactory at project closing. Although
M&E was rated satisfactory throughout most of the project, due to lack of regular updates
in the progress of indicators by the Government, the rating was downgraded a year and a
half before project closing.
M&E Design Assessment: The design of the project M&E system, specifically in relation
to the project results framework was not adequately specific, measurable and sufficiently
accurate. The detailed analysis of the design including the PDO statement, the PDO-level
results indictors, and intermediate indicators and M&E arrangements is as follows.
-    PDO statement: The PDO statement was formulated around both improving the
     quality of the selected corridor and of the improvement of road safety. In reference to
     the second part of the objective, it was defined too broadly considering the amount of
     resources allocated to the activities and the geographical scope of the program. At the
     first restructuring, when the “black spot” treatment component was reduced, the team
     should have modified the PDO of the project and acknowledge that under the project it
     was very difficult to impact road safety indicators at the country level. A better
     approach was introduced in the Second Road and Safety Improvement Project in which
     the objective was to improve road safety in the selected corridors.
-    PDO-Level Indicators: The indicator selected to measure improvement in riding
     quality and condition on the road was the International Roughness Index (IRI), a
     traditional measure of road quality. The increase in traffic safety on the roads was
     measured as the reduction in fatalities per 10,000 vehicles 14. The indicator for road
     safety should have been defined in a more narrow way. The proposed indicator
     measured the impact of a country –wide black spot reduction program, but the program
     was fairly small to have a measureable impact on the country wide indicator. In
     addition, the use of such broad indicator complicates attribution of positive results to
     the Bank project.
-    M&E arrangements. The baselines for the indicators were established in 2007, at the
     time when the PAD was prepared. This was almost two years before the project started.
     They were never revised before the project started. This is problematic in particular for
     the road safety PDO indicator and intermediate indicator. The statistics of the World
     Health Organization show a sharp decrease in the number of fatalities per 100,000 in
     population in Ukraine between 2007 and 2009, as a result of the adoption of more



14
  In general, a more widely used indicator for road safety is fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants. This indicator
could have been a better indicator to monitor and collect data on given its availability, and existence of
benchmarks to compare performance.

                                                      12
     stringent EU regulations. These improvements in road safety in the country are clearly
     not attributed to the project.
With the hindsight, given the nature of the project's activities in road safety and the absence
of integrated work with Ukrainian authorities on the road safety management, as well as
the substantial reduction in the second component’s scope upon the first restructuring, the
indicator on road safety (fatalities per 10,000 vehicles) might have been defined in a too
broad and ambitious fashion without clear linkages between the project and the expected
results.
The results of the third component were measured by the number of staff trained in
maintenance operations, and by the launching of the performance-based contract. These
two indicators, in particular the second, meet the objective of component 3. In this case,
the indicators measure outputs with no measurement of outcome, the quality of training or
relevance of it. The indicator on the performance-based contract was limited to the launch
of the contract only, and it did not imply actual contract signature or success of the initiative.
M&E Implementation. The road accident statistics were not regularly collected, and the
reliability of the data was a concern. The definitions of the intermediate indicators changed
during the restructuring generated confusion in the reporting of progress 15. Although the
implementing agency did submit detailed, periodic implementation reports, it focused on
monitoring the execution of contracts and expenditures and not on monitoring progress
toward the project’s end results.
M&E Utilization. The PIU relied on the reports by the construction supervision
consultants to monitor closely physical works and outputs. The PIU submitted a quarterly
financial reports to the Bank, in accordance with the legal covenants, which focused on
monitoring outputs, not outcomes. With more attention to outcome monitoring and
planning, delays in the works could have been identified earlier, and remediation steps
taken in a timely fashion.
M&E Sustainability: Based on the shortcomings identified in the first road and safety
project operation, the M&E framework for the second project was better defined, and the
new operation has the opportunity to improve the capacity of the PIU to implement an
appropriate M&E system. The Bank needs to continue emphasizing to the Government that
an appropriate M&E, framework can be an excellent project management tool, which can
help monitor the achievement of project development objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance is rated Satisfactory.
Environmental Safeguards. The Project was an Environmental Category B (partial
Assessment) Project, with minor negative impacts on the environment. In compliance with
the World Bank OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and Ukraine’s national legislation
related to environmental protection, the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was


15
  The implementing agency continued to report progress based on the original definitions, while the Bank
ISR reported based on the revised definitions at the restructuring. This had some impact on the quality of
data

                                                   13
prepared according to the guidelines. The EMP contained summaries of the mitigation plan
and a monitoring plan for implementation. The EMP was disclosed in the WB Infoshop in
November of 2007. Although part of the corridor passed close to protected areas, OP 4.04
was not triggered or impacted during project implementation. Throughout the project,
Environmental Assessment ratings were highly satisfactory. During Project preparation,
consultations on environmental aspects were carried out. Public hearings were held near
the communities located close to road sections to be rehabilitated under the Project, to
ensure that those most directly affected by the Project could—by voicing their opinions
and suggestions— increase the quality and efficiency of the works design. Mitigation
measures specified in the EMP were incorporated as requirements in the bidding
documents for the civil works, and suggestions from local communities—such as
additional accesses or drainages— were incorporated into designs.
Social Safeguards. In particular, Involuntary Resettlement has been rated Highly
Satisfactory throughout most of the life of the project. The first phase of the project did not
require resettlement. Minor relocation of businesses around the project area were required,
and were satisfactorily performed by the PIU. They were conducted in accordance with
the RPF and specific RAP, which were prepared before appraisal. One of the best practices
was consultation with communities to address early issues that required change in designs.
Although the government used public consultations as a way to change designs after
contracts were bid, and justify changes; early public consultation continued throughout the
project and was adopted for the second project.
Fiduciary Compliance is rated Satisfactory
Procurement – The risks associated with procurement, mainly timeliness and compliance
with the guidelines was rated substantial at the time of appraisal. Throughout the project,
the ISR rating for procurement was Satisfactory. Procurement was mainly carried out
through ICB, which triggered prior review by the Bank and mitigated potential risks. In
addition, the use of ICB led to large savings in the project that ultimately allowed the
Government to perform for additional works. The Government method used to estimate
the costs of public works systematically resulted in high prices. The ICB procured contracts
all resulted in lower costs for works, without a negative impact on the quality of the final
work. As a result, the PIU modified their procurement practices, to increase the use of ICB.
The management of procurement activities was carried out by the PIU with a small unit
staffed with procurement specialists, who at times were overloaded with multiple
simultaneous processes.
In several instances throughout the implementation, the preparation of procurement related
documentation was slow and hindered implementation on progress, to the point that in
some cases no-objections were requested after activities were carried out. In hindsight, the
procurement unit’s staff should have been strengthened. Overall, procurements processes
were carried out successfully and in a timely manner. Issues with procurement were related
mostly to the implementation of the contracts and timely submission of documents for no-
objection, particularly those related to contract amendments. Direct contracting (DC) was
only necessary in exceptional circumstances towards the end of the project, when one
contractor was found financially insolvent. The PIU provided an acceptable explanation
for the use of DC, to the Bank. DC was used in order to complete the project by the closing
date.

                                              14
Approximately UAH 113 million were allocated for the road safety component close or
after the mid-term review for works in Crimea 16 . A number of activities were still
underway in 2013 and 2014 when the political conditions in the area deteriorated and works
had to be stopped. One contract was terminated by the Government on the basis of force
majeure stemming from the conflict in Crimea. When the Project closed, there were still
outstanding claims under this contract with the Government informing that it was unable
to assess the relevance of the contractor’s claims as it was unable to go on site.
Financial Management- At appraisal, the Financial Management (FM) Assessment
concluded that the project FM capacity was sufficiently developed and the project satisfied
the minimal financial requirements. The overall residual FM risk was acceptable after the
mitigation. At least nine measures were put in place to mitigate the risk of misuse of Bank
funds. These measures included acceptance of services, strong technical supervision, strict
controls on payments and designated accounts, required audit reports, and strong financial
capacity at the PIU. Proper training was provided to the relevant staff, and proper internal
controls were applied for the project. Financial reports and audits were presented to the
Bank with an acceptable quality and per agreed deadlines. An exception, following Bank
policy, was granted in 2009 for the audit, due to very low disbursements in the first year of
implementation. Financial Management was rated Satisfactory in the ISR in the first year
of implementation, but it fell into the Moderately Satisfactory category in the third ISR.
Although in general the project maintained appropriate financial management, there was
delays in the implementation of an automated accounting system. Ukrdorinvest, eventually,
adopted an automated accounting system. The project’s FM rating at closure was
Satisfactory.
The total amount of the IBRD loan (IBRD- 76770) was US$ 400 million. The
Government was supposed to contribute USD $ 100 million to cover VAT payments. As
of April 30, 2014, a total of USD 380.4 million have been disbursed. USD 19.6 million
remain undisbursed. There is an outstanding balance of USD 176,360.40 on the
Designated Account. The grace period for payments was extended to allow for additional
disbursements

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The maintenance of the roads is under the responsibility of Ukravtodor. In general, road
maintenance has been carried out in house. The first performance based contract for
maintenance has been awarded and is expected to be the first step for improved
management of maintenance. The Bank continues to engage in the Transport sector with
an ongoing operation and a large project under preparation. The third project under
preparation will carry out additional activities meant to improve the financial sustainability
of the sector. In addition, the Government has requested support from the Bank to continue



16
   Due to the termination of the contract for works in Crimea, the PIU informed the Bank that loan proceeds
of the terminated contract were available for reallocation. This situation came up late in the implementation
process; therefore it was very difficult to procure new contracts for additional works. Several alternatives
were explored for the proposed reallocation, including financing works under the Second Roads and Safety
Improvement Project, given that it had the same PDO. These did not materialize.

                                                    15
the reform agenda, and more specifically to help develop a long-term strategy for the
transport sector 17. By doing so, the development partners and the GOU will advance the
policy dialogue. Among the discussed issues are furthering the decentralization agenda,
designing the first toll roads, including e-tolling to introduce private participation in the
sector, increase funding sources for routine and periodic maintenance, and improve the
quality assurance processes.
At completion, a few issues remain as a result of the political situation in the country. Three
of the contracts under the safety component were under implementation in Crimea. The
Government has informed contractors that it has been unable to verify works claimed to be
done by the contractors. Settlement of the claims remain the responsibility of the
Government as a party to the contracts.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project’s objectives remain relevant to Ukraine. A second project approved in 2012
maintained the same PDO, confirming the importance of the corridor and the strategy for
the country. Both the first and second roads projects contributed to one of the key pillars
of the Economic Reform Program of the President for 2010-2014, the modernization of
infrastructure and basic services. The PDO remains closely aligned with the CPS for the
Ukraine for FY12-16 which envisioned at least one additional roads project, and left the
door open to a third project for FY16 (currently under preparation). Furthermore, the
current CPS includes as one of its outcomes, improved road connectivity and safety18.
Thus the relevance of objectives is rated high.
The project was designed to create a balance between interventions to rehabilitate and
upgrade a key Ukraine trunk road towards Eastern Europe and to eliminate road safety
critical spots, complemented by a technical assistance component aimed at addressing
some of the key issues identified in the sector policy note. While the first component
contribution to the PDO was straightforward, it also contributed to the Project’s second
objective to increase road safety in Ukraine. The achievement of the intermediate outcome
indicator measuring the number of crashes in the Borispol – Lubny road segment
demonstrates this. The design relevance of component 1 was high. However, the activities
under component 2 were only targeted at works while it is recognized now that improving
the country’s road safety agenda would have benefited from more in depth and wider
approach, notably institutional strengthening measures, complementary regulations and
enforcement capacity. Therefore the relevance of the design of component 2 was modest.
The design of the institutional strengthening component tried to address some of the
recognized key issues of the sector, notably the limited efficiency and low quality, of sector


17
   This request is a result of ongoing dialogue, openness to reform by the new government, and the
recommendations of a recent Bank Policy Note on Quality Assurance.
18
   The third project emphasizes reducing the existing backlog in periodic maintenance and continuing the
upgrade of key transit corridors. A recent note prepared by the Bank of quality assurance emphasized the
need to continue sector reform to assure quality of outcomes. This requires a change in the overall
management of the sector and improve road asset management.

                                                  16
investments. By working on several aspects including standards, management practices
and contracting methods, the expectation was to contribute to the sustainability of the
sector.
The implementation arrangement was consistent with the project design. Ukravtodor
served as the implementing agency with Ukrdorinvest serving as the de facto project
manager. This arrangement was maintained in the second operation and is expected to
continue under the third project currently under preparation. It is expected that the capacity
built during the last six years will contribute to the efficient implementation of the third
projects, whilst with a strengthened team.
Overall, the relevance of the project’s objectives is rated high. The relevance of the design
of component 1 is also high, while the relevance of design for component 2 is rated modest.
Thus the overall relevance rating is substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The achievement of the project development objective is rated moderately
satisfactory. The rating is based on the evaluation of the achievement of the PDO, its
indicators and outcomes. The ratings consider the two objectives of the PDO.

Assessment of improved condition and quality of sections along the M-03 highway.
The M-03 highway conditions were improved to 4 lanes-dual carriageway expressway
standards on 150 km. The project’s original target was exceeded, and the revised target
was met by project closure. The civil works performed were of good quality, despite
significant delays in one contract. The achievement of this PDO outcome is rated high.
Assessment of increased traffic safety on public roads. The major achievement in road
safety of the project resulted from the project-financed upgrading to expressway standards
of the M-03, one of the country’s main corridors, which directly contributed to greatly
reduce the number of crashes between Boryspil and Lubny, from 248 per year before the
project to 10 per year at project closing. Nationally, fatalities per 10,000 vehicles annually
are now 4, half of the revised PDO outcome target of 8 or lower. It is reasonable to infer
that the project contributed somewhat to this national outcome through the M-03 upgrading.
With respect to the project’s road safety component as such, only 11 road safety critical
spots on the national road network, out of the 25 revised target, were resolved. Following
the poor experience with contracting for the black spots, the project adopted the approach
of making safety improvements to corridors rather than spots. Five of such corridor
improvement interventions were implemented in Crimea (totaling 22.45 km.) Although
the impact of these corridor improvements on safety is expected to be positive, at the time
of the ICR the accident data were not available to confirm the decrease in vehicle crashes.
Even so, the completion of these additional works mitigates, to some extent, the failure to
achieve the original targets under the black spot program.
In addition to achieving the targets set in the Results Framework, through the institutional
development component the project succeeded in supporting the design and bidding of the
first pilot of performance based road maintenance contract, an international best practice
for road maintenance management, in September 2013, financed by an EBRD loan.
Overall, the project’s attainment of the PDO outcome of improved road quality is rated
high, based on fully achieving the PDO indicator for riding quality on the M-03. The

                                             17
project’s achievement of the PDO outcome for road safety is mixed. On one hand, the
project performed well in contributing to road safety improvement on the M-03 corridor.
On the other hand, the effect of this on national road safety improvement, as measured by
the PDO indicator on fatalities per 10,000 vehicles, is hard to determine. As discussed
above, the PDO indicator for road safety was mis-specified, as the causal chain between
the project’s localized interventions and this national-level indicator was not robust. Even
so, the project’s contribution to national road safety improvements, given the large scale
of the upgrading under Component 1, was not negligible (see section 3.3 below). Thus,
the project’s achievement of the road safety objective is rated modest. Taking all of the
preceding into account, the overall efficacy of the project is rated substantial.

Split evaluation. The formal changes of indicator targets in 2011 require a “split
evaluation” of efficacy, per the ICR Guidelines. The revised indicator targets have no
effect on the ratings of relevance and efficiency. For road quality, the relevant indicators
are PDO indicator #1 (riding quality M-03) and intermediate indicator #3 (length of M-03
upgraded). For safety, the relevant indicators are PDO indicator #2 (fatalities nationally
per 10,000), intermediate indicator #1 (number of crashes between Boryspil and Lubny),
and intermediate indicator #2 (number of black spots treated). Intermediate indicators #4
and #5 are not related to either of the main project outcomes.

Rating against original indicator targets. For road quality, both of the original indicator
targets were fully achieved, so efficacy on this PDO outcome should be rated high. For
safety, the PDO indicator #2 target was fully achieved, the intermediate indicator #1 target
was fully achieved, and the intermediate indicator #2 target was not achieved. Considering
that the link between PDO indicator #2 and the project interventions is somewhat uncertain,
the result under intermediate indicator #1 is good, and the result under intermediate
indicator #3 is poor, the project's overall efficacy on the safety outcome is rated
modest. Combining the two main PDO outcomes, the overall project efficacy rating
against the original targets is substantial.

Rating against revised indicator targets: Applying the revised indicator targets, the
above assessment does not change. The only difference is that the achievement of
intermediate indicator #2 on black spots could be considered "partially achieved" rather
than not achieved. However, this would not affect the overall rating of modest efficacy of
the safety outcome of the PDO.

Table 5: Outcome Table for Revised Project
                   Against Original PDO          Against Original PDO Overall
                   and Original Target           and Revised Target
 1 Rating          Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory -
 2 Rating Value    4                             4                       -
 3 Weight (%       22                            78
    disbursed
    before/after
    target change)


                                            18
 4   Weighted          0.9                        3.1                        4.0
     value
 5   Final Rating                                                            Moderately
                                                                             Satisfactory


3.3 Efficiency
The efficiency is rated as substantial. The project’s efficiency in this ICR was analyzed
using the same methodology used at appraisal, and revised at the first project restructuring.
The analysis covers the road rehabilitation component, which is 87.5% of the project cost.
The ex-ante economic analysis considered an estimated rehabilitation cost of UAH 2,298
million (US$ 298.5 million) or UAH 18.0 million per km (US$2.33 million per km) and
yielded an Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), over a 20-year evaluation period, of
22 percent. The estimated Net Present Value (NPV), at 12 percent discount rate, was
US$1,050 million and the benefits were estimated to be about 1.9 times the capital costs.
Economic and financial analysis. Given the lower than estimated costs for road
rehabilitation works, the economic rate of return (ERR) of Component 1 is now higher than
calculated in the PAD (22 percent). The new ERR is estimated at about 28 percent and this
rate of return will also apply for the additional 4-lane road sections to be rehabilitated in
Component 1 since they are on the same M-03 road and have very similar characteristics
and traffic volumes. For those additional sections that are to be upgraded from 2 to 4 lanes,
the ERR will be slightly lower than the 22 percent stated in the PAD (around 16 percent),
given the higher cost of upgrading vs. rehabilitation only. The upgraded sections will
however have an additional highly positive road safety effect, since the upgrading to four
lanes will avoid most or all head-on collisions, which are today the most frequent and most
serious accidents on the existing 2-lane sections.
The ex-post economic analysis yields an EIRR, over a 20-year evaluation period, of 27
percent. The estimated NPV, at 12 percent discount rate, is US$1,668 million and the
benefits are estimated to be about 2.5 times the capital costs. The ex-post economic
evaluation results confirm the satisfactory economic justification of the project. The
detailed economic analysis is available in annex 3.
Table 6: Cost Analysis Appraisal vs. Completion (Local Currency, UAH)
                                Length     Contract     Variation      Actual      Actual/
                                            Cost         Orders         Cost       Contract
 Project Total                   150.6      2,239         340          2,579        1.15
 Project Cost per KM                         14.9         2.3           17.1        1.15

The road safety component was not included in the economic and financial analysis at
appraisal. The component was meant to have similar benefits to those expected in the M-
03 corridor. The ranking of the black spot proposals were based on the capital cost per
accident avoided. Prioritization was consistent with the rankings.




                                             19
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, the project’s relevance, efficacy, and efficiency are all rated substantial.
Considering that the key efficacy rating is mixed, comprising high efficacy on road quality
and modest efficacy on road safety, the overall project outcome is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. There was no study on
poverty impacts or gender aspects undertaken during the preparation or implementation of
the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening. While the overall reform process of the sector
progressed slowly, two specific achievements in line with Project design were achieved
under this project: (i) the introduction of international contracting practices (FIDIC) and
(ii) the design of the first pilot of performance based contract, financed by the EBRD.
Moreover, a continuous channel of dialogue was established between the Bank and
Ukravtodor and has paved the way for a more integrated support of the Bank to the road
sector reform policy in successive operations.
The first pilot of performance based contracts was successfully bid after two earlier failed
attempts. By introducing this type of contracts, the expectation is that Ukravtodor will be
better equipped to manage their road assets efficiently, improving overall effectiveness in
the administration of the Ukrainian road infrastructure.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There are not noticeable negative impacts of the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
There was not Beneficiary Survey or Stakeholder Workshops carried out through this project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The risk to the sustainability of the development outcome is considered substantial, as
improvement works under the first component, representing 87.5% of the value of the loan
upon restructuring, may not last if no appropriate maintenance is undertaken. The pilot
road rehabilitation and maintenance managed by performance is a promising outcome in
contributing to improve efficiency in the management of the sector. The positive impact of
this change is yet to be confirmed. Beyond, improving road maintenance, management
remains a key issue for both performance and financing in the road sector. A recent Road
Sector Policy Note prepared in December 2014, points out that the full project cycle would
benefit from improved management. The sustainability of the works performed in Crimea
is at this time Non-Evaluable due to the uncertainties resulting from the current political
situation.

                                              20
Slow adoption of core reforms to guarantee the financial sustainability of the sector put the
investments at risk in the future. Although, throughout implementation, dialogue with the
Government improved, there was little progress in assuring enough resources for the
operation and maintenance of the road sector. Current revenues do not cover basic
maintenance of roads. Rehabilitation of roads is financed only with IFI resources. A high
percentage of existing revenues are used for debt service, with little room to invest in
maintenance. It is expected that in the near future further reforms may improve the situation.
The envisioned third road sector project will address issues of maintenance by including a
large maintenance component to eliminate the current backlog, and continue working with
the implementing unit on improved road asset management, and private sector participation
in maintenance. If approved, this project should mitigate the risk to the development
outcome of this project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance during the preparation of the project was moderately satisfactory.
The project preparation was comprehensive and the Bank team undertook a number of
activities for preparation including a comprehensive Transport Policy Note. The project
also benefited from a PHRD grant for US$ 700,000. The PDO was relevant at that time
and continues to be relevant as evidence of support with the RSIP 2 project and the current
project under preparation. The risk assessment identified main risks, but in some cases fell
short in mitigation actions.
Some shortcomings in the preparation can be identified. The team was overly optimistic
on the impact the road safety component could have in the country. The project did not
envision institutional strengthening activities to accompany ambitious targets on road
safety. In addition, the size and focus of the institutional capacity component was
insufficient for such a large program, where the Bank had little implementation experience
in the sector. Advice received during the QER suggested including a more substantial
capacity building component. Unfortunately, the client was reluctant to finance advisory
services with loan proceeds. In retrospect, the team should have provided more compelling
reasons to the client to include such activities to guarantee the sustainability of the
investments. The M&E framework could have been better prepared and documented in the
PAD (refer to M&E discussion).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The quality of the supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank has been engaged
with the client during the implementation phase, paying due attention to the quality of the
civil works performed. The Bank regularly carried two supervision missions per year, and
prepared comprehensive Aide Memoires. The ISR reports were prepared twice a year and

                                             21
summarized the key issues. Both the outcome indicators and intermediate indicators could
have been better monitored. At times, they were not fully updated. Fiduciary and safeguard
policy compliance was rated either highly satisfactory or satisfactory by the bank
throughout the project. Good practices, and lessons learned from the first project were
considered in the second project, albeit not systematically.
As the Bank became more involved in the sector it was able to leverage more resources to
improve supervision. A number of trust funds were secured throughout the life of the
program (for both loans) to improve the impact of road safety activities, prepare a quality
assurance assessment, and mobilize experts with relevant expertise to improve the sector
dialogue. Throughout implementation, the team was also able to secure a local full time
staff member to closely monitor progress of both projects and maintain close and fluent
communications with the client. In addition, the project benefited from having local Bank
technical, social safeguard, environmental and financial management staff. Experienced
staff supporting the implementation were based in the region, making it easier and more
efficient to provide supervision support.
After the second restructuring, in 2012, the Bank struggled to monitor more closely the
progress of the project. This was difficult, particularly in 2013 and 2014 given the political
situation in the Eastern and Southern part of the country. Starting in late 2013, and through
the project closure in 2014, regularity of visits was impacted for several months. The
political situation made it difficult to carry out proper supervision, and furthermore
unleashed problems that were difficult to resolve under tight deadlines. Since 2013, the
supervision team has been demanding to respond as quickly as possible to emergency
requests including reallocation of resources, last minute extensions, and work contracts in
Crimea reported by the Government as having been terminated due to force majeure, direct
contracting requests and a last minute request to extend the grace period after project
closure, amongst others.
The Bank team was responsive to the PIU and GOU requests for advice and project
modifications. The project had three task managers in six years, which did not impact the
implementation of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank assisted the
Borrower in the preparation of the project. There were moderate shortcomings in the
quality of entry. During implementation, the Bank was responsive to the needs of the
borrower. The Bank actively tried to address implementation problems.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Despite the fragile political and economic situation in the country during the project
implementation, the GOU demonstrated commitment to and ownership of the project during
the design, the preparation and the implementation phases. The Government complied with
all legal covenants under the project and ensured compliance with the Bank safeguards

                                             22
procedures. A key shortcoming during the implementation of the project was the timely
provision of counterpart financing in the form of VAT payments. At several instances, the
Government did not appropriately account for the funds in the State Budget. The issues with
delayed VAT payments were identified as early as 2010, and continued throughout the project
life. Ultimately, some of the delays in payments of VAT from the GOU to the contractors, in
particular local contractors, hindered their ability to deliver their contract commitments.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which gained
experience managing large IFI projects and delivered a large amount of civil works with
good quality. The PIU had to deliver large projects financed by several donors. At times,
their capacity to manage daily activities was constrained by the amount of work necessary
to implement such programs. The PIU was focused in delivering the civil works component
of the project, but had little appetite and actual mandate to further sector reforms. The
moderately satisfactory rating is due to the delays in the implementation of civil works
resulting in low disbursement rates throughout the project and issues on timeliness of
actions and submission of documentation to the Bank for action that affected the
implementation progress 19 . This was evident in the ISR reports, were Implementation
Progress was rated Moderately Satisfactory at project closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating for overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on the
rating to the performance of the Implementing Agency and Government Performance.


6. Lessons Learned

Road Safety Strategy: A more integrated approach to road safety is favored. An effective
road safety strategy requires investments in infrastructure as well as substantial measures to
strengthen institutions, including a complementary safety education campaign and
enforcement. Both approaches developed under this project, although contributing to a
reduction in accidents, focused mainly on infrastructure improvements. For example, the
Second Roads and Safety Improvement Project (RSIP2), approved in 2012, adopted a
corridor-based road safety improvement approach in which interventions are concentrated




19
   Throughout implementation, the PIU was slow in processing documentation for Bank approval leading for
example to a number of no-objections given by the Bank after actions were taken, very late requests for
extension of closing dates, and missed opportunities to implement full funds close to project closing dates.
Although the Bank approved using loan proceeds from cancelled contracts to finance works under the second
project the PIU was unable to use the funds by closing. There was a need to extend grace period after closing
to process disbursements of eligible expenses.

                                                    23
along high-risk road corridors and have improved design standards. These investments are
complemented with interventions such as road safety audits.
By playing a leadership role among the development partners in setting the road safety
agenda and developing a consistent voice among donors, the World Bank raised the
prominence of road safety despite the government’s initial absence of support for a
comprehensive approach to it. IFI’s respective programs, including the European
Commission (EC), the EBRD, and the EIB, have been articulated in an efficient fashion with
the organization of regular coordination meetings. This has contributed to a coordinated
approach to support the sector, and has avoided duplications in efforts, which frequently
happens in countries with multiple development partners 20.
A third road sector project (currently under preparation) comprises activities to include in
the future best practice in design, enforcement, awareness, and emergency response.

Availability of Counterpart Funds: Issues with counterpart funding caused delays during
project implementation. In particular, the financial position of local firms was
compromised. Furthermore, the recent budget constraints in Ukraine have adversely
affected the ability of the government to finance VAT, land acquisition, design work, and
the operating expenses of relevant entities associated with project implementation. The
World Bank should consider more systematically financing 100 percent of project
costs to minimize the risks to implementation caused by a delay of funds coming from
the government. RSIP2, a project that is currently being implemented, has considered
options such as financing land acquisition and VAT.

Programmatic Approach to Lending: The continued engagement resulting from a
sequenced approach (a number of consecutive projects) to lending and complementary
trust funds can provide a platform to improve sector dialogue where the World Bank
is a new player in the sector. Although the first project had a small component to support
institutional building, the following projects allowed slowly building confidence in the
counterpart to include additional institutional capacity activities in the project. For example,
the government was reluctant in the first project to use loan proceeds to finance the
strengthening of institutions. The first project’s institutional component had limited scope
with USD 1.5 million (or 0.4 percent of the total loan amount). The second project slightly
increased the institutional component, but will probably fall short when it comes to
addressing reforms and improving management of the agency and sector’s capacity. The
current loan, under preparation, proposes about 2.5 percent of the amount should be allocated
to strengthening institutional capacity to improve road management, including developing a
more comprehensive road safety strategy that was missing in the first project.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The monitoring and evaluation framework is key to
identifying problems early and allowing for proper planning of corrective measures



20
   Among the activities supported by the full donor group was the GRSF supported road safety capacity
review study.


                                                   24
in infrastructure projects with multiple works contracts. Due to the lack of a strong culture
for planning, project management, and monitoring, the implementing agency took key
decisions late. A stronger project management culture can positively impact decision-
making. The quarterly reporting requirements should be used to closely monitor progress
of activities and works, and provide information to take informed decisions to improve
implementation. In these cases, the World Bank needs to work more closely with the PIU
to improve risk management and determine issues and solutions early on. Throughout the
implementation and due to lack of proper timely actions, the restructuring processes came
late and appeared to be reactive instead of proactive.
Improving Design of Civil Works: Consultations during the design phase and continuous
engagement with local communities during implementation improve compliance with
safeguard policies, as well as project design. Consultations during project implementation
were carried out because of issues raised by communities regarding the design of the works in
component one. These consultations produced feedback that improved project design and
addressed issues that were important to local communities. For example, pedestrian crossings
were modified to address community concerns regarding road safety; animal crossings were
better designed to address farmers’ concerns regarding the safety of their livestock. The
implementing agency adopted the practice of regular consultations during the design phase of
the projects to improve the interventions’ impact on local communities.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower provided to the Bank its Completion Report. The full text is provided in
Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                             25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage            of
Components                                           Estimate       (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                     millions)
Road Rehabilitation                      298.5               344.3       115%
Road Safety Improvement                   99.0                 33.6      34%
Capacity Building                          1.5                  1.4      93%
Total Baseline Cost                      400.0               379.3.0     95%
Physical Contingencies
                                               *
Price Contingencies
                                              *
Total Project Costs                         400.0                  379.3
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                   0.00     .00
Value-Added Tax (VAT)                       100.00                   0.00     .00
Total Financing Required                    500.00                   0.00

       (*) Physical contingencies (10%) and price contingencies (20%) are included in the
       above amounts.

(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                         Type       of Estimate       Estimate      Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing (USD             (USD          Appraisal
                                                       millions)      millions)
 Borrower                                              100.00         0.00          .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        400.00        379.3         95%
and Development

Note that exchange rate at appraisal was 1USD=4.95 UAH.
The exchange rate as of December 1, 2014 was 1USD= 15.06 UAH




                                                   26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Corridor Name                          Output Location               Length (km)
Component 1: Road Rehabilitation Program
M03                                    Km 44.5 to 90.0               45.50
M03                                    Km 90.0 to 126.7              36.70
M03                                    Km 126.7 to 158.0
                                                                     37.70
                                       Km 185.0 to 191.4
M03                                    Km 164.5 to 170.5             6.00
                                       Km 239.3 to 245.05
M03                                    Km. 245.05 to 258             30.46
                                       Km. 323 to 329.05
M03                                    Interchange at Km. 196.6
Supervision for Civil Works Contracts  3 supervisory firms
Component 2: Road Safety               Output Location                Length
M18 (Corridor Approach)                Km 662.75 to 680.2            17.45
                                       Km 690.485
                                       Km 692.202
                                       Km 693.1
                                       Km 694.162
M18 (Black Spot Approach)              Km 704.508
                                       Km 696 to 697
                                       Km 703
                                       Km 704
                                       Km 704.6
M05 (Black Spot Approach)              Km 444.5
                                       Km 298.075
M05 (Black Spot Approach)              Km 298.75
M18 (Corridor Approach)                Km 681 to 686                 5.00
Supervision for Black Spot Elimination
iRAP Evaluation
Component 3: Capacity Building         Outputs
                                        1. Bidding Documents for
                                           Pilot OPCR Contract
Technical   Assistance   for   Capacity
                                        2. Advisory through the
Building                                   procurement process for
                                           OPCR contract




                                        27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The project objective was to rehabilitate about 128 km of the existing road, within the
existing right of way, and to improve its safety between Boryspil and Lubny of the Kiev-
Kharkiv-Dovzhansky road (M-03). This reduced those elements of vehicle operating costs
(VOC) that are affected by poor riding quality, especially vehicle maintenance and tire
wear. Increased speeds yielded savings in driving time, and in the aggregate, it allowed
vehicles to increase their annual travel distances, increasing fleet transport potential and
lowering the fixed costs of ownership (depreciation, interest, and insurance) per km
traveled. At appraisal, the average cost per vehicle-km in the ‘without project (before)’
and ‘with project’ (after) were estimated using the VOC relationships derived from the
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III) and an Excel based
economic evaluation model was setup to perform the economic analysis of the project. The
ex-ante economic analysis considered an estimated rehabilitation cost of US$298.5 million
(UAH 2,298 million) or US$2.33 million per km (UAH18.0 million per km) and yielded
an Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR), over a 20-year evaluation period, of 22
percent. The estimated Net Present Value (NPV), at 12 percent discount rate, was
US$1,050 million and the benefits were estimated to be about 1.9 times the capital costs.

At appraisal, the average roughness of the project road was estimated to be 4.5 IRI, m/km
and the roughness after road works 2.0 IRI, m/km. On average, vehicle operating costs
with the project were estimated to be 4.8 percent lower than without the project (cars 1.8
percent, buses 9.8 percent and trucks 6.0 percent lower). The average traffic of the project
road was estimated to be on average 8,121 vehicles per day in 2006 (8,280 vehicles per
day between Boryspil-Pyriatyn and 6,920 vehicles per day between Pyriatyn-Lubny) with
around 62 percent composed of passenger cars. The annual traffic growth rate was
estimated to be 6 percent from 2006 to 2009, 7 percent from 2009 to 2015 and 4 percent
thereafter for all vehicle types. In addition, the ex-ante economic analysis included benefits
derived from the reduction in traffic accidents ‘with project’, considering that the fatality
rate was about 8 fatalities per 100 million vehicle kilometers ‘without project’ and the
proposed rehabilitation was going to reduce the fatality rate by 25 percent. The value
assigned to a human life used on the ex-ante evaluation was US$1 million per life saved.

Restructuring Economic and financial analysis. Given the lower than estimated costs
for road rehabilitation works, the economic rate of return (ERR) of Component 1 was
higher than calculated in the PAD (22 percent). The new ERR was estimated at about 28
percent and this rate of return also applied for the additional 4-lane road sections to be
rehabilitated in Component 1 since they are on the same M-03 road and had very similar
characteristics and traffic volumes. For those additional sections that are upgraded from 2
to 4 lanes, the ERR was slightly lower than the 22 percent stated in the PAD (around 16
percent), given the higher cost of upgrading vs. rehabilitation only. The upgraded sections
however have an additional highly positive road safety effect, since the upgrading to four
lanes avoids most or all head-on collisions which were the most frequent and most serious
accidents on the existing 2-lane sections.



                                             28
The ex-post economic evaluation was done using the same Excel economic evaluation
model developed at appraisal and same unit road user costs function of roughness, but
including actual road works length, rehabilitation cost and traffic in 2013 and actual
reduction in roughness and road fatalities brought about by the project. The project
rehabilitation works were done under six contracts. Table 1 present the actual rehabilitation
costs per contract. The total length of the contracts is 150.6 km and the total contracts
amount is UAH 2,239 million that corresponds to UAH14.9 million per km (17 percent
lower than the appraisal estimate). Including the variation orders, the actual rehabilitation
costs are UAH 2,579 million or UAH17.1 million per km). Thus, the actual rehabilitation
cost per km is 5 percent lower than the one estimated at appraisal, and is 15 percent higher
than the contract cost.

Table 1: Actual Project Costs per Contract
                                        Contrac Variation             Actual       Actual
                                        t
                                Length Cost     Orders                Cost         Contrac
                                                                                   t
      Road Section Name            (km)      (M         (M UAH)       (M UAH)      Ratio
                                             UAH)
 1    M03 (km 44+500 - km          45.5      503        78            581          1.16
      90+000)
 2    M03 (km 90+000 - km          36.7      483        103           586          1.21
      126+700)
 3a   M03 (km 126+700 – km         37.7      465        46            511          1.10
      158+000 and 185+000 –
      km 191+400)
 3b   M03 (km 126+700 – km                   206        0             206          1.00
      158+000 and 185+000 –
      km 191+400)
 4    M03 (km 164+500 - km         6.0       136        44            179          1.32
      170+500),
 5    M03 (km 239+317 – km         24.7      412        69            481          1.17
      245+050),M03        (km
      245+050        –     km
      258+000),M03        (km
      323+000 – km 329+050)
 6    M03 (interchange on                    34         0             34           1.00
      196+600)
      Project Total                150.6     2,239      340           2,579        1.15
      Project Cost per KM                    14.9       2.3           17.1         1.15

Table 2 presents the available recent traffic and roughness data on the project road. Traffic
counts are available from 2009 to 2013 and roughness values for 2012. For the ex-post
evaluation, it is estimated that the actual average annual daily traffic on the project road



                                             29
was 12,040 vehicles per day in 2013 21. In contracts, at appraisal, the average daily traffic
in 2013 was estimated to be 11,960 vehicles per day based on the 2006 traffic data and the
assumed annual traffic growth rate. Thus, the actual traffic in 2013 is 0.7 percent higher
than the one estimated at appraisal.

Table 2: Average Annual Daily Traffic and Roughness
           Actual Traffic Counts                     Estimated                   2012
 Contract Average Annual Daily Traffic (vehicles per Traffic                     Roughness
           day)
 Number 2009 2010 2011            2012 2013    2014 2013                         (IRI)
                                                     (vehicles/day)
 1                                      14,240       14,240                      0.7
 2                                      11,680       11,680                      0.9
 3a                        10,510                    11,021                      2.0
 3b                                                                              2.6
 4         9,330                                     10,258                      0.9
 5                8,360 10,022                       10,508                      2.1
 6                7,800 9,940                        10,423
 Project Road Average                                12,040                      1.6

The average roughness of the project road was 1.6 IRI, m/km in 2012. In contrast, at
appraisal it was estimated that the average roughness of the project road after the
rehabilitation works was going to be 2.0 IRI, m/km. Thus, the actual roughness after
rehabilitation is 22 percent lower than the one estimated at appraisal.

Table 3 presents the available road accident statistics on the project road. The table presents
the number of traffic accidents and causalities from 2011 to 2013, in averages per year, and
the resulting number per 100 million vehicle-km. The actual fatality rate on the project
road is 5.4 fatalities per 100 million vehicle-km. In contrast, at appraisal it was estimated
that the fatality rate was going to be 6 fatalities per 100 million vehicle-km after the
rehabilitation works. Thus, the actual fatality rate is 10 percent lower than the one estimated
at appraisal.

Table 3: Road Accidents Statistics
           Number per Year, 2011 to 2013 Averages
 Contract Total      Accidents Accidents Persons
 Number Accidents w Injuries w                Injured Fatalities
                                   Fatalities
 1         111.7     16.7          11.0       22.0    12.7
 2         75.7      14.3          7.3        23.0    10.0



21
  This assumes an annual traffic growth rate from 2010 to 2013 of 2.4 percent per year
similar to the GDP average annual growth rate during this same period.


                                              30
 3a       78.7      23.7        8.0             0.0       10.0
 3b       0.0       0.0         0.0             0.0       0.0
 4        5.7       0.3         0.0             0.3       0.0
 5        38.3      10.3        3.0             0.0       3.0
 6        4.0       0.3         0.0             0.7       0.0
 Corridor 314.0     65.7        29.3            46.0      35.7
          Number per 100 million vehicle-km
          Total     Accidents Accidents         Persons
          Accidents w Injuries w                Injured Fatalities
                                Fatalities
 Corridor 47.4      9.9         4.4             7.0       5.4

The ex-post economic analysis was done with the following assumptions:
          • The actual rehabilitation costs per km are five percent lower than the one
              estimated at appraisal.
          • The actual traffic in 2013 is 0.7 percent higher than the one estimated at
              appraisal.
          • The annul traffic growth rate from 2015 is 4.0 percent for all vehicle types,
              considering that the estimated GDP annual growth in Ukraine by the IMF
              is 3.6 percent from 2015 to 2010.
          • The actual roughness after rehabilitation is 22 percent lower than the one
              estimated at appraisal.
          • The actual fatality rate is 10 percent lower than the one estimated at
              appraisal.

The ex-post economic analysis yields an EIRR, over a 20-year evaluation period, of 27
percent. The estimated NPV, at 12 percent discount rate, is US$1,668 million and the
benefits are estimated to be about 2.5 times the capital costs. The ex-post economic
evaluation results confirm the satisfactory economic justification of the project.




                                           31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation
Support/Supervision Processes
a) Task Team members

                                                                               Responsibility/
Names                          Title                                   Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Andreas Schliessler            Lead Transport Specialist               GTIDR    Task Team Leader
Cesar Augusto Queiroz          Consultant                              GSURR   Consultant
Marie Antoniette Laygo         Program Assistant                       GTIDR   Program Assistant
Dmytro Kryshchenko             Investment Officer                      CNGF8   Investment Officer
Cordula Rastogi                Senior Transport Economist              GTIDR   Transport Economist
                                                                               Procurement
Anna I Wielogorska             Senior Procurement Specialist           GGODR
                                                                               Specialist
Olena Gorokhovska              Program Assistant                       ECCUA   Program Assistant
                                                                               Procurement
Knut J. Leipold                Lead Procurement Specialist             GGODR
                                                                               Specialist
Elena Lukyanchikova            Senior Executive Assistant              GTCDR   Executive Assistant
Tamara Sulukhia                Sector Leader                           ECCU2   Sector Leader
Irina Babich                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist     GGODR   FM Specialist
Said Dahdah                    Sr. Transport Specialist                GTIDR   Transport Specialist
Dmytro Glazkov                 Sr. Energy Specialist                   GEEDR   Operations Officer
Alexei Slenzak                 Senior Operations Officer               GENDR   Operations Officer
Olena Tranina                  Program Assistant                       ECCUA   Program Assistant
Jung Eun Oh                    Sr. Transport Economist                 GTIDR   Transport Economist
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao        Sr. Highway Engineer                    GTIDR   Highway Engineer
                                                                               Procurement
Irina Shmeliova                Procurement Specialist                  GGODR
                                                                               Specialist
Iouri Loutsenko                 Translator                             ECCUA   Translator
Rajeev Kumar Swami              Lead Financial Management Specialist   GGODR   FM Specialist
Michel Audige                   Consultant                             GTIDR   Consultant
Henry G. R. Kerali              Country Director                       ECCU3   Sector Manager
Charles E. Schlumberger         Lead Air Transport Specialist          GTIDR   Transport Specialist
Helen Z. Shahriari              Sr. Social Scientist                   GSURR   Social Specialist
Elizabeth C. Wang               Sr. Financial Officer                  GTIDR   Financial Officer
Christopher R. Bennett          Lead Transport Specialist              GTIDR   Transport Specialist
Bogdan               Constantin
                                Sr. Financial Management Specialist    GGODR FM Specialist
Constantinescu
Oksana Kovalenko                Consultant                             GENDR   Consultant
Supervision/ICR
Nadia Kislova                  Team Assistant                          ECCUA   Team Assistant
Yevhen Bulakh                  Transport Specialist                    GTIDR   Transport Specialist
                                                                               Sector Manager from
Juan Gaviria                   Sector Manager                          GTIDR
                                                                               11/2012 to 06/2015
Simon David Ellis              Lead Transport Specialist               GTIDR   Transport Specialist
                                                                               Infrastructure
Nijat Valiyev                  Sr. Infrastructure Specialist           GTIDR
                                                                               Specialist


                                                   32
                                                                           Infrastructure
Sadig Aliyev                   Infrastructure Specialist         GTIDR
                                                                           Specialist
                                                                           Task Team Leader
Eric R. Lancelot               Senior Transport Engineer         GTIDR
                                                                           from to
Klavdiya Maksymenko            Social Development Specialist     GSURR     Social Specialist
Funda Canli                    Program Assistant                 GTIDR     Program Assistant
Rodrigo     Alessandro   Akira
                               Consultant                        GTIDR     Consultant
Nakama
Aida Japarova                  Operations Analyst                GFMDR Operations Analyst
Ari Johannes Kalliokoski       ET Consultant                     GTIDR Transport Specialist
Iouri Loutsenko                Translator                        ECCUA Translator
                                                                       ICR     Task    Team
Maria Claudia Pachon           Sr. Transport Specialist          GTIDR
                                                                       Leader
Nargis Ryskulova               Operations Officer                GTIDR Operations Officer
Jing Xiong                     Transport Specialist              GTIDR Transport Specialist
Virginia Tanase                Sr. Transport Specialist          GTIDR Transport Specialist




b) Staff Time and Cost


                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY06                                                 0                   25,000
 FY07                                                26.58               181,407.24
 FY08                                                49.82               262,801.61
 FY09                                                38.81               172,164.42
Total:                                              115.21               616,373.27
Supervision/ICR
  FY10                                               23.67                88,509.91
  FY11                                               32.18               116,880.77
  FY12                                               34.03                99,101.61
  FY13                                               24.53                86,937.59
  FY14                                               37.70               108,600.76
  FY15                                               27.24                80,127.76
Total:                                              179.35               580,158.40




                                                  33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                              34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                             35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR
The Borrower submitted the Completion Report Below.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The Government of Ukraine (Government), represented by the Ministry of Finance of
Ukraine (MFU) and Project Entity State Road Agency of Ukraine (Ukravtodor), is
implementing a Road Safety Improvement Project (RSIP) financed by the World Bank
(WB) and co-financed by the Government of Ukraine. RSIP is in direct support of the
Government’s overall Road Sector Program. The Borrower is Ukraine. The implementing
agency is the State Road Agency of Ukraine (UAD).

The proposed Road Sector Program Support Project is the first World Bank supported
operation in Ukraine’s road sector. During 2007-2008 the World Bank and the Government
reached an agreement that the WB would support the Government’s Road Sector Program
through financing RSIP Project. The Loan Agreement Nr7677-UA between Ukraine and
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed April 21, 2009 and became
effective on September 3, 2009. The proposed project cost was estimated at US$500
million (approximately) of which the World Bank loan will finance US$400 million and
US$100 million (approximately) will be the co-financing from State Budget of Ukraine.
The design has been kept as simple as possible, as it was the first World Bank-financed
transport project in Ukraine. The State Road Administration of Ukraine (Ukravtodor) is
successfully implementing three consecutive EBRD-financed projects during the past five
years. However Ukravtodor would need to familiarize itself with World Bank procedures,
especially procurement and environmental and social safeguards.

Ukraine is an important transit country given its location between Russia and other CIS
states, and the EU market. The proposed project will leverage returns on major shared
infrastructure investments, such as EU-funded improvements to European priority
corridors, because this focuses on rehabilitating crucial domestic and regional corridors
that complement the European ones. These domestic and regional corridors include a
section between Boryspil and Lubny; a section of the M-03 road (Kiyv-Kharkiv-
Dovzhansky) linking eastern Ukraine industrial areas to the EU main road network.

In Ukraine, fatal traffic crash rates are among the region’s highest—three to four
times EU average rates. The Government, well aware of this pervasive issue, has
collaborated with the EU to develop a road safety program. The proposed Bank-supported
project aims to contribute to reducing road traffic crashes, injuries, and fatalities. In part,
this will involve eliminating some 110 identified “black spots,” which are road sections or
locations that have significantly higher-than-average numbers of road traffic crashes.




                                              36
 Source of Finance      Document Name /Credit Credit Amount
                        Number
 International Bank for Loan Agreement Nr7677- USD 400,000,000
 Reconstruction     and UA dated April 21, 2009
 Development
 Co-financing                                   USD 100 000,000

PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE

The project development objective is to improve the condition and quality of sections
of the M-03 road, and increase traffic safety on roads.

The Project consists of three components. The details of each component are indicated below.

Component 1: Road Rehabilitation of a 126 kilometer section (Boryspil-Lubny) of the
Kyiv-Kharkiv-Dovzhansky highway (M-03). Estimated cost was US$298.5 million
financed by the World Bank net of taxes, which supposed to be paid by Ukravtodor. In
case of exceeding the planned value of project, additional sums were supposed to be paid
by Ukravtodor. This component comprises civil works for the rehabilitation/strengthening
of the existing 2x2 lanes M-03 expressway (126 kilometer section), including safety
measures for the vehicles (signaling, lighting in critical sections, crash barriers, etc.,) and
for local inhabitants (pedestrian crossings, parking, and special facilities). The M-03
expressway is strategic for Ukraine’s integration with the EU network and as a potential
domestic and international transit corridor. The design features of the rehabilitation works
are being evaluated vis-à-vis the expected traffic volumes and composition.

Component 2: Road safety improvement. Estimated cost is US$99 million, financed by
the World Bank net of taxes, which will be paid by Ukravtodor. In case of exceeding the
planned value of project, additional sums will be paid by Ukravtodor. This component was
supposed to eliminate about 100 “black spots” of some 300 identified by Ukravtodor. In
addition the component was to fund the supply and installation of safety improvements
such as vertical and horizontal signaling, cats’ eyes, rumble strips, and modern crash
barriers on the most critical points of the national road network.

Component 3: Capacity Building. Estimated cost is US$1.5 million, financed 100% by the
World Bank. This component includes provision of technical advisory services, training
and equipment to enhance road management within the territory of the Borrower according
to international practice, including: improvement of Ukrainian norms, rules and standards
in the design, construction, repair and maintenance of roads; modernization of road
management and operations, including implementing performance based contracts and
introducing system for planning and programming road works; and introduction of
international “best practice” contracting in the road sector.




                                              37
ASSESSMENT OF THE OPERATION’S OBJECTIVE, DESIGN,
IMPLEMENTATION, AND OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE

The RSIP has been designed initially for four years period from 2009 to the end of 2012
and present Implementation Completion Report (ICR) analyses the execution and results
of this period.

As stated in the original Project Appraisal Document (WB, May 2009), project
development objective was to improve the condition and quality of sections of the M-03
road, and increase traffic safety on roads. The project had three components. The first
component was focused on physical road rehabilitation. The second component supports road
safety improvement measures. Component 3 covered capacity building area.

Component 1 consisted of physical road works and of consulting and other services directly
related to those works, such as feasibility studies (technical and economic), detailed
engineering design, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works. This
component comprises civil works for the rehabilitation/strengthening of the existing 2x2
lanes M-03 expressway (126 kilometer section), including safety measures for the vehicles
(signaling, lighting in critical sections, crash barriers, etc.,) and for local inhabitants
(pedestrian crossings, parking, and special facilities).

Component 2 was supposed to eliminate about 100 “black spots” of some 300 identified
by Ukravtodor. In addition the component was to fund the supply and installation of safety
improvements such as vertical and horizontal signaling, cats’ eyes, rumble strips, and
modern crash barriers on the most critical points of the national road network.

Component 3 included provision of technical advisory services, training and equipment
to enhance road management within the territory of the Borrower according to international
practice

The proposed key development indicators are: (a) Improvements in the riding quality
along the section between Boryspil and Lubny of the M-03 road (reduction of roughness
from IRI>5 to IRI<2); (b) Increase in road safety towards EU level (reduction of fatalities
per 10,000 vehicles from 8 to 6); (c) elimination of black spot areas identified by the State
Road Administration (Ukravtodor) along the national road network (about 110 black spot
areas); (d) Reduction of the annual number of crashes between Boryspil and Lubny by
around 50 percent, (e) number of staff trained in road management and operations of
international best practice over the life of the Project, and (f) launching of a pilot
performance-based road contract.

The overall outcome of the project is rated successfully for Component A because the
project met the objectives and is rated very satisfactory for other components because all
the objectives were met. See Annex A for details.


Component 2: Road Safety Improvement.

                                             38
Overall, the activities under this component have been undertaken as planned following
2011 restructuring, but for the contracts in Crimea.
On the three contracts in Crimea:
Contract #1, US$17.5 million for 17.5 km improvement works on M18 was completed and
fully paid;
Contract #2, US$4.6 million for 5 km improvement works on M18 including construction
of underground passages and safe descents was completed in April 2013, however payment
of the remaining 2.5% of the retention money is still pending;
Contract #5, US$14.4 million (including amendment) for 7.5 km improvement works on
the M18 would be, upon information at hand completed for the main contract (US$9.4
million for 5 km improvement of the M18) and scarcely initiated for the amendment (US$5
million for 2.5 more km of improvement of the M18).

The contract #5 was terminated on June 17, 2014 for force majeure. The contractor,
Yuzhdorstroy, which is from Crimea, claims that it would have done additional works in
the section of the main contract (the first 5 km), which, however, were not formally
authorized by Ukravtodor. Other claims concern works that would have already been done
under the contract#5’s amendment before termination. Other claims concern works that
have been done and certified by the Engineer, which can’t be paid due to the law "On legal
guarantee of people's rights and freedoms on the temporarily occupied territories of
Ukraine" #4473-1 dated 15 April2014, prohibits such field visits as well as money transfers
to entities in Crimea. Finally, the contractor claims the payment of the balance of the
retention money under Contract #2. In Total, claims would be about UAH 30 million (about
US$2.5 million).

ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOME OF THE OPERATION AGAINST THE
AGREED OBJECTIVES, UPDATED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR
THE PROJECT


 Contract           Contract
 reference          reference                     Admin
                                       Fundin
                    Description    of             -          Procuremen Contract
                                       g
                    Road                          istrato t Procedure signed
                                       Source
                    Rehabilitation                r
                    Works
                    Part 1. Road Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of about 120 kilometers
                    of the Kyiv-Kharkhiv-Dovzhansky road
 1                  ICB1:
                    REHABILITATIO
                    N OF M03 Kyiv-                                          12.02.201
                                       WB         WB         WB
                    Kharkhiv-                                               0
                    Dovzhansky
                    ROAD          KM



                                            39
               44+500 – KM
               90+00
2              ICB1:
               REHABILITATIO
               N OF M03 Kyiv-
               Kharkhiv-
               Dovzhansky
               ROAD KM 90+00
               – KM 126+700
3(TERMINATED   ICB1:
)              REHABILITATIO
               N OF M03 Kyiv-
               Kharkhiv-
               Dovzhansky
               ROAD        КМ
               126+700 - КМ
               158+000,    КМ
               185+000 - КМ
               191+400
3              ICB1:
               REHABILITATIO
               N OF M03 Kyiv-
               Kharkhiv-
               Dovzhansky            26.05.201
               ROAD        КМ        4
               126+700 - КМ
               158+000,    КМ
               185+000 - КМ
               191+400
4(TERMINATED   ICB2:
)              REHABILITATIO
               N OF M03 Kyiv-
               Kharkhiv-             19.03.201
               Dovzhansky            0
               ROAD        КМ
               164+500 - КМ
               170+500
4              ICB2:
               REHABILITATIO
               N OF M03 Kyiv-
               Kharkhiv-             23.08.201
               Dovzhansky            1
               ROAD        КМ
               164+500 - КМ
               170+500


                                40
5                  ICB3:
                   REHABILITATIO
                   N OF M03 Kyiv-
                   Kharkhiv-               29.12.201
                   Dovzhansky              1
                   ROAD         КМ
                   239+317-КМ
                   329+050
6                  ICB4:
                   REHABILITATIO
                   N OF M03 Kyiv-
                                           11.07.201
                   Kharkhiv-
                                           2
                   Dovzhansky
                   ROAD         КМ
                   196+600
1                  RFP           1.
                                           20.01.201
                   SUPERVISION OF
                                           0
                   CIVIL WORKS
2                  RFP           2.
                                           14.01.201
                   SUPERVISION OF
                                           0
                   CIVIL WORKS
3                  RFP           5.
                                           05.10.201
                   SUPERVISION OF
                                           1
                   CIVIL WORKS
Part 2. Road Safety Improvement

1                ICB__:“BLACK
                 SPOTS”
                 ELIMINATION М -           13.12.201
                 18 ROAD КМ                0
                 662+750 - КМ
                 680+200
2                ICB__:“BLACK
                 SPOTS”
                 ELIMINATION М -           09.03.201
                 18 ROAD КМ                1
                 662+750 - КМ
                 680+200
3                ICB__:“BLACK
                 SPOTS”
                                           06.10.201
                 ELIMINATION М -
                                           1
                 05 ROAD КМ
                 444+500
4                ICB__:“BLACK
                                           06.10.201
                 SPOTS”
                                           1
                 ELIMINATION М -


                                      41
                       05 ROAD КМ
                       298+075,    КМ
                       298+750
 5                     ICB__:“BLACK
                       SPOTS”
                       ELIMINATION М -                                                 28.02.201
                       18 ROAD КМ                                                      3
                       662+750 - КМ
                       680+200
 1                     RFP          3.
                                                                                       14.06.201
                       SUPERVISION OF
                                                                                       0
                       CIVIL WORKS
                       IRAP     ROADS                                                  01.05.201
                       SURVEY                                                          2

Consequently, the outcome of road rehabilitation component can be rated as successful.

EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER’S OWN PERFORMANCE DURING
THE PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPERATIONAL,
WITH SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON LESS\ONS LEARNED THAT MAY BE
HELPFUL IN THE FUTURE

The performance of the Borrower and State Road Agency of Ukraine (UAD) in carrying
out the responsibilities assigned to them was satisfactory. Ukravtodor, as the Project
Implementing Entity has sole responsibility for overall project implementation. Within
Ukravtodor, the Deputy Head has been appointed to be responsible for project
implementation. The Head of Ukravtodor Finance and Economic Policy Department has
been appointed to coordinate fiduciary aspects of project implementation.

For Component 2 of the Project there were identified the following black-spots:
     •   M-18: Kharkiv - Simferopol – Yalta (Crimea), km 662+750 - km 680+200 (18 km)
     •   М-18 Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta - Yalta, km 690+485;
     •   М-18 Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta - Yalta, km 692+202;
     •   М-18 Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta - Yalta, km 693+100;
     •   М-18 Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta - Yalta, km 694+162;
     •   М-18 Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta - Yalta, km 704+508.
     •   М-18: Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta – Yalta. Remove ruts, repair retaining walls, build
         safe descent, km 696-697.
     •   М-18 Kharkiv - Simferopol - Alushta - Yalta Construction of pedestrian bridges, km 703,
         704, 704+600,
     •   M-05 Kyiv - Odessa km 444+500. Improve traffic management scheme (reflecting signs,
         noise strips, and pedestrian barriers 1,8m), pedestrian bridge or undercrossing, arrangement
         of exterior lighting
     •   M-05 Kyiv – Odessa Construction of pedestrian bridge, pedestrian barriers, km 298+075 -
         km298+750
     •   M-18 Kharkiv–Simferopol–Alushta–Yalta road rehabilitation, km 681+000 – km 686+000
         (5 km)

                                                 42
PIU was in charge of day-to-day project operation and technical support. The capacity of
PIU increased from the beginning of the project implementation. The project progress
update was provided in quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports to the Bank. At the project
level, the UAD was adequately managed and implemented road rehabilitation contract.

EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK, AND
COFINANCIER, OR OF OTHER PARTNERS DURING THE PREPARATION
AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPERATION, INCLUDING THE
EFFECTIVENESS OF THEIR RELATIONSHIPS, WITH SPECIAL
EMPHASIS ON LESSONS LEARNED

The performance of the Bank (IDA/EIB/EBRD) was considered successful. The WB
fielded 12 missions including one pre-appraisal mission, one appraisal and negotiations
mission, and 10 supervision missions. Banks missions were focused on projects inputs and
outcomes (physical progress of the works and consulting services directly related to road
works as well as improvement of the Government’s and UAD’s capacity to plan, manage
and maintain the road network in Ukraine efficiently).

At the initial stage the World Bank had provided technical support and financing of the
project through a project preparation facility (PPF) of US$ 800,000. The WB has also
formally requested the Government of Japan to provide a PHRD project preparation grant
of US$ 708.450.

Ukraine: PHRD Grant for Preparation of the Roads and Safety Improvement Project Grant
No. TF 056961. The Letter of Agreement on May 22, 2007.

The results achieved:
   •   Selected international consultant to prepare the project for improvement traffic safety was
       appointed, namely the company High-Point Rendel (United Kingdom).
   •   Consultant analyzed the processes, procedures and responsibilities for recording
       and analyzing the accidents factors in Ukraine, both individually and statistically
       throughout the network; recommendations for the improvement of processes and
       procedures, range of measures on improvement of the traffic safety level in Ukraine
       was refined.
   •   Based on this work and other studies performed in Ukraine Safety Consultant
       prepared an action plan to improve road safety in Ukraine.
   •   An agreed approach for economic analysis of the measures effectiveness to
       eliminate blackspots was approved, that is in line with international practice and
       the requirements of the World Bank. The results of the assessment identified
       priority areas of accident concentration in order to implement measures to improve
       traffic safety for regions of Ukraine. Priority areas of concentration accidents are
       divided into package contracts geographically.
   •   Hereto, there was made an analysis of project documentation for repairs of Borispol
       - Lubny M03 highway Kyiv - Kharkiv - Dovzhanskiy. Particular attention was paid
       to analysis the artificial structures in the foregoing section.


                                              43
   •   Prepared General Procurement Notice and prequalification documentation for
       selecting contractors for construction works in the section of M03 Kyiv - Kharkiv
       - Dovzhanskiy road, Borispol - Lubny M03.

TOTAL PROJECT COSTS

The projected and final total project costs up to the end of June, 2014 are presented in the
table below.

                                                             Amou
                                                      Amou nt
                                              Amou nt        (US$)
                                              nt      (US$) Upon
                                              (US$)   as per the                  Total
                                              Upon    loan   project              (WB+c
                                              the     agree compl                 o-
                                              project ment   etion                financi
                                              compl (funds (funds                 ng
                        Amount (US$)          etion   of     of                   upon
 Project                as per loan agreement (funds Ukrai Ukrai                  comple
 Activity     Status    (funds of WB)         of WB) ne)     ne)                  tion)

 Goods,       Compl
 Training     eted
 and
 Consultant
 Services               8 500 000
 Civil
 Works
 under Part   Compl
 1            eted      294 500 000
 Civil        Compl     96 000 000
 Works        eted
 under Part
 2
 Front-end              1 000 000
 fee
 TOTAL                  400 000 000

Loan repayment dates

First Repayment                                   15-May-2014
Last Repayment                                    15-Nov-2038

Completed repayment as per schedule agreed
15-May-2014

                                            44
Date:          15 May 2014
Amount planned: 6,936,376.46 USD
Amount paid:    6,936,376.46 USD

Last availability date postponement

1. MoF letter dated 19 October, 2012 Nr 31-12230-05-15/25330
WB letter dated November 2, 2012 Nr 2012/11/2-6 – Closing Date December 31, 2013

2. MoF letter dated 9 December, 2013 Nr 51-12230-08-15/35706

WB letter dated December 18, 2013 Nr 2013/12/18-33 – stipulating further Closing Date,
i.e. September 30, 2014




                                         45
Table 1
Civil Works Contracts (initial and final mounts)


 N             Company                     Currenc Amount       of Final Amount
                                           y     of Signed         of    Contract,
                                           Contract Contract,      excl.VAT
                                                    excl.VAT
               Part 1. Rehabilitation of M03 Kyiv-Kharkiv-Dovzhanskyi Road
 1             LLC “Road Building UAH               503,287,092.9 581,432,432.2
               “Altcom”                             3              0
               Contract 1 (Part1)
 2             ONUR                Taahhut UAH      482,681,796.2 580,011,061.3
               Tasimacilik ve Ticaret               3              9
               Limited Sirketi
               Contract 2 (Part1)
 3             OJSC                        UAH      464,891,630.1 282,980,351.5
 (terminated   “Pivdenzakhidshlyakhbud              5              6
 )             ”
               Contract      3     (Part1)
               (terminated)
 3             LLC “Road Building UAH               206,285,338.3 206,285,338.3
               “Altcom”                             2              2
               Contract 3 (Part1)
 4             JOCA       Ingenieria     y UAH      74,813,967.21 1,123,107.75
 (terminated   Construcciones, S. A.
 )
 4             ONUR               Taahhut UAH      135,872,108.6    173,314,253.1
               Tasimacilik ve Ticaret              6                0
               Limited Sirketi
               Contract 4 (Part1)
 5             ONUR               Taahhut UAH      412,339,086.8    481,140,943.3
               Tasimacilik ve Ticaret              0                9
               Limited Sirketi
               Contract 5 (Part1)
 6             LLC “Road Building UAH              33,631,656.70    33,872,253,9
               “Altcom”
               Contract 6 (Part1)
 1             High-Point Rendel Lots 1- USD       2,222,080.00     2,673,993.00
               2 (Part 1)
               JV Safege / IRD            USD      1,992,900.00     2,761,403.00
               High-Point Rendel Lots 5- GBP       499,630.00       618,805.43
               7 (Part 1)                 EUR      601,530.00       876,689.96
               Part 2. Road Safety Improvement
 1             OJSC “Pivdenshlyakhbud” UAH         112,086,891.6    132,537,329.5
               Contract 1 (Part2)                  5                7

                                           46
2   OJSC “Pivdenshlyakhbud”      UAH   51,800,774.43   37,118,422.32
    Contract 2 (Part2)
3   PJSC       “MOSTOBUD”        UAH   6,116,305.78    6,138,362.57
    Contract 3 (Part2)
4   PJSC       “MOSTOBUD”        UAH   7,899,592.00    8,297,129.16
    Contract 4 (Part2)
5   OJSC                         UAH   72,927,922.87   76,031,190.12
    “Pivdenshlyakhbud”
    Contract 5 (Part2)
1   Egis              BCEOM      EUR   430.220,00      755,901.31
    International                USD   454,880.00      570,328.48
2   AMSS-Centar za motorna       EUR   22,500.00       22,500.00
    vozila
    Part 3. Capacity Building
1   High-Point Rendel (Part 3)   GBP   515,406.00      1,199,476.00
                                 EUR   376,715.00      949,035.00




                                 47
Table 2. Results of the monitoring


Arrangements for results monitoring

 Project             outcome Baseline YR    YR     YR 3    YR 4   YR 5   YR 6
 indicators                     (2007) 1    2      2011    2012   2013   2014
                                       2009 2010
 Improvement in the riding
 quality along the section
 between Boryspil and
 Lubny of the M03 road
 Riding quality in 2007 and
 2011 have been measured
 by      bumpometers         in
 compliance with the GOST
 218-02070915-102-2003
 and     then     IRI     was
 calculated. In 2012 IRI has
 been measured directly by
 the laser profile recorder.
 Target value                   IRI>5              IRI<3          IRI<2
 Actual value                                      2,87           1,4   1,16
 Increase in road safety
 towards EU level (fatalities
 per 10,000 vehicles)
 Source: Accidents database
 of the State Traffic Police,
 shared with DerzhdorNDI
 and Ukravtodor.
 Target value                   8                  7              4
 Actual value                                      5              3      1
 Intermediate        outcome
 indicators
 Reduction of the number of
 crashes between Boryspil
 and Lubny
 Source: Accidents database
 of the State Traffic Police,
 shared with DerzhdorNDI
 and Ukravtodor.
 Target value                   248                180            107
 Actual value                                      179            83     10
 The number of black spots
 areas along the main
 networks has been reduced

                                      48
Initial list of 110 Black
Spots have been proposed
by Ukravtodor and agreed
by the World Bank.
However, procurement of
such kind of works was
unsuccessful due to weak
interest     of    qualified
contractors. Most of Black
Spots have been excluded
from the Project.
Target value                    110                 80           0
Actual value                                        110          99      99
Length of the M03 road
upgraded
Target value                    0     0        20   40     80    120
Actual value                    0     0        0    49,2   100,4 113,4   113,4
Increase in the number of
staff trained in road
management               and
operations
Number        of     people,
involved in educational
activities under the Project.
Target value                    0     20       40   70     90    100
Actual value                    0     0        43   72     99    119     119
Launching of a pilot
performance-based road
contract
Target value                    0     0        0    1      1     1       1
Actual value                    0     0        0    0      0     1       1




                                          49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                             50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents
• Project Concept Note (PCN), Ukraine, Roads and Safety Improvement Project, December 1,
   2006
• Project Information Document (PID), Concept Stage, Report No.AB2719, November 17,
   2006
• Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), Concept Stage, Report No.AC2643, August 30,
   2007
• Minutes – Project Concept Stage Review Meeting- Ukraine, Roads and Safety Project,
   December 26, 2006
• Evaluation Report “Roads and Safety Improvement Project” (PHRD Grant), March 27, 2007
• Minutes - Quality Enhancement Review (QER) Meeting, Ukraine, Roads and Safety
   Improvement Project, October 25, 2007.
• Minutes - Decision Package Review Meeting for Ukraine, Roads and Safety Improvement
   Project, P100580. December 6, 2007
• Project Information Document (PID), Appraisal Stage, Report No.AB3477, January 7, 2008.
• Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), Appraisal Stage, Report No.AC3281, January 7,
   2008
• Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of USD 400 million to the
   Ukraine for a Roads and Safety Improvement Project, March 12, 2009
• Loan Agreement Roads and Safety Improvement Project, between the Ukraine and
   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, April 21, 2009
• Ukraine- Roads and Safety Improvement Project: restructuring: Main report, and Data sheet,
   July 19, 2011
• Ukraine- Roads and Safety Improvement Project: restructuring: Main report, and Data sheet,
   December 18, 2013

Mission Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status Reports
• Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
   Report 1, June 10, 2009.
• Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
   Report 2, February 25, 2010
• Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
   Report 3, November 8, 2010
• Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
   Report 4, June 13, 2011
• Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
   Report 5, January 11, 2012
• Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
   Report 6, October 27, 2012




                                             51
•   Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
    Report 7, January 1, 2013
•   Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
    Report 8, September 3, 2013
•   Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
    Report 9, March 9, 2014
•   Ukraine – Roads and Safety Improvement Project: P100580 - Implementation Status Results
    Report 10, October 8, 2014

Other Documents and Reports
• Ukraine - Mitigation Plan and Monitoring Plan for Road Safety Improvement Project:
   environmental assessment November 11, 2007
• Ukraine - Roads and Safety Improvement Project: land acquisition framework November 20,
   2007
• Country Partnership Strategy for Ukraine


Guidelines
• Implementation Completion Report Guidelines, OPCS, Aug 2006, last updated July 22, 2014
• Guidelines for Reviewing World Bank Implementation Completion and Results Reports, a
   Manual for Evaluators, Independent Evaluation Group, last updated Nov 12, 2013




                                            52
