       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020001


1. Project Data



  Project ID                                            Project Name
  P100580                                               ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT

  Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
  Ukraine                                               Transport & ICT



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-76770                                            31-Dec-2012                                                            500,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  07-Apr-2009                                           30-Nov-2014

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                          400,000,000.00                                                            0.00

  Revised Commitment                                           380,351,122.80                                                            0.00

  Actual                                                       380,351,122.80                                                            0.00




 Sector(s)
 Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(99%):Public administration- Transportation(1%)

 Theme(s)
 Trade facilitation and market access(46%):Infrastructure services for private sector development(46%):Injuries and non-communicable
 diseases(8%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                           ICR Review Coordinator            Group
 Fang Xu                            Victoria Alexeeva                     Christopher David Nelson          IEGPS1




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
   The project development objective as stated in the project Loan Agreement is to improve the condition and quality of sections of the M-03
   Road, and to increase safety on roads ( Loan Agreement page 5 and Project Appraisal Document page 5).




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



     No



c.   Components
     Road Rehabilitation of about 120 kilometer section (Borispil-Lubny) of the Kyiv-Kharkiv-Dovzhansky highway (M-03) (estimated cost
     US$298.5 million, actual cost: US$344 million). This component supported the rehabilitation/ strengthening of about 120 km section of the M-
     03 highway, including safety measures for the vehicles (i.e. signaling, lighting in critical sections, crash barriers, etc.,) and for local
     inhabitants (i.e. pedestrian crossings, parking, and special facilities).
     Road safety improvement (estimated cost US$99.0 million, actual cost: US$33.6 million). The component was to finance about 110 black
     spots on public roads including safety measures for vehicles and local inhabitants such as vertical and horizontal signaling, reflectors (cats’
     eyes), rumble strips, and modern crash barriers on the most critical points on public roads.
     Capacity Building (estimated cost US$1.5 million, actual cost: US$1.4 million). This component would finance the advisory services,
     training and equipment to enhance road management according to international practice.
     The project was restructured four times:
     The first restructuring occurred on July 19, 2011. The changes included reassigning resources from component 2 to component 1 to finance
     additional 20km road rehabilitation and reduced the number of “black spot” to be improved from 110 to 25 as a result of the lower than
     expected interest from the construction industry to execute the road safety “black spot” works under the project Component 2. The targets of
     some intermediate outcome indicators were changed as well at this restructuring.
     The second restructuring was approved on October 24, 2012 to extend the project closing date to December 31, 2013 to enable the
     completion of civil works awarded after the first restructuring.
     The third restructuring was on December 18, 2013 to extend the closing date from December 31, 2013 to September 30, 2014. The main
     objective of this restructuring was to allow for the completion of the 32 km long rehabilitation and upgrading contract on the M03 road under
     the Project’s first component as the progress of this contract did not advance as expected because of the financial solvency issues of the
     contractor.
     The fourth restructuring was on September 29, 2014 to extend the closing date to November 30, 2014 to finalize the execution of the road
     rehabilitation and upgrading contract on M-03. The main reason for the last two extension was the bankrupt of a contractor for this specific
     civil work on M-03.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Cost: the original estimated project cost was $500 million. The total actual cost was US$80 million less than planned mainly due to the
     reduction in the number of black spots to be improved under component 2 (US$19.6 million), the cost saving on road rehabilitation work
     under component 1, and about $60 million less Value Added Tax payment from the Government.
     Financing: At closing, US$ 19.6 million remain undisbursed. There was an outstanding balance of US$ 176,360.40 on the Designated
     Account. The grace period for payments was extended to allow for additional disbursements
     Borrower Contribution: The original contribution from the borrower was US$100 million for project activities related Value Added Tax. The
     actual contribution from the borrower was US$41.3 million.
     Dates: The project was extended for a total of 23 months, from January 1, 2013 to November 30, 2014.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     This Road Rehabilitation and Safety project was the Bank’s first project in the transport sector in Ukraine. The project development
     objectives were relevant to the country’s circumstances and development priorities at appraisal stage. The Country Partnership Strategy
     (CPS) for Ukraine (FY07-11), proposed a two-pillar framework of support with the first pillar aiming at improving Ukraine’s competitiveness
     through investments in public sector infrastructure (in particular transport and energy efficiency).
     The PDO remains closely aligned with the CPS for the Ukraine for FY12-16, which has one of its outcomes as improved road connectivity
     and safety. The Government had set the objective of halving the accident rate by 2010 as part of their quest to achieve EU levels of road
     safety. It is worth to mention that the Second Road Rehabilitation and Safety had the same development objectives as the first one. These
     two projects would provide continuous contribution to the country priority.



     Original Rating
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The project’s intervention had infrastructure improvement in a key corridor and public roads with special focus on incorporating safety features
       into the civil works, which were highly relevant to the project development objective of improving road condition and quality and increasing road
       safety. The activities supported by the third component focused on road assets management including mitigating the risks associated to lack
       of maintenance, these activities were not directly associated to the achievement of the PDO, but would contribute to the sustainability of the
       project development outcomes.
       It is noted both by this review and by the ICR that institutional strengthening measures, road safety regulations and enforcement and road user
       behavior change are critical for road safety improvement, however, the project’s investment in these areas was very limited. The ICR (page 7)
       explained that the importance of engaging the borrower in those areas were well noted by the project team at preparation stage, but at that
       time, the Government was reluctant to use loan proceeds for institutional capacity activities and the implementing agency was not mandated to
       implement road safety campaigns to address high risk road user behavior. With such a design, the project’s contribution to the road safety
       improvement at the national level would be limited and positive road safety results may not be sustainable. These limitations were being
       addressed by the following projects by including more activities on institutional strengthening and road user behavior change.



       Original Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Original Objective
     Improved condition and quality of sections along the M-03 highway.

    Original Narrative
    Main outputs under the project included:•       150km road section on M-03 highway was rehabilitated with good quality, this was 30 km
    more than originally planned. •     11 as against originally planned 110 black spots were improved. •     Bidding Documents for Pilot
    Output Performance Road Contract were prepared and successfully bid. Outcome: The road rehabilitation and upgrade of M-03 highway
    from a two-lane road (one way each direction) into a four lane carriageway for most of the alignment with higher standard directly led to the
    improved condition and quality of these sections along the M-03 highway. The road condition measured by the International Road
    Roughness Index (IRI) on these road sections was reduced to 1.16 at project closure from 5 or more prior to the project.


    Original Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Original Objective
     Increase road safety.

    Original Narrative
    The road upgrade on the M-03 highway directly contributed to the reduced number of crashes between Boryspil and Lubny, from 248 per
    year before the project to 10 per year at project closing. The International Road Assessment carried out as part of the activities of the road
    safety component, showed that the works performed under the road safety component (component 2) were of good standard and had a
    positive impact in the improvement of safety in the roads. While the project intervention had positive impact on road safety improvement at
    the project area, it has limited impact on road safety improvement at national level because of very little project investment on road safety
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



 policy, regulation, enforcement and no intervention on road users behavior change. The statistics of the World Health Organization showed
 a sharp decrease in the number of fatalities per 100,000 in population in Ukraine between 2007 and 2009. The annual fatalities per 10,000
 vehicles also declined to 1 at national level at project closing. But those were more a result of the adoption of more stringent EU regulations
 rather than the result of the project intervention.


 Original Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

At project appraisal stage, cost benefit analysis was carried out for the road rehabilitation component, which was about 75% of the project cost.
The main benefits were the saving of vehicle operating cost and the saving from improved road safety on M-03 highway. The US$298.5 million
investment yielded an Economic Internal Rate of Return 22%. The savings in vehicle operating costs contributing about 50 percent of total
benefits, and those from the avoidance of crashes another 40 percent (PAD, Annex 9).
At project closing, ex-post cost benefit analysis was conducted for the same road rehabilitation component which comprised about 82.5% of the
actual total project cost. As the unit cost for the road rehabilitation works was lower, the traffic volume was slightly higher and the road condition
as measured by IRI was better than the original estimate, the actual EIRR of the road rehabilitation and upgrade intervention was 28%, which
is higher than what was estimated at the appraisal stage (22 percent).
This review noted that the actual unit cost for black spot elimination was much higher than the original estimated ( $33 million for 11 black spots
elimination vs. $99 million for 110 black spots elimination). The team clarified that the actual intervention on the corridor with black spots was
more comprehensive after the project restructuring and that may explain why the unit cost seems to be much higher.
The project ERR is satisfactory; in terms of cost effectiveness, a number of activities/ outputs were not completed as planned under Component
2 by project closure. There was also a 23-month delay in project completion. The overall project efficiency is assessed as substantial



Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                               75.00
 Appraisal                                                                 22.00
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

                                                                                                               82.50
 ICR Estimate                                                              28.00
                                                                                                               Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project objectives were highly relevant to the country priority and the implementation of the project activities were intended to directly lead
to the achievement of the first sub-objective though the project’s design could not ensure the achievement of the second sub-objective of
improving the road safety at the national level. At project closing, the first sub-objective was substantially achieved and the road safety
objective was modestly achieved. The project efficiency was overall substantial. The project outcome is assessed as being moderately
satisfactory because of the moderate shortcomings with the project efficacy. Despite a Level 2 restructuring that included minor changes to the
key associated outcome targets, IEG has chosen not to undertake a Split evaluation as the changes did not make a material difference to the
achievement of the project against the PDO.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The main risk to the development outcome is the insufficient funding for road maintenance. The ICR (page 20) commended that the road
maintenance was mostly carried out in house which usually was more costly. With the project’s assistance, the first performance based
contract for maintenance was awarded and is expected to be the first step for improved management of maintenance. The ICR also stated
that the Government of Ukraine was contemplating advancing the decentralization agenda including introducing private participation in the road
sector to increase funding sources for routine and periodic maintenance, and improve the quality assurance processes. If successfully
implemented, these initiatives would contribute to the improved road maintenance and sustainable development outcome. However, at current
moment, the road maintenance remained to be an issue as there was little progress from the government side in assuring enough resources for
the operation and maintenance of the road sector especially when the country is now faced with serious economic and security
challenges as its conflict with Russia remains unresolved. The overall risk to development outcome is assessed as being high

a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       High


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
           The project was prepared based on strong and comprehensive analytical work on Ukraine transport sector carried out during 2005 and
           2006 (ICR page 5). At project preparation stage, the Bank team secured a grant of USD$700,000 to finance the capacity building of
           Ukravtodor as the implementing agency and the preparation of project civil work activity related documents such as feasibility studies,
           initial environmental and social assessments, engineering, design, and bidding documents. These helped ensure the project quality and
           the readiness for implementation.

           The quality at entry could have been improved in three areas: 1) the insufficiency of the institutional capacity component which was noted
           at the preparation stage, but the client was reluctant to borrow to finance advisory services. As such, the project’s contribution to the road
           safety improvement at the national level was limited;2) The second sub-objective of improving road safety at the national level rather than
           at the project area was beyond the reach of the project given the limited amount of the project resources and the geographical coverage
           of the project, the project development objective could have been better phrased. 3) There were some shortcomings with the M&E design
           (more details refer to the M&E section).


     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
            The Bank team regularly carried out supervision missions twice a year to visit the project site to check the quality of the civil works and to
            work with the clients in person to resolve the issues that the project had encountered. The team was responsive to clients’ requests and
            engaged with the client during the project implementation period. The ICR (page 22) noted that after the second restructuring, in 2012,
            the Bank’s supervision of the project progress was affected by the political situation in the Eastern and Southern part of the country.
     The bank team could have done a better job by updating the project development objectives and the project M&E framework when it turned out
     that this project would have limited impact on the road safety improvement at the national level especially when the “black spot” treatment
     component was reduced after the first restructuring.


     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
         The ICR (page 22) noted that the Government was committed to the project throughout the project cycle despite the political and
         economic challenges that the country experienced during the project implementation. The government’s commitment was
         demonstrated by its compliance with all legal covenants and ensuring the compliance with the Bank safeguards policy. However, the
         Government was inconsistent in providing the counterpart funds for the Value Add Tax (VAT) payment; the late payment of VAT
         compounded with the contractors’ financial and cash flow issues negatively affected the project progress. Ultimately, the project was
         extended several times in order to allow for enough time to complete all works under the project.


   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
         The implementing agency refers to Ukravtodor, the single implementing entity responsible for the project implementation. The
         implementing agency managed to deliver the large amount of civil works with good quality. The specific issues (ICR, page 22) that the
         agency had in implementing the project included: slow processing and late submission of documentation to the Bank for action which
         affected the implementation progress, examples included a number of no-objections request to the Bank after actions were taken and
         very late requests for extension of closing dates; low interest in implementing the “soft” component such as capacity building
         activities; and delays in the civil works implementation.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
         The M&E design included two PDO indicators to measure the achievement of two project development objectives. The M&E
        framework also had intermediate outcome indicators and output indicators to measure the project’s achievement and progress. At
        outcome level, the indicator on road safety (fatalities per 10,000 vehicles) was defined at national level rather than at the project area
        was too broad for the project intervention. The IRI is a good indicator for measuring the road condition, but the M&E framework could
        be improved by including more indicators to measure the improved road quality and condition.



b. M&E Implementation
           The ICR (page 13) noted the implementing agency submitted detailed, periodic implementation reports, however, those reports were
        more output orientated by focusing on the project outputs and progress of contracts execution and expenditures than outcome orientated
        by monitoring progress toward the project’s end results. The reliability of the road accident statistics was also a concern especially when
        the information was not regularly collected.



c. M&E Utilization
        Since, the M&E information was more output focus, the utilization of M&E to monitor and assess the project outcome was limited.


   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
           Environment: The Project was an Environmental Category B (partial Assessment) Project, the World Bank Environment
           Assessment Policy OP/BP 4.01 was triggered. At project preparation stage, the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
           prepared which contained summaries of the mitigation plan. A detailed monitoring program to validate the effectiveness of the
           mitigating measures was included in the EMP. A corridor-specific Environmental Assessment, documenting baseline conditions and
           environmental risks was prepared and two Environmental Impact Assessment were developed based on Ukrainian legislation
           covering two regions in Ukraine (Kyiv and Poltava Regions). In addition, stakeholders’ consultation was conducted and the
           suggestions from the local communities were incorporated into the EMP ( PAD page 20). The mitigation measures specified in the
           EMP together with the suggestions from the local communities were reflected in the bidding documents and engineering design for
           the project civil works. The ICR (page 14) reported that throughout the project, Environmental Assessment ratings were highly
           satisfactory (ICR page 14).

           Social: The road rehabilitation and upgrade of road section on M-03 highway did not involve involuntary resettlement, the black spot
           elimination would involve land acquisition and resettlement. The Bank Involuntary Resettlement Policy OP/BP 4.12 was triggered. At
           project preparation stage, the number of people to be affected was not clear, hence, a draft Land Acquisition and Resettlement
           Framework (LARF) was prepared by Ukravtodor and was made public. The ICR (page 14) reported that when the actual civil works
           started, given the significantly reduced scope of work performed under the black spot elimination activity, minor relocation of
           businesses around the project area was satisfactorily performed in accordance with the RPF and specific Resettlement Action Plan.
           The ICR (page 14) reported that the involuntary resettlement has been rated Highly Satisfactory throughout most of the life of the
           project.


b. Fiduciary Compliance
           Procurement: The project procurement was managed by the Project Implementation Unit with a small unit staffed with procurement
           specialists. The project procurement was mainly carried out through International Competitive Bids, leading to cost savings which allowed
           more civil works to be performed under the project. There were occasions that the preparation of procurement related documentation was
           slow, in some cases no-objections were requested after activities were carried out. Nevertheless, the project procurement management
           was rated as satisfactory throughout the project. No mis-procurement was reported by the ICR (page 15).

           Financial Management: The Financial Management (FM) Assessment completed in December 2008 concluded that the project FM
           capacity was sufficiently developed and the project satisfied the minimal financial requirements. At least nine measures were put in place
           to mitigate the risk of misuse of Bank funds (PAD, page 16). Proper training was provided to the relevant staff, and proper internal
           controls were applied for the project. During project implementation, the financial reports and audits were presented to the Bank on time
           and with an acceptable quality. However, there were delays in the implementation of an automated accounting system. The implementing
           agency, Ukrdorinvest, eventually, adopted an automated accounting system. Throughout the project implementation period, the project
           financial management was rated as Moderately Satisfactory or above. No ineligible expenditure was reported by the ICR(page 15)



c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
  N/A


d. Other
   ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               ---
                                                                                                                  The high economic and security
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                       High                                  challenges that the country is now
                                                                                                                  faced with as a result of the on-
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        ROADS & SAFETY IMPROVEMENT(P100580)



                                                                                                                  going military conflict with Russia.

Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                           ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

       The main lessons generated by the ICR generated are summarized below:
       1. An integrated road safety approach would improve the road safety more effectively. Investments in infrastructure together with
       substantial measures to strengthen institutions and enforcement as well as change road user behaviors would be more effective in
       improving the road safety than the infrastructure investment only.
       2. The Bank should consider financing 100 percent of project cost where the country macroeconomic risk was identified as high or
       substantial and the government budget capacity was limited, so as to avoid the situation that the counterpart funding could not be provided
       in a timely manner, resulting in delays in project implementation.
       3. Consultations with stakeholders during the design phase could contribute to the improved design of civil works and the compliance with
       safeguard policies. For this specific project, consultation with the local communities was carried out both at the engineering design stage
       and during the implementation stage, the feedbacks from the local communities were reflected into the engineering design, by doing so, the
       design was improved and the compliance with safeguard policies was enhanced.



14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

       This ICR was well written. It is concise with clear story line. The ICR was prepared with deep understanding of the sectoral issue and good
       project evaluation knowledge. This ICR could benefit from providing more information on the project development objective of “improved
       condition and quality on the section of M-03 highway” besides providing the International Roughness Index information. By doing so, the
       achievement of the project development objective could be more substantiated.


a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
