Document of                         '        'I 
FILECOPY                   The World Bank                    E               J
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1876-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 15, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
CURRENCY UNIT
Kenya Shilling (KSh)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1 = KSh 9.66
KSh 1 = SDR 0.10
Because the Kenyan shilling is tied to SDR, the US$/KSh
exchange rate is subject to change. Calculations in this
report are at a conversion rate of US$ 1 = KSh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC        -       Agricultural Finance Corporation
CLSMB      -       Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
CSFC       -       Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation
HCDA       -       Horticultural Crops Development Authority
KCNFC      -       Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives
MCD        -       Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOA        -       Ministry of Agriculture
MPB        -       Maize and Produce Board
SFCF       -       Subsistence Farmer Credit Fund



FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
$10 million credit a'nd $10 million loan to the Republic of Kenya to help
finance an Integrated Agricultural Development Project. The proposed credit
would be on standard IDA terms and the loan would be on standard TW terms
of 25 years including 7 years grace with interest at 4.85 percent per annum.
About $11.0 million of the proceeds would be relent to the Cereals and Sugar
Finance Corporation (CSFC) for 20 years including 5 years of grace with interest
at 5 percent. The CSFC would onlend to the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) and the Cooperative Bank for 2 years at 5-1/2 percent. AFC and the
Cooperative Bank would onlend to final beneficiaries at 11 percent per annum.
The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) has approved a loan
to the Republic of Kenya for $5 million equivalent for 25 years including
five years grace, at an interest of 4 percent per annum to support the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade: Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. Subsequently-a report on an agricul-
tural sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973) was
distributed on March 13, 1974. The accelerated world Inflation, including
the increase in oil prices, had a serious impact on the Kenyan economy.
In response, the Government in 1975 formulated an action program to
restructure the economy. We have had extensive discussions with the
Government about this restructuring program in the context of our program
loan negotiations and 'in coordination with the IMF Staff.
3.        In order-to monitor progress in implementing the action program
and discuss specific policies needed in its context-especially in agricul-
ture, manufacturing and government finance an economic updating mission
visited Kenya in the spring of 1976. Country Data Sheets are attached
as Annex I.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Restructuring Program
4.        In February 1975, the Government formulated an action program
(Sessiotnal Paper No. 4 of 1975 on Economic Prospects and Policies) in order
to adjiust the development objectives and policies under the 1974-78 Develop-
ment Plan to the more serious balance of payments constraint.    The overall
growthi rate target liad to be reduced from 7.4 to 6% per annum. The basic
objective of the Government's action program is to restructure the economy
as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum economic development in the
future under much more stringent balance of payments conditions.   The strategy
is to restrain imports in a way that has a minimum impact on production in
the next few years and to direct more ptoduction into exports.    It wlll
therefore be necessary to compress public and private consumption and to
channel investments into the most productive and quick yielding uses, in
particular into appropriate import substitution and export promotion activities.
In both activities the agricultural sector will have a major role to
play; by further improvements to its'performance it will also have to
absorb more labor and maintain incomes in a period of possible slowdown
of urban employment. Manufacturing, which will possibly become the most
dynamic sector in the long run, faces a particularly difficult adjustment-
process in the next few years. It will have to improve its resource
utilization and reduce its heavy import-dependence in favor of more domestic,
resource-based production and exports.
5.        The action program relies mainly on global monetary and fiscal
policies reinforced by agricultural pricing policies and some specific
administrative measures to implement the restructuring strategy. Not only
is the overall money supply growth limited by direct restriction on credit
expansion, but the Government is also directing credit specifically into
agriculture, manufacturing, export business and tourism. On the fiscal
policy side, Kenya's already good tax performance as well as the measures
introduced in 1973 and 1974 to make the system more progressive does not
leave much room for substantial tax increases. The Government nevertheless
intends to raise some taxes on non-essential domestic and imported products
and to further improve tax administration and revenue collection.    Some
other envisaged tax measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax
and increased urban property tax) seek to promote equity as well as revenue
increases. The discussion continues with the other Partner States in the
East African Community about a modification of the common external tariff
towards more uniform rates.
6.        The Government's strategy also aims at holding the domestic rate
of inflation well below that abroad, so as to help bring about import substi-
tution and export promotion by price differentials, this hardship will be dis'tri-
buted between income groups in such a way that the lowest income groups receive
full compensation for cost of living increases, while better-off members of



-3-
society are made to bear a proportionately larger share of the burden by
partial compensation or no compensation at all.
7.        A revised three.year budget for FY76-78 is part of the action
provram; it aimed at. reducing the growth of government consumption,
promoting exports, increasing production of agricultural commodities for
impo,rt substitution and use of more labor-intensive techniques.
Recurrent expenditure growth in real terms was to be reduced to 6% from the
11% projected in the 1974-78 Development Plan and development expenditure
growth rate included in the Development Budget was set at 7 - 8% as
against 12%. This required the politically difficult decision to bring
the rapidly accelerating recurrent expenditure for education under control.
The Government decided to allow only 7% annual increase, freezing education's
share of recurrent expenditure at 29%. In the Development Budget, the share
of agricultural and water development was increased from 22 to 35% while
that of road and building construction was brought down from 22 to 18%;
more6ver, a significant shift away from trunk roads to secondary and
labor-intensive construction of rural access roads was incorporated
within the road construction program. In addition to these domestic
measures, the Government was seeking to accelerate disbursements under
existing foreign financing commitments and to obtain additional commitments,
including quickly disbursing assistance, in order to maintain some momentum
of growth while the restructuring policy was taking effect.
Present Economic Situation
8.        After a period of steady growth of GDP averaging a remarkable 6.2%
per year, Kenya's economy is now'growing at,a far slower pace.  GDP increased
by 3.6% in 1974 and probably leses than 2% in 1975. The disappointing perfor-
mance of agriculture, still the most important economic sector, explains
part of this slowdown, and this in turn was strongly influenced by continuous
unfavorable weather conditions. Thus, notwithistanding welcome producer
price fncrIa!eq in January 1975 for the main crops w~hich provided adequate
liicentives to :roducers, Kenya saw a very uneven and on balance disappointing
performance in agriculture. In addition to improved weather conditions,
the sector's recovery will require intensified policy measures to'stimulate
agriculturb including maintenance of adequate price incentives and
improved support services. The simultaneous slowdown in manufacturing
growth (6% instead of 8% before) was linked, first, to actual domestic and
foreign demand slumps and, second, entrepreneurs' pessimistic outlook for
market improvements. The Government's restrictive credit and import policies
led especially to a drop in construction output. Ilowever, the private
services sector has so far slowed down less than other sectors, with real
earnings in tourism being maintained. Lastly, the Government sector is
growing at a rate somewhat above that of the economy as a whole. Inflation is
now at high levels for Kenya: 15% in 1974 and 20%'in 1975. Further price
increases are expected in 1976, following the October 1975 devaluation of 14%.



-4-
9.        The overall deficit in the balance of payplents in 1974 was $84
million. In 1975 the deficit was $55 million. IMF assistance cushioned the
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves to a large extent ($39 million in 1974,
$45 million in 1975), and Kenya moreover received extraordinary support from
various donors, including a $30 million IBRD Program Loan. Nevertheless
Kenya's reserves at the end of 1975 were at $101 million, a precarious level
equivalent to only about 5 week's imports ($167 million at the 1974 import
level). T'herefore, Kenya remains dependent on balance of payments support
in the near future, particularly since resumption of import growth cannot
be matched immediately by export earnings. The 14% devaluation of the
Kenya shilling in October 1975 is an important step towards restoring balance
of payments equilibrium in the medium term. The terms of trade index fell
less steeply in 1975 than in the crisis year 1974 (19%) but still deteriorated
by 6%. As a result, real per capita income in 1975 has dropped to 6% below
its 1973 level. A general reversal of price movements in favor of Kenya is
not yet in sight-notwithstanding coffee price increases which will ease the
situation in 1976.
10.      Government reventue as a percentage of GDP rose from 23% to 28%
between 1973 and 1975, but failed to keep in step with expenditures which
went tup fronm 29% to 35% of GDP.  There was a more rapid growth in development
than in recurrent expenditure with more than 30% of total expenditure now
devoted to development expenditure. The Government managed to some extent
to attract additional foreign financing to offset shortfalls in revenue growth,
but had to revert (contrary to past practice) to substantial amounts of domestic
credit to cover the unusually large budget deficits.
Policy Issues
11.       The balance of payments constraint remains the most serious economic
problem. The Government will therefore have to pursue its restructuring
policies even more vigorously than in 1975. It will have to gear budgetary
policies (both growth and composition of expenditures) towards the stated
objectives and redirect pot only the agricultural but also the industrial
sector by its pricing, credit and import policies. This should be combined,
to the extent possible, with measures to help the economy recover from the
low growth of 1974 and 1975. The immediate concern for output and employment
should, however, not be at the expense of creating strong inflationary
pressures in the economy which could set off a wage-price spiral.
12.      One of the main elements of the restructuring policy is to improve
even furthler on the respectable past growth performance (6% per year) in
the agricultural sector.  The Government is applying several policies to
enhance agricultural growth. First, it aims at providing adequate price
incentives to farmers; annual price reviews. for the major crops take
place but price announcements are not always simultaneous for all products



-5-
and may be too late to affect planting decisions. In this connection,
under the proposed Integrated Agricultural Development Project, the
Covernment has agreed to publish controlled prices not later than
December 15 of each year and has also given an undertaking to set up
a unit in the Ministry of Agriculture-to formulate recomjnendations on
absolute and relative agricultural prices. The Government also seeks
eo channel a larger proportion of development expenditures into
Rrojects in the agricultural and other directly productive sectors.
in the past, the bottleneck was a shortage of well-prepared
projects. There is now a sound project pipeline but the bottleneck now
tmerges at the financing and to some extent the implementation stages. Con-
siderable amounts of foreign financing for agricultural projects are being
committed, but it proves difficult to disburse these funds rapi4ly. Strength-
ening the Government's implementation capacity over a wide range of agri-
cultural services will take time. The Government -is training more Kenyan
agricultural'officials and is attempting to improve the quality of extension
officers who provide the most essential link to the farmer himself. The
proposed Integrated Agricultural Development Project will go some way toward
achieving higher quality and better coverage of extension services.
13.      The manufacturing sector had been growing rapidly at 8% per annum
until 1975, mainly through import substitution within the domestic market
and exports to the East African Community (EAC) market under the protection of
FAC import duties and national controls. In the process, the medium to
large scale enterprises have become dependent on imported capital goods,
spare parts and raw materials. However, Tanzania and Uganda no longer
offer good market prospects because of economic slowdown and/or the estab-
lisfihent of parallel national industries, while the easier import--substitution
opportunities within Kenya have been exhausted. In order to retain its (lynamism,
nianufactiariiig has to be geared towards exports outsidle the EAC market an.l en-
couraged to use more domestic resources inter alia tlhrough promotion of more
appropriate technology and smaller-scale industry. A Bank mission visitedl Kenya
in April 1976 to assist in the preparation of a project in this field, and tile
International Finance Corporation Is considering sulport to small scale business.
14.       The restructuring program thus requires that use of local resources
be made financially more attractive vis-a-vis imported inputs and exports
more remunerative vis-a-vis domestic sales. The Government has in fact,
already taken two important steps in this direction: an export compensation
payment of 10% on export value of processed goods to offset the sales tax of
10% and the 14% devaluation of the Kenya shilling (together with the other
EAC currencies). Their combined effect was to increase exporters' prices
by 25%-in Kenya currency. There has been less progress so far in lowering
import duties for raw materials, final consumer goods and capital goods and
making them more uniform., This should preferably be done by a series of
adjustments under the EAC treaty and requires consent by EAC partners.



-6-
15.      At the time of preparation of the FY1976-78 forward butdget,   deficit
financing was not seen as a serious problem, provided that expenditures could
be kept under control and foreign financing would be fortlhcoming.   Since
then, the final outcome of FY1975 yielded a large overall budget deficit
and the outlook for FY1976 is worse. FY1976 revenue is suffering from the
economic recession which has affected both income tax and customs duties
receipts. Moreover, both recurrent and development expenditure are higher
than estimated. The Government is concerned about the financial squeeze
In the budget and is in the process of tightening FY1976 expenditure ceilings
as well as adjusting its targets for the forward budget now rolled over to
FY1977-FY1979 with a view to curbing expenditure in non-directly productive
activities and allotting adequate development as well, as recurrent funds to
high priority projects without creating undue inflationary pressures. With
recovery of economic activity in the near future revenue will hopeftully grow
more rapidly again. Nevertheless, contrary to previous expectations, re-
course to domestic borrowing on a larger scale is necessary to support the
development budget.
16.      In the past the Kenya Covernment has foll]owed a conservative policy
wi.th regard to external borrowing.  Since Independence Kenya has been in-
creasing new commitments at a rate of about 8.5% per year, or somewhat less
than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current prices. As
a result, Kenya's debt service burden is sti.ll comparatively light (3% of
exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East African Community debt) and
the country could,if necessary,resort to moderate borrowing on commercial
terms during the next few difficult years without impairing long-term credit-
worthiness. About 14% of total external debt is now held by IBRD (Bank
Group: 30%), but because Bank Group lending has only recently become a sig-
nificant proportion of Kenya's debt, debt service to IBRD in 1974 was,still
only about 15% of all debt service payments (Bank Group: 17%). In addition
to its own external public debt, Kenya is also jointly responsible together
with the other two Partner States for debts incurred by the East African
Community and its institutions, which amount to some $244.8 million (including
undisbursed). Allowing for a nominal one third of service payments on these
debts, Kenya's total debt service ratio is about 4%.
17.       In spite of the much greater need for external capital now facing
the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her external
debt management, although the Government is making greater use of suppliers'
or export credits on favorable terms to finance some of the larger projects
now ready for implementation. Assuming a slower growth rate ahead during
the restructuring period, Kenya's external debt will have to increase
considerably over the next decade if the expected balance of payments gap
is to be filled.   While Kenya's economic   performance    certainly



-7-.
justifies substantial amounts of concessionary financing, including Third
Window Fund and IDA credits; it can be expected that the terms of borrowing
would be on the average less favorable than Kenya has enjoyed in the past.
However, since export earnings will increase during the period as well,
barring major unforseen developments in Kenya's terms of trade, the debt
service ratio would probably not exceed 16% by the end of the 1970s. By
that time it is estimated that IBRD might hold about 22% (Bank Group: 28%)
of total disbursed debt and receive 15% (Bank Group: 16%) of debt service
payments. Beyond 1980 creditworthiness will depend on GQvernment's ability
to take action in the near future to increase the productivity of invest-
ments, to reduce the import propensity and to increase exports. Temporarily,
higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be followed by a fall
in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade if the Government's
action program is successful. However, in spite of the considerable efforts
of the Government to improve domestic resource mobilization, limitation on
domestic resources are so severe that it will be necessary to finance from
external resources a substantial part of the costs of the program, including
some local costs.
18.       Kenya is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms on the basis of the following criteria:
(a) Per capita income
In 1972, Kenya's GNP per capita was $170.
(b) Performance
The Government's development effort has been considerable
as evident from the recent high rates of domestic savings
and gross investments resulting in an average annual growth
rate of about 6%. An increasing portion of the Government's
investment program is directed towards the rural poor.
(c) Ability to pay
In view of its impressive economic management and the
relatively modest debt burden, Kenya is creditworthy
for Bank lending, but a substantial part of future
borrowing should continue to be on concessionary terms.
(d) Access to alternative sources of finance
IKenya's need for external financial assistance will increase
dramatically in the medium term. The Government has, therefore,



-8-
intensified its efforts to obtain financial support on
concessionary terms.   While numerous donors have been
active in Kenya for many years, their support has not
increased appreciably. Kenya, therefore is obliged to
borrow more o0k commercial terms in order to carry on its
restrueturing program and development target.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDINC TO KENYA
Genera]l Lending Policy
19.       'flie fundamental aim of the Bank Group's lending program to Kenya
is Lo support projects that simultaneously increase resource based pro-
diiction while promoting incomes and employment.  While in the past our
cnpLhasls was on the development of infrastructure, we are now moving towards
directly productive projects that provide support for the lower-income
groups of the population and are concentrating on projects in rural areas
of Kenya.  Ihe Bank Group has become a major source of external finance for
Kenya. However, despite our increased level of lending in recent years,
Lhe capital constraints are high and we are expanding our functions to
include promotion of co-financing both with export/suppliers' credit
[nstltutions and bilateral and multilateral aid agencies.
Ongolng Projects
'0.       Kenya  has to date received 19 Bank loans and 18 IDA credits
amountintg to $332.9 million and $145.7 million, respectively, supporting
34 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of
ten loanis totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the develop-
ment of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance
for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East
African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African Corpo-
rations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and brief progress reports
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The progress on Kenya's ongoing projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory but with a few projects particularly in the agriculture,
transport and population sectors behind schedule. One reason for this is
the manpower constraints in certain fields requiring time consuming re-
cruitment from abroad. Together with greater efforts in attracting qualified



-9-
expertise, and the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill such
positions, the problems should eventually be alleviated. In addition, Bank
staff is assisting through frequent supervision and contacts with Government
officials.
Project Under Preparation
22.       A number of projects are now under preparation, the majority of
which aim at supporting agricultural production and rural development. An
irrigation project in the Lower Tana River Basin has been appraised, and
two projects (one for expansion of sugar production and one for another
credit tranche to the Agricultural Finance Corporation) are now being appraised.
A wildlife and tourism project is being presented to the Executive Directors
at the same time as this project.
23.       Concurrently with efforts to support agricultural production, we
foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure. A
rural access road project is being submitted to the Executive Directors at the
same time as the proposed project and a rural water supply scheme is under
preparation. While the major emphasis will continue to be on agriculture and
the development of the rural economy, the Bank recognizes the need for continued
support to infrastructure and services necessary for sustained growth of the
economy as a whole. In an effort to strengthen Kenya's industrial development,
particularly in resource-based manufacturing with emphasis on intermediate
technology, we expect to support a small-scale business project and continue
supporting the Industrial Development Bank.
East African Community
24.       The East African Community Corporations have experienced diffi-
culties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East African Coopera-
tion is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation
agreements in existence among sovereign states in the developing world, in
practice, the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties
have been compounded by the balance of payments constraints which all three
Partner States experienced.
25.       Of the Community Corporations,    the East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays
by the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on
the interstate transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential
spare parts and supplies with the result that' its operational capacity has



-10-
deteriorated considerably. In July 1974, the Partner States agreed with
Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate the
EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital. However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a
result, disbursements under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III)
were suspended in February 1975. A further meeting was held in July 1975
at which an agreement was again reached on formula for sharing of debt
service payment by the Partner States, and suspension of the loan was
lifted.
26.       Tile Partner States recognized that because of their fundamental,
political and economic differences, a review of the 1967 Treaty was called
for. For this purpose a Commission has been established consisting of three
Cabinet level officials from each country, with Mr. Demas, President of
the Caribbean Development Bank, as Chairman. This Commission is expected to
submit its reports by the end of 1976. While there is hope that the Commis-
sion may deal with the structural differences in the long run, the Corpora-
tions are still facing a difficult period.
27.       Since February 1976   the relationship between the Partner States has
further deteriorated. Arrangements for debt service payments were
again disrupted resulting in long delay in making debt service payments
to the Bank. Disbursements to the East African Railways Corporation,
the East African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts and Telecommu-
nications Corporation and the East African Development Bank were suspended
by the Bank on April 28, 1976. As the Executive Directors were informed
on May 25, 1976 (SecM76-383), a mission visited East Africa in May to
discuss with the Presidents and Finance Ministers the debt service
problems which endangered both the Bank's operations in East Africa
and the credit standing of the Community and the Partner States (being
jointly and severally responsible).     An Agreement  was reached
to ensure remittances from the Regional Offices of the Corporations to
complete all overdue payments and these were made by June 1, 1976. Disbure-
ments on the Community loans were, therefore, resumed with effect from
June 1.  Regarding future debt service payments, the    Agreement
(i) specifies fixed contributions by each Partner State to meet
external debt obligations, (ii) commits the Government to ensure
remittances from the Regional Offices of the Corporations (iii)
establishes a mechanism and procedure for timely payments, and
(iv) provides automatic foreign exchange cover for debt service
remittances.



IFC
28.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies
in Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley TEk*tiles, Ltd.).
As of April 30, 1976, IFC held for its own account $25.9 million compris-
ing $18.4 million of loans and $7.5 million of equity.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
29.       Agriculture remains the most important sector of Kenya's economy.
It provides the livelihood of some 11 million people (over 90% of the total
population), generates over 60% of. foreign exchange earnings and comprises
over 30% of GDP. The average annual per capita income of those living in
rural areas is estimated at far below the country-wide average of $170
(1973), probably around $40.
30.       Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their
families, makes up over 50 percent of total agricultural output. Maize
is the major subsistence crop, although it is produced on a commercial
basis as well. Other subsistence crops include millet, cassava, potatoes,
plantains and bananas. Commercial production for export focuses on
coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum and wattle. However, cashew nuts, pine-
apples, castor beans, coconuts and wool are becoming increasingly important.
Wheat, rice, sugar and cotton are produced largely as cash crops, but
are almost totally consumed within the country. While meat and dairy
products continue to be significant in subsistence agriculture, a growing
proportion of the livestock produced is marketed domestically or exported.
31.       Agricultural development is controlled by an elaborate network
of government organizations and semi-public bodies. The Ministry of Agri-
culture is primarily concerned with setting overall policy including
pricing policy, and providing general support services (such as research,
extension and training). It also exercises control over a wide range of
specialized production and marketing boards and agencies. Other ministries,
including Lands and Settlement, Cooperatives and Social Services, Tourism
and Wildlife, Natural Resources, and Works, are responsible for other
services in the agricultural sector.



-12-
32.       Institutions  providing agricultural credit reflect the historical
pattern of development in the sector with the needs of large farms and estates
being provided by commercial banks, and the progressive commercial small
farmers by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC). Specific cash crop
agencies such as Kenya Tea Development Authority, the Pyrethrum Board, the
Coffee Board, the Maize and Produce Marketing Board, the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board and the Horticultural Crops Development Authority support both
small, progressive and large farmers. In recent years, Kenya has encouraged
the development of the cooperative movement partly to ensure credit avail-
ability to those ineligible for credit through the traditional channels
and an increasing volume of credit is now being channeled from the
Cooperative Bank to unions, primary societies and cooperatives.
33.       The importance of the cooperative movement has increased
considerably over the past decade. There are now about 800 active
cooperative societies servicing rural areas. To support these societies,
about 40 district cooperative unions have been established which provide
centralized services including accounting, bookkeeping, transport,
storage, credit and savings facilities. The Department of Cooperative
Development exercises supervision and control, provides guidance, and
promotes the development of cooperatives. The Commission for Cooperative
Development has been given wide powers to regulate the cooperatives
including powers to amalgamate uneconomic ones. The cooperative movement
in Kenya has received valuable technical assistance from a consortium of
Scandinavian countries, which started in 1967, with the objective of deve-
loping and consolidating the cooperative movement. This assistance is
scheduled to terminate in 1977, but the Government has requested an
extension for another few years to ensure smooth operation of the system.
34.       Impressive progress has been made over the past decade, especially
in the introduction of cash crops into the smallholder sector. Well under half
of 1.2 million smallholders can now be characterized as relatively progressive
farmers. However, while growing at 4.3% a year in real terms, agriculture
is falling behind other sectors. Agricultural development needs to be
accelerated to help alleviate three particularly sensitive and critical
problems: poverty, unemployment and a deteriorating balance of payments.
While comparative statistics per capita income indicate that Kenya has
developed further than many of her neighbors, the poor rural population is
ten times larger than the well-off urban population. The average rural
income has been estimated as being about $40 per head and, even within the



-13-
rural sector, wide variances exist. Despite the progress in the past few
years the majority of rural dwellers live at subsistence levels, and have
limited access to health care and education. Rapid population growth
exacerbates the problem. The labor force is increasing beyond Kenya's
ability to absorb it; migration to Nairobi and other large towns is accel-
erating, and the cost of providing basic social services is growing at
alarming rates. Finally, recent adverse trends in world markets, coupled
with the increased cost of oil and fertilizers, have raised the costs of
imported farm inputs and reduced profitability. In light of this situation,
it is apparent that the small farm sector must be developed not only to
increase production levels and improve the balance of payments, but also to
reduce unemployment levels and stem the migration to cities and towns.
Small Farm Sector
35.       Stimulating the large farm sector to increase output is relatively
simple. Throughout the large farm areas input supply channels are already
in place, as are marketing channels.   Credit is easily obtainable and the
Ministry of Agriculture offers these farmers relatively good research and
extension support. Machinery contractors provide land preparation and
harvesting services. For smallholders, however, the situation is much more
complex. Fewer than 20,000 of the 1.2 million smallholders in Kenya have
access to credit through commercial channels with which to purchase inputs and input
supply is uneven in small-farm areas. While nearly 550,000 smallholders are affiliated
with cooperatives, most of these cooperatives have traditionally concentrated
on marketing of single crops mainly for exports. The extension service, which
employs over 6,300 officers, has not been developed for smallholder food crop
production. Finally, plans and programs are lacking due to shortages of
management skills. Left to himself the small, less progressive farmer faces
overwhelming problems in attempting to enter the cash crop economy in any
substantial way. To obtain credit he must deal with institutions which
demand proof of his production ability and may also require his title deed
as security -- an unacceptable risk for a smallholder whose only means of
livelihood is the small plot of land hp owns; in many cases women head the
households with the husband living elsewhere having the title deed. Even if
he has access to credit, inputs are not readily accessible. Because estab-
lished institutions do not cater to hi-s reeds, he has problems transporting
and disposing of his produce. Finally, if he works more acres than his family
labor can cover, he has problems paying for labor during planting and harvest
time.
The Program
36.      In its endeavor to broaden its agricultural prodtteticn base, to reach
the smallholder previously excluded from credit and to bring about a more equi-
table distribution of development to rural areas, the Kenya Government is
introducing its Integrated Agricultural Development Program. Except for the
pilot crop production credit scheme initiated with assistance from the Nordic
technical assistance and the USAID Sector Loan of 1975, this program represents
a departure from previous programs in that it aims at small farmers throughout
the country as the main target group. Compared with past efforts in this
sector, the Program would have three important innovative features:



-14-
(a) it would seek to promote comprehensive farm develop-
ment in contrast to the single crop approach which has
characterized past development. While this has come to be
accepted as the central objective in its own right, its
adoption is made necessary by the absence of any predominant
crop or farming activity in many areas which have hitherto
been left out of the development process.
(b) It would strengthen support services in extension
and training, input supply, marketing and credit at the
central, provincial, district and parastatal level to
achieve a well coordinated program for the neglected
smallholders.
(c) Finally, it would decentralize project planning and
implementation to the district level. Each district would
prepare annual work plans which would outline proposals for
number of crops to be produced, amount of credit required,
number of participating farmers, and organization of
support services. From the district level the work plans
will be forwarded to the provincial headquarter and from
there to the national level for approval.
37.       The formulation of this program draws heavily on the Special Rural
Development Program (SRDP), initiated in 1967, to test rural development
strategies at district levels. Six experimental areas were chosen and a
variety of agricultural pilot projects was introduced including credit to
farmers and traders, stock farm inputs, livestock marketing, extension
staff training and rural access roads. The SRDP promoted the establishment
of District Development Committees which have now become a prominent
feature in Kenya's development strategy to achieve participation and
coordination at all levels.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       It is envisaged that the Integrated Agricultural Development
Program, as described above, will eventually cover the whole country. As a
first phase some 14 districts have been selected in the Central, Eastern,
Nyanza and Western provinces. Within these districts, some 80 locations
would be selected based on criteria such as potential for development,
availability of essential infrastructure and institutional capability.
The first phase comprises the proposed project which was prepared
with assistance from the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa.
A mission visited Kenya in June/July 1975 and its report entitled "Kenya -
Appraisal of the Integrated Agricultural Development Project" (Report No.
1002a-KE)dated May 15, 1976 is being distributed separately to the Executive



-15-
Directors. A Loan/Credit and Project Summary is given in Annex. !II. Because
of the many institutions involved in the Project, negotiations were held in
Nairobi in March 1976. Mr. Gathiuni, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Agriculture led the Government negotiating team.
Project Description
39.        The Project, which would constitute part of a new long-term program
for the development of smallholder agriculture, would, over five years, pro-
mote the adoption of a comprehensive farming system through the provision of
inputs and the strengthening of extension services and institutions to meet
the needs and support required for a wide range of crop and livestock acti-
vities. While a precise definition of its scope and activities would be
the subject of Work Plans to be agreed annually, the Project is expected to
encourage the production of maize, beans, cotton, potatoes, passion fruit,
oil seeds, meat and milk by about 70,000 small farmers operating some 56,000
holdings. Specifically the Project would provide for: (a) the establishment
of a Program Unit, (b) staff and support services for extension, (c) cooperative
staffing for input supply, (d) staff and storage facilities for marketing,
(e) staff and support for credit institutions, (f) farm credit, (g) livestock
production and health, and (h) project monitoring and evaluation, training
and technical assistance.
(a) Program Unit
The Program Unit would be established to coordinate and
evaluate all the activities of the Program. To this end the
Project would provide vehicles, supporting services and staf-
fing for a new Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The
Unit would be staffed in Nairobi by a Head of Program, a
Deputy Head of Program, a Financial Controller, an Evaluation
Officer and one Project Liaison Officer in each of the five
main divisions of MOA. Field Staff of the Program Unit would
consist of provincial and district Project Coordinators to
provide coordination at the field level of Project activities
of the ministries involved, the AFC, Maize and Produce Board
and other Project institutions. The Head of Program, who
would report on technical matters to the Director of Agri-
culture and on policy matters to the Principal Secretary of
Agriculture, has already been appointed in consultation with
the ks±sociation.  Provincial and District Project Coordinators
would be appointed not later than June 1 preceding the initial
participation of their areas in project activities.
(b) Extension and Training
Because of the previous orientation of extension staff
toward the more progressive larger farms, the Project would
provide for retraining and upgrading of some 4500 extension
staff as well as for orientation courses in the Farm Training
Centers for new project farmers. To administer this program



-16-
the Project also provides for a farm management officer in
Nairobi and incremental vehicles, housing and support faci-
lities required for the extension services. In Kerya, a large
number of households are headed by women and while women in
Kenya are often doing the greater part of farming on small-
holdings, they have not received adequate farmer training.
The Government has, therefore, agreed to use its best efforts
to increase the number of female participants in courses
offered at the Farm Training Centers and will also attempt
to train more female extension workers (Section 3.05(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
(c) Distribution of Inputs
To expand the distribution of inputs such as fer-
tilizers, seeds, insecticides, etc. to the small farms, the
Project would strengthen the      transport and packaging capacity of
the Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives (KNFC) which would distri-
bute inputs to cooperative unions and through them to societies
and farmers. The Project would also provide for incremental
staff for KNFC as well as a senior officer in MOA to coordinate
the entire national supply of inputs between importers and
distributors.
(d) Staff and Storage Facilities for Marketing
The Maize and Produce Board (MPB), the national monopoly
buyer of most food crops surplus to subsistence needs, would be
strengthened through the provision of additional field staff,
as well as collection trucks, crop stores, crop driers, and funds to
help meet operating costs. The Horticultural Crop Development Authority
which markets potatoes would also be strengthened through the
provision of stores. In order to improve credit collection,
MPB, HCDA and other marketing agencies would appoint all parti-
cipating cooperative societies and unions as agents for the
purchase of all members' agricultural produce, and each society
and union would only buy produce from unregistered farmers
after it has first established that such farmers were not
indebted to another society or the Agricultural Finance Corpora-
tion (Section 3.06 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
(e) Smallholder Credit Institutions
The Project would provide      vehicles and office equipment
as well as incremental staff for the Cooperative Bank, the Ministry
of Cooperative Development which supervises all cooperative acti-
vities and, on an annually decreasing cost basis, managerial
staff for the few Project unions and societies which initially
cannot pay for these staff out of their own income.



- 17 -
(f) Farm Credit
The Project would provide credit to farmers on a revolving fund
basis for annual physical inputs to support production of such crop
as maize, cotton, groundnuts, passion fruit, potatoes, beans and
livestock. A total of about US$9.5 million equivalent would be
applied to fertilizers, fencing, seed, insecticides, spray pumps and
animal feed supplement. A constraint in many parts of the Project area
is lack of adequate funds for hiring labor to meet demand peaks, i.e.,
during land preparation and harvesting. Therefore, the estimated
incremental cost of on-farm hired labor of aobut US$9.1 million has
been included in the Project cost, and it is proposed to make up to
25% of farm loans available in cash in order to permit the farmer to pay
for hired labor. The rest of his loan will be in kind. Farmers would
normally pay 11% interest for credit. In order to meet the needs of
farmers who cannot provide the level of security currently demanded
under existing cooperative and AFC regulations, a Subsistence Farmers'
Credit Fund of US$0.6 million would be set aside for on-farm credit
to be loaned to subsistence farmers through the Cooperative Bank at
10% per annum; this amount may be increased subject to demand (Schedule
5 to draft Development Agreement).
(g) Livestock Production and Health
The Project would provide for an artificial insemination laboratory
and office, cattle dips, milk handling and cooling buildings, housing,
vehicles and equpment, as well as salaries for livestock field officers
and junior field staff, and incremental vehicle operating costs.
(h) Project Monitoring and Evaluation, Training
and Technical Assistance
For the purpose of monitoring and assessing detailed progress, the
Project would provide for the employment of an Evaluation Officer and
15 enumerators, as well as vehicles, equipment and support services. A
statistical survey expert would establish the initial methodology for
data collection and analysis. A complete staff complement to undertake
the evaluation would be appointed by October 1, 1976. These staff would
also provide an important input to the Work Plans.
The Government has satisfactory training schemes for most grades of
Project staff, but these need to be supplemented by more management-
oriented training such as is provided by the Management Training School in
Swaziland. Funds for fellowships have been included for this purpose. In
addition, the Project would provide for technical assistance to the cotton
industry. It would also strengthen the Management of the Cotton, Lint and
Seed Marketing Board by financing the highly specialized financial con-
troller, chief accountant and marketing officer posts. Appointments to
these posts would be made in consultation with the Association.



Project Costs and Financing
40.        Total Project cost is estimated at US$35.7 million, of which 34%
represents foreign exchange requirements.    This cost includes a 10% contin-
gency on fixed assets and a price contingency of 21% on total base cost, but
excludes duties and taxes, which are insignificant.
41.       The proposed IDA credit and Third Window loan would together meet
about 56% of total cost.   A US$5 million credit from the Arab Bank for African
Development (BADEA) would finance about 14% and the remainder would be met
by the Kenyan Government and local farmers. The Bank Group contribution
would finance about $11.1 million of foreign exchange cost and provide $8.9
million towards local costs. The high portion of local cost financing in
this project is justified in terms of Kenya's overall external resource
requirements (see para. 17), the low foreign exchange cost (34%), and the
special Bank Group interest in providing support to smallholder farmers and
the numerous institutions involved in this project.
42.        The proposed Credit and Loan would be made to the Republic of Kenya.
The Republic of Kenya would in turn establish a revolving fund of $14 million for
farmers credit in the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation, an institution
controlled by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, which provides short-term
loans to agricultural institutions. This Corporation, which would receive
funds at 5% for 20 years, would onlend funds to two institutions: the
Agricultural Finance Corporation and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya at 5½%
for two years. The Agricultural Finance Corporation would be onlending
directly to the farmers who can offer security; the Cooperative Bank of Kenya
would onlend to the Cooperative Unions and Societies who would lend to farmers.
The revolving funds for credit would be the subject of separate subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and the Cereals and Sugar Finance
Corporation and between this Corporation and the Cooperative Bank and Agri-
cultural Finance Corporation, respectively (Schedule 5 to draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       Orders exceeding US$100,000 each for fertilizers, vehicles,
machinery and equipment ($4.3 million) would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Orders would be
bulked whenever possible. Civil works which are scattered and too small to
attract international bidding and all goods costing less than $100,000 would
be procured on the basis of Government's procedures of competitive bidding
advertized locally. Contracts for items costing less than US$25,000 equivalent
would be awarded on the basis of competitive procedures as appropriate.
44.       Disbursements of funds from both the Bank loan and IDA credit would
be on the following basis:
(i) 100% of foreign exchange costs or 85% of total cost
of vehicles, machinery, equipment, fertilizers,
trellising wire, and technical assistance and studies;
(ii) 85% of civil works;



-19-
(iii) 80% of loan disbursement to farmers; and
(iv) 65% of fuel and oil.
Disbursements against civil works, vehicles, machinery, equipment and fer-
tilizers would be fully documented. Disbursement against all other costs
would be made against certificates of expendlture endorsed by the head of
the credit institutions and the Head of Program, the documentation for which
would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Government,
and would be available for inspection by the Bank during supervision. The
IDA credit would be disbursed first. The BADEA loan would finance the
livestock production and health component and staff salaries.
45.       The expenditures for the initial operations of the Project,
estimated at US$600,000 equivalent, would not be subject to the annual
work plan approval. For subsequent years, however, the Bank would deter-
mine the amount to be disbursed for each year in question on the basis of
agreed work plan (Section 3.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
It is recommended that retroactive financing of US$0.3 million be approved
to meet costs incurred after March 1, 1976 for fencing materials, staff,
equipment and other supporting services.
Accounts and Audit
46.       The Financial Controller in the Program Unit would establish and
maintain adequate books and records to accurately reflect the assets and
liabilities of the Project and the receipts and payments in respect of the
Project, in such a way as to enable identification of such assets, liabili-
ties, receipts and payments pertaining to the Project and not to other
activities of MOA. Similarly, all other institutions involved in the Pro-
ject would maintain books and records sufficient to facilitate identification
of all assets, liabilities, receipts and payments pertaining to the Project.
47.       Quarterly reports of the Project activities, achievements, and
problems would be prepared and forwarded to the Bank promptly, and annual
accounts of the Ministries and institutions referred to above including
CLSMB would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
would be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months following the year
to which they related.
Organization and Management
48.       The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
implementing the Project. However, under this overall direction, those
aspects of the Project involving the Cooperative-Bank, the Kenya National
Federation of Cooperatives, and Cooperative Unions and Societies would be
carried out by the Ministry of Cooperative Development. To ensure coordination
of activities at the highest level, an Interministerial Coordinating Committee,
under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, would be established. This Committee would meet from time to time
to approve annual work plans, review project progress and resolve problems.



-20-
The Interministerial Comrittee would be established as of Srptemher 30, 1976
(Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       At field level the district is the basic management unit and a
Committee, comprised of the District Agricultural Officer and other officers
involved with agricultural production, extension and credit, would approve
district work plans or. an annual basis, review progress, and receive monthly
and quarterly project reports from the District Project Coordinator. The
work plan would be prepared by the local staff on the basis of criteria of
potential for development and availability of necessary infrastructure and
institutions. Provincial Commissioners, District Commissioners, Chiefs and
Sub-Chiefs would be closely associated with the Project and would be encouraged
to employ their considerable local influence in the furtherance of project
objectives.
50.       The farmers are expected to sell their cash and surplus crops to
their Cooperative Society in the first instance. The Cooperative Society
would turn over the produce to the various institutions handling the produce.
For example, the Maize and Produce Board would handle maize, beans, and
groundnuts, while the Horticultural Crop Development Authority would market
potatoes and passion fruit, and the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board, the
cotton lint and seed, etc. To increase the capacity of these institutions to
provide better service to small farmers a substantial portion of costs,
including the cost of 860 additional staff, would be included in the Project.
While most of the institutions are managed reasonably well, the Cotton Lint
aric Seed Management Board has suffered from a series of management and
financial problems dating back several years. Cotton is not only the
traditional cash crop in about half of the area but would serve as an "anchor"
crop providing security for lending institutions. Efficient management of
the Cotton Board is of considerable importance for achieving project objectives.
It would therefore be a condition of effectiveness that the Government would
have appointed a financial controller, marketing officers and chief account-
ant. The Government has also agreed to ensure that the Cotton Board observe
sound commercial practices including public auctions of cotton lint in which
exporters and local consumers will compete freely (Schedule 6 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement). To achieve proper incentives for the farmers
the Government has also agreed to review agricultural prices and
publish them by December 15 each year in time for the planting season (Section
3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Justification
51.       The Project would provide intensive extension service and improve
distribution of farm inputs on credit to about 70,000 farmers, most of whom
have not previously benefitted from such institutional assistance. The
Project would result in incremental production of 81,000 tons of maize,
6,000 tons of beans, 36,000 tons of potatoes, 56,000 tons of passion fruit,
2,000 tons of cotton, 6,000 tons of groundnuts, 7,000 tons of beef and 34
million litres of milk. Sufficient demand is anticipated for all these
output. The total farm (cash and subsistence) income of a typical high
zone farm is expected to increase from $150 to $236 and that of a low zone farm
from $95 to $137 because of the Project.



- 21 -
52.        The internal economic rate of return of the Project would be 37%
over a 20-year period. A 10% reduction of incremental output would reduce
the IER to 18%.
53.       Project benefits go beyond quantifiable increases in production.
The Project would represent the first major effort in Kenya to benefit small
farmers producing mainly food crops. It would revitalize the institutions
supplying services to these farmers and focus attention directly on their
problems. The extension service would be directed to the small farmers,
credit would be made available to many farmers for the first time and
marketing institutions would be strengthened to cater to the small farmers.
Assuming successful implementation of this first phase project, an instrument
would have been forged for teaching small-scale farmers throughout the
country. These benefits are expected to accrue without detriment to the
environment.
54.       Apart from risks associated with rainfall and other climatic
conditions, other risks that would affect the Project include the possibility
that project institutions might fail to coordinate properly all activities
and hence not reach the expected number of farmers with services and inputs.
To minimize the project risks, implementation would be flexible by the work
plan mechanism to be reviewed by the Bank annually and a number of assurances
affecting the operations of farmers have been obtained during negotiations.
Another risk is that farmers may adopt the recommended input packages less
rapidly than anticipated owing to the relatively high cost of inputs and the
associated financial risk in case of crop failure. However, the expected
promotion efforts of intensified and strengthened extension services and
annual review of farmgate prices should demonstrate the benefits to be derived
from adoption.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       Drafts of a Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, a Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Bank, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the draft resolutions approving the
proposed Credit and Loan are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special features in the proposed Development Credit Agreement
are referred to in paragraphs 39(b), 39(d), 39(f). 42, 45, 48 and 50
of this report. The fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and BADEA and the execution of the
Relending Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the taking of actions
to strengthen the Cotton Lint and Seee Marketing Board would be additional
conditions of effectiveness (Section 5.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement).



-22-
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit and loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank and
that the proposed loan would comply with the established criteria for Third
Window Loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 15 , 1976



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page I of 4 Pages
KENYA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KR2)                      ------------------------
---------------                        ~~~~~~KENYA                             REFERENCE CCUN TRIES (1970)
TOTAL        5 82. 6                                        ROST RECENT
ARABLE          .                          19 60      1970    ESTIMATE            TANZAkNIA       KOREA (SOUTH) MAURITIUSo
GNP PER CAPI1TA CUSS)                         900    1.0     .0        70.0                110.0"       27.0        28.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (RIOTYR. MILLION)                 8.3         11.2        12.5                 12.9         !I.4          0.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                            14.0        19.0         21.0                 14.0       319.0        408.0
PER SQUARE ARM. ARABLE LAND                 .            ..                            147.0       7 49.o       7 6 7.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE 919ITH RATE PER TMOUSAND           50.0a _b     4 8.0        4 7.0                4 7. 0/a    2 8.0        2 6.0
CRUDE OEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            20. 0/a      14. C        17.0                 22.0~        8.0            0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)                .  .       ./            .160.0                                     " . 570
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)           45. 0/a.b    48. 0        5 0.0                 3 .0       AS.0         63.0
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE.                               3. 4         3 .4                 3 .2        2.6          2 .4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (XI
TO TAL                                     3.0         3. 1         3 .2                 3 .0        2 .4         2. 4
URaAN                                       ..          .0/A         .                   5.0 /a       6 .0         1 .6
U P AAN PO0P UL A T ION (I0 OF TO0T AL)      8.0 /a      1 0. 0                            6.0 /a      4 1.0        4 4.0
A GE ST RU CT U RE (P ERC E N T
0 TO 14 YEARS                           46.0 'I      48.:4          .                 44 .4X/      4 2.1        4 1.9
15 TO 64 TEARS                           49.           AC8..                            50.0  a     54.6A        5 4.5
A, YEARS AND OVER                          4.8  a      3 .6          .                   2.:6/        3 .3        3.6
AGE OEPENOEN4CT RATIO                        1 .0        11      . I                       0 .9         0 .8         0. 8
ECO-NORIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.-3 /d      1.1I/c                           I . 2/a      1.4          1 .5/
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                .            ..
USERS I! OF MARRIED WOM4EN)                  ...                                           .
EMPLOY RENT
TOTAL LABO09 FORCE CTHOUSANO)            3 300.0      51 00 . 0/d  54CC.O              56 00.:0 /a bIO4CC.0       25C.0
LAROR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CI)                ..         o.o 7d      a6.0                 91.0 /ab     ! 1 .O      3 0.0
UNEMPLOYED I! OF LABOR FORCE)                 .                         ..                              50 /a       1 7. 0
INCOME DTSTRIBUTION
I OF PQIVATE INCOME REC*D 8T-
H I GHE ST  5!t OF POPULATION               .         2  2                              3 30.5  c   20.1I
HIGHEST 201 OF POPULATION                   .         52 .A          .                 63.3         47.
LJMEST   20 1 OF POPULATION                 ..          .9/i                             2   3  ~     61
LJwEST   4D! OF POPULATION                  ..        11.17          .Y8                       ~    16.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND 3WNERSHIP
O OWNED AT TOP 10! OF OWNERS                   ...                                           .         28. 0
I OWNED ATY SRMALL EST IZ0! I-NE RS           .                         ..                              2. C
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPJLATION PER PHYSICIAN4               I I 000   /a A 7830.0 /f   655C.0 /            215 70 .0 /b  22 10. 0/b  4 09 0.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            1610.0       1470.c 7F         ..'89.0 7F                  17E0.0 7~~    800.0
POPULATION -ER HOSPITAL BED                810.0Cj     810.0            ..oo0.0 7U                   1920.        250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMENTS)            103.0        101.0        102.0                 73.0       103.0        104.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                   75 .0       71I. 0       6 7. 0               4 3 .0      605.0        50.0
-or WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             32 .0        29.0.                             2 3 .0      1 9. 0       1 9. 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                    ...                                           .
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            49.0        67.0            .                 37.0        104.0       105.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           30I          .                                  0         41.               /
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                     0         90            .30                            41000 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  13. 0       13.0         1 3.0c               103.0        1 2.0       0 4. 0
VOCATION4AL ENROLLMENT
CO OF SECONDARY)                          12 0If       2. 0         2.0 /b               4 .0        15.0          1 .0
ADULT L ITERACY RAT E 1!)                     .          30.0        35.0                    .         9 2. 0 L
HOUSING
PESOS    E   ROOM (AVERAGE)                 2 . 5/a       .            ..                              2.7?
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (7.)                            ....3 0. 0/a.d                                           80.0 /d
A CCE SS TO ELE CTRI CIT Y
0! OF ALL DWELLINGS)                         ...                                           .          0. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECtRICITY C!)                          ......                                                    0. 0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)               9 .0        4 8. 0      4 1 .0                1 1. 0     1 26. 0      1 02.D
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                8.0          9.0          9.0                  3.0         2.0         15.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                50.c         68. 0       7 8 .0               29.0 /b     3 09. 0      2 71.0
NEWSPRINT CRCG/YR PER CAP)                   0.4          0.5          0.6                 0.1-         3.4          C."
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ARNEUI
VOTES
Vss other-wise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, wid for MOst Recent Estimate to 1971-73.
Mauritius has been selected as an example of a predominantly agricultural econom, which is following some enlightened policies designed to diversify
production and promote accelerated industrielization.
KENA            1960  /a  l962i     /b  African population;      /c  Based an cotplete enumeratton of non-ALfrican population and of urban African population,
and on a 10 percent sam~ple of rural African population aged 0-14, 15-59 an~d 60 years and over, respectively;       /d  Ratio of
population under 15 and 60 and over to total labor fw~ce;       /e   Registered, not all practicing In the country; nursing personnel
includes aidwives anrl assistant midwives;      /f  Includes teacher training at the third level.
1Q70  /a  Registered only;        b  1962-691      /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;
fd   labor force age 15-59 years ;    /je Urban households;      /f   Registered, not all practicing in the country;           Includes
teacher trainting at the third leve .
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE   /a  .egistered, not all practicing in the country;       A   Including teacher training at the third level.
LALZLANL        1970  /a  1967;     /b  Tangaryika only;      /c  Households;      /d  Urban only.
KOREA ~SOLJTH)  1970  /a  Registered;     /b   Registered, not all practicing in the country;       Lc  Ton years and over;      /d  Water piped inside.
MAURITIUS       1970  /a  Ratio of population wnder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         b Zxcluding vocational education.
R8, February 26, 1976
DFNmTCIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
rti;dJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 ~~~~PM ~tinpr nsigtreon - Population divided by number cf practicing
lot 5-Tta    sura-ce area comprising land area and Inland "tatrs,                     aead      mlega      ate curses, "trained" or "certified'- nurses, and
=r e  Moot recent estimate of land area used temporarIly or perm,anently             auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation, pastures, nacket and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.             P2.    to    :     haital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
= e In  ublicand private general and specialized hospital and
t~r~11&   US!I- CRNP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-              rehabilitation centeral excluAm   nursfing hones and establishments, for
at   aecnversion method as World Rank Atlas (1972-74 basis),                  custodial and prevsntive care.
Pa aita esmLrofcalor ies     ll (o  euieet) - Computed from energy
via              taitc                                                           equivaenet of netfoo    sples availatble in country per capita per day;
PoLuiti:   wd-  milltion) - As of July first; if not available, average             available supplies oomprisee domestic production, impats less e,q,ots,
o! two end-year estimaes                                                               and chankges in stock; net supplies exclude andmal feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food processinig and losses In distribution; requirements
Populatio,nOdenit  -pr s9are k      - Mid-year population per square kilo-               were estimated by FAO based on pbyeiological needs for normal activity
etr .(0    etres )f total area.                                                      and health considering mnvironmental temperature, body weights, age and
koRAtiation densit.y _ per Square les of arable laund - Computed as above for            sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for wante at household
-rahie land oniy.                                                                      level.
Per capita sppl ofpoen          rams osr day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                         cptnesupyofoder day; net supply of food is defined an
E~~~~        or thousand - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                   above; requirements for all coutries established by USDA Economic
yr, population;, usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                   Research Seri-vces provide for a=minimum allowance of 60 grams of total
1975 for 4eveloping countries,                                                         proteSin per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of *4ich 10
Crde dahrate per thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                       greow. should be animal protein; these standards are-lower than those sf
popuation; usual     five-year averages ending i~ 1960, 1970 and 1975                  75 g-    af total soteti, ano 23 gra-o of animal protein as so average
for developing countries,                                                              for the world, proposeed by PAO in the Third World rood Survey.
Infat m al&t   rae  (/hoO- Inn,al deaths of infants under one year             Pe   aiapoei        upyfo        nimalgad    aulse - Protein supply of food
.bFiage;t         and ive birth.                                                        deriveT1rd fMa animals and Pulsea ngrm     e   day.
Lif  epcacatbirth (y) - Average number of years of life remain-                        Dahrate     ~t- e   a asI    - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-i
tgat brth; usually fvs-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                        years,tcbl        ti   is age group; suggested as an iLndicator of mal-
1975 for developing countries.                                                         nutrition.
OroI   rUro:unIorate - Average number of live daughters a woman waill
easr     or norm    reproductive period if ohs experiences pr~esent age             Education
speci-fic fertility rates; usually five-year averages endirg in 1960,                Adjuwste  enrolon    ato-oiMELyschool - Eu'ollnent of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                                percentage opimary scho-ol-age population; includes children aged
Population_ rowth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-                6-fl1 years but adjusted for different lsngths of primary education,
year population for 195u-W0, 19150-70, and 1960 to most recent year.                   for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
Popultiongrowthfrate (%) - grban - Computed like growth rate of total                    since som  pupils are below cr' above the official school age.
popuatin;  iffrent definitions of urban areas may affect compaa-                 Adlused enrollment ratio - secotndau     schol-Cmue        saoe      eod
bility of data among countries.                                                        areducation requires at les         ryas of approved primary Instruc-
tiRplon,o          otl   - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-                tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
Urbiindi1ailiia2oflurban areas may affect cormparabilitr of data                         pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
among countries.                                                                       excluded.
A%#~      ue Fret        - Children (0-14 years), sorking-age (15-64o years),          Years of schooling  rovded    , (frt and second levels) - Total years of
aiA ir.a      ye5ars and over) as percentages of mid-year population.               schooli.ng; at secodr    lee,vocationalL inatrwctlon may be partially
Age qedenz       at~io  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                or completely exccluded.
those of ages 15 Through 61.                                                         Vctoaemomnt(of s2Sgndar) - Vocational                   stitutions include
F, o(Il  Mndacy.rtio- Raqtio of population under 15 and 65 and over               teohoicaZ1,9in%Mtril e orther programsn ddch operate independently or
t. t e .  rfc       goup o    15-64 years.                                      as departmenta of secondary institutions.
vamily planningt - acceptors 9(cuulatilve, thou) - Cumulative number of               Adul 4ltrac       rate s) - Literate adults (ab..,. to read and write) as per-
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   centage of total adlt population aged 15 years and ovetr.
planning progran since inception.
Famiypl-anning-busers (% of married women) - Percentages of married                    Housin
wome  ofchid-barlng age (15-4a years) vho use birth-control de-                  llfoar         oo    aeie      Average number of persons per room in occupied
vices to all married women in same age goup,                                           cnetonel fllngs In urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
Emoloyms                                                        ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Occuied dwllng withutpiped water  )- Occupied conventional dwell-
Totl     lbo orc e ( thousand) - Economically active persons, includinginsiuraadrrl areas without imi4de or outside piped water
araLrre          adUWT-e but excludinLg housewives, students, etc.;                    facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                 sAcco  eltoe!st;icKA%qfralldwl.lin.zs )-Conventional dvellings with
labor forc  inagrnIculture 1%) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,'                  elcti!                      era as percent of total dwellings in urban
foety  unting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.                   and rural areaas.
Unww ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   -Unmloyed (orlbrfm)-UeI"dare, usually defined as per-  -Rural dwlig      onnected to electricity (%) - Computed as above for rural
sons wli ar    abl  and v  ing to take a job, out of a job on a given                  dwelsgsmonyo
day, remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable between coun-                   Coneumtion
tries dule to different definitions of umuqaloysd and source of data,                Ma-Alloyerefcecever                                       fr rdihbrad
e.g., employment office stctistics, sample sujrveys, compulsory unem-cat                     to genera   p    cpe   thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ployment insurance,                                                                    receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio asets mae
in effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most eoun-
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                     triee abolished licezuing.
kindl received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                  oammrcr            Rr thou po) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
VA% of populatton.                                                                     lesM          ih    esn,excludes ambulances, hearses awd military
Distribution of land. owne rship - percentages of land owned by wealthiest               ve   ics              _ rcp) - Annual consumption of Imdust.rial, co=nenr-
10% and poorest 10% of landE siners.                                                                        vaeeecrrt        in kilowatt bours per capital gan-
lealth and Nfttl.                                                  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ral3y based on produaction data, mithout al,lowance far. losases in grids
and Ruty item                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~but allowing for importa and expa'ts of electrioite,
ti                  a  - Population divided by number of practicing                 N!=int ik/       r  cg -) - Per cpits, annural omraumption in kilogra
phriin     qualfe cTrm a rmdical school at university level.                           est    ,9     MMdm t5    production plus not iqmprts of osvaprint.



K E Nl Y A
Annex I
E)2ONOMIC DEVElOMET     AA
(Amounts in millin     of US. dollars)Pae3o4Pae
Actual                   Iscy        ProJec ted       1964-    1974-     1975 -   1976 -    i9 7     1975     1981
1964 1T/ 1973 2 ~19742/         T7   197     6 -   1981      1972     1975      1976      1981
NATIONAL ACCOIWITS
At 1q73 Prices & Exchange Rates          A,erMge AnulGrowt         ae          Ac Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              t-,50-2,322         2,445       2,0       2,637    3,356       6C7      2.        54         .0      100.0     0.60.
Gains from Terms of Trade      )        10              - 113       - 175     - 144    - 210        -        -         -         ---                7.5     -7.0
GroSs Domestic In come              TTf0~     772       T   2       77=7      7Tmp3    F7T M       6.5     -.2        7.1       4.7     TITDO      =DDO   TDflO
Import (incl. NFPS)                   296       718       767         635       766      896       6.1   -17.2      20.6       3.2       30.9     32.9     28.6
Exports    1  (import capacity)      -3520      686       588         525       640      840       2.8    -10.7      21.9       5.6       29.5     25.2    26.8
Resource Gap                            54    _72        =T79        =TO      -T76      _56         -        -         -         -         F-7.4  T777     =18
Consumption Expenditures              838     1,686     1,810       1,866     1,933    2,351       6.6      1.1       3.6       4.0       72.6     80.2     74.7
Investment    "   (incl. stocks)      149       668       701         571       686      851      11.6    .18.7     20.4       4.4       28.8     24.5     27.1
Domestic Savings                       202      636       522         461       560      785       5.9    -11.7      21.5       7.0       27.4     19.8    25.0
National Savings                       211       511      462         429       519      718       5.0     -7.2      21.0       6.7       22.0     i8.4    22.8
MERCH{ANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Cu.rrent Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
1973     1974
Imports277                                                                                                                                         9-6
Capital goods             ~~~~~~~122.4  170.5  175.2       200.8277                                                                    1.
Int.ermediat.e goods (pex.lfu,ls)   173.2     214.2     27 2 .6     435.9431                                                                     2.
Fuels and related materials          41.3      474       6.         272106                                                                      21
of which: Petroleum               (41.3)    (47.4)    (67.0)     (227.2)                                                            (10.6)   (22.1)
Consumption goods                   105.8     128.1     117.6       161.9                                                              18.6     15.8
Total March. Imports (oif)          442.7     560.2     632.4     1,025.8                                                             100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products (pxpl. fuels)      144.7     135.8     256.2       291.5
Fuels and related materials          40.3      51.4      61.7       127 .7
of which:   Petroleum             (40.3)    (51.4)    (61.7)     (127.7)
Manufactuored goods                 103.6     112.6     150.1       172.3
Total March. Exports (fob)          288.6     299.8     468.0       591.5
Touriam and Border    Trade          25        76        70
Merchandise Trade Indices              1973      1974     1925       1981
Export Price Index                  100       130       138        221
Import Price Index                  100       161       181        267
Terms of Trade Index                100        81        76         83
Exports Volume Index                100       110        93        140
VALkiE ADDED B3Y SECTOR             Annual Data at 196        Prices andi Exchange Rates            Aveage Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
1964      1972       1973      1974 p/i6417                                 1972-1973    1973-74 1964    1972  1973   1974
Agriculture                         15 6      246       266        264                              5.8%          8.1%        -0.87.  23     20     20    20
Industry and Mining                 119       229       253        264                              8.57.        10.5%/        4.37.  20     21    22     20
Service                             400       7 2 2     774        816                              7.67.         7.27.        5.4/.  52 7   59    58     60
Total                               675     1,197     1,294      1,344                              7.4%          8.17.        3.97. 100    100   100    100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                 In current Prices and exchange rates
(Central GovernLment)                 64/65     71/72    72/73     73/74     74/75     75/76
Current Receipts                    138      398        419        493     669       711
current Expenditures                159      337        374        395     569      644
&dgetary Savings                   -21       61         45         98     100       67
Other Public Scctor
Espenditure in Development           38     145        173        191     246       381
budget
US $ million
CURPRENT EXPENDITUJRE DETAILS                    Actual        Prelim.    Ext.     Proj.        DETAIL ON                                At end 1q 5 /6 p and ED
As I    otal Currjent    eidTiEi           E75917Z             ,7/7     5   ~376=7        8   PUBLIC SECTOR                       First Plan      9 of Total
Education                        11           28       27        28        28      27         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                    (197h 1       19 77 / 78)
Other Social Services             8               1.'  I         I-        it       9         Social Sectors                           is,1           16
Agriculture                       9                     c.                           7        Agr-iculture                             274            22
Other E.coso-, Seroices          3                    11        12        13       15         Wa rr Developwent                                      13
Ad-isitr-tls     ,.nd Defess-    n           26       25        28        27       21         Industry and Mining                       42             3
Power                          ~~~~~~~78      6
Other   (inc. C.F. Expent.)     39            18      17        14        15       21         PowrasotndCmuicins221
Total Current E-penditures    T1                     T5 100    100       100Io    TO0         Other28                                                 22
Total Expenditures               US$   1,276 all       100%
SELECTED INDICATORS                            1965-1970     1975-1980       1981-1985          FINANCING
(Ca1eslated from 3-year averaged data)
Average   ICOR                                       3.3           4.7             3.3                Public Sector Savings               389           30
Import Elasticity                                  1.0           0.6             0.7                Program aid counterpart             347            27
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                     0.29           0.29           0.29                Foreign Project Aid                 540          -43
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.22           0.30           0.29                Total Financing           US$    1.276 mil.      100%.
LABOR FORCE AND                                     Total_Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (1971     -    Prices & Ext. Rates)
OUTIPUT PER WORKER                        In Millions          7. of Total                                      in U.S. Dollars           Percent -of Average
1971               1971                                               1971                        1971
Agriculture                                     4,647               86                                                109                          36
Industry                                          141                3                                             1,426                          475
Service                                           301                6                                             1.286                          429
Total                                           5,377              100-                                              300                          100
sot applic-ble            -  nil or negligible        1/ In 1967-69 prices and eachange rate.
not available           -    less than half the       2/ Revised figures.
smallest unit shown.     3/ Preliminary figures.                                                    June 1.5, 1976



08IANC03 OF FATh=t0, rUI2(   ~AL ASSICER AND DME                                            Pg   4 of   Tagee
(4mnoct. in giliten  a!of .dllr      at curret pricesd
A.tue.1  P-1..,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~Avg. Anima
19/8   1921 Actual        Prof ,c:ca'o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P--                                                        &-6,,t Rate.
IM___             17 , ~        fl          14           __          197_       [981                                             t4733.198
sPMou B&LSec Of nninns
34-ta (joel. VUS)                        '02        5m9          63           8           953           969       1.203       2,333                                              16.5
~~.ert.(flsi. 573) ~~~~~~~~~~525          659         360          74         1,192         1.1 04      1,399       2, 540                                             15.6
Factor Sss-t-s 0Nec                      -23        -25         -3~           I            0             o           e          131
26         58        -2..        ..           ....3        .....8      ....4h       ...173Q                                           17.
M t zm k~~~zl)               -75lI       -1r3-       -68-                                                                                                              7.5-0  -J ~ ~ hL .J2
Private Dirtect ieveeftnt                 59         "a          43           e9          126            64          63          71                                              6.6
Official Capital Gants.                                           it U         /                          Si  1        I/         1
Public 95.1 loan.
2Wabure men.                            30 3i      10 3        68 2'       61 21         o0           10n         L42         3 37                                            23.0
-ReDaymmuts                   ~~~~~-9 3/  -8 3/      -1I 3/      -13 3/       -12 3/         -20 3/      -27        -112                                             31 3
Net Mobortmesnts  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  'U ~~~~~~~21.0
U.. of DaG Facillliss-                                                  -                   39           45          44i         -
U.hr   eeCedc(Nat)                          -_-2                  6          1441                        -9           10
fs at  nr., (.)                         5           2         -5          -0           ( 
Ervare ted GalsJatec                      7/         -52          3        _____         (.A3          Al            .        .L.-
ActW 1
1970 1971 197,     193                      Vb"-          t-- D11b-s       283.2     3C7.5     347.4     400.9       455.8
Dm9A! emnv    ;& M     atusU3Ir              190       21           9f         93jtercet ccPublic Debt                                 11.5      12.l      14.5      16 1        16.7
Oflooial. Gravis & ETttst-lllce                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RepaYMents us publieIc , Dt  2.3  7.0  10.  12.7  1.
-1                         T.~~~~~~~Otal. Public Debt Sevc so      22.0      24.9      28.8        28.2
Public 561.1 fAtal                                           34.12                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  JWP Debt Ser-ia, (net) 
IDA                                     187          -          80                                   rts). Debt Se-U.c (netc)        -        --        -
Othe r Multilateral                      1.5        3.5          -           2 .1                  Buraden cc tepart Durrja  (%
O-Orveisan".                            10.5       40.4        20.1        55 2
Suppliers                                 1.1        7.3          -           -Public Debt seeeeec                                  '-0        . 9      4.6       4.3         3.0
NO1soi,al 26.ehitattaea                             2.5        23.3         lA6                      Total Debt Service ..                                -
Bonds                                                                                                TDSobtrectt Torst, Inc.        9.8,      9.'2      9.5      10.7,       19.4
-orI  -,r,  -sr,   '9'TID                   ~Aveage 'rel of Fob])     Debt
EXTERNAL DEIIT                     A ~~StuAl Debt Ooeslgad     e. 13                          Tht. as % Prior Year DOzc.     4.3       4.3       4.3       4.4         4.5
5Wrld                                                                   Perreect W                       urt. ac % Prior Tea, Da&L     2.7       2.8       3.4       3.5         4.8
IDA                                               74.6                    16.                        0565! Debt Dit & Stebu,-eed
Other 95a2itilact-e                                 2.8                     9.6                        c   so % ?Poblio Debt 340       1.9       3.8       8.9      13.43.
(lavrr.ents                                       252.0                   5ssj                                                                                      I sIPbi  etSriu 74 21 54 1.
Supplier.                                          24.7                    3.2                               % ulcDb         -9.76               210~.1
Flnsoctal I21.titutilne                            19.4                    4.3                       MA7 Debt Coat. & Disbursed
Bonds                                 3~~      ~       ~~~~~~0.0  6.6                     " a  % I9blic Debt 085         12.2      11.2      42.0      15.8        1*
Public Debts ne.l.                                                                                       es % r Public Debt Ser1cla   0.8        1.2       1.3       1.7         2.3
Octal Public 1482. Debt                           i-r                     120.
Other 9617 Debt.                                   38.0
Dhcrt-te-e DeSt (61.6. only). 
cat applicable                                                    Staff astluste               4/ included lerrrattra-,fc.-
cat -ciDable                                                   - dl ortneggible                2/  Secluded iL. Public 114L0 Leans
ra~t availabledi e rtoty l                                        lees than half ths           3/  So.o. -  Wce1d Ex-carcal  b SaSS  i.tiecic  (8/-Ys oclyl.
but jelided I,taal1eal.t =cit hbes 
J-n iS, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at April 30, 1976
Loan or
Credit #    Year    Borrower    Purpose                Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank  IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Six (6) loans and nine (9) credits,
fully disbursed                                       87.7  40.0
185        1970   Kenya        Education                      6.1        1.8
714        1970   NCC          Water Supply             8.3              1.5
224        1970   Kenya        Road Maintenance              12.6        2.5
276        1972   Kenya        Highways                      22.0        5.2
826        1972   Kenya        Nairobi Airport         29.0              4.9
344        1972   Kenya        Agricultural Credit            6.0        1.7
932        1973   Kenya        Highways                29.0             21.9
946        1973    IDB         DFC                      5.0              1.0
468        1974   Kenya        Population                    12.0       11.0
477        1974   Kenya        Livestock                     21.5       21.2
993        1974   Kenya        Tea Factories           10.4              8.8
1093        1975    Kenya       Group Farm Credit        7.5              7.5
537        1975   Kenya        Group Farm Credit              7.5        7.5
1105        1975    Kenya       Site and Service         8.0              8,0
543        1975   Kenya        Site and Service               8.0        7.8
565        1975    Kenya       Agriculture-Forestry          10.0        9.6
1132        1975   Kenya        Agriculture-Forestry    10.0              9.2 -
1133        1975   Kenya        Transportation-
Pipeline             20.0             19.9
1147        1975   TRDC         Hydroelectric Develop. 63.0              51.9
1148        1975    IDB         DFC                     10.0              9.8
1167        1975    Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply        35.0             35.0
1184        1975    Kenya       Education III           10.0             10.0
TOTAL                  332.9 145.7      257.7
of which has been
repaid             8.1    0.1
Total now outstanding 324.8 145.6
Amount sold     5..1
of which has
been repaid   4.4       .7
Total now held
by Bank & IDA          324.1 145.6
189.4  63.3       257.7
Total undisbursed
l/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $6.6 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at April 30, 1976:
Amount in US$ Million
Year             Obligor           Type of Business     Loan    Equity    Total
1968 &
1973      Kenya Hotel Properties     Hotels              5.2      2.7       5.9
1970 &
1974      Pan African Paper Mills    Pulp & Paper       11.9      5.7       17.6
1972       Tourism Promotion
Services                   Hotels             2.4       -         2.4
1975       Rift Valley Textiles,
Ltd.                       Textiles           6.3       2.8       9.1
Total Gross Commitments                25.8       9.2      35.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                       7.4      1.7       9.1
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                         18.4       7.5      25.9
Total Undisbursed                       9.0        .7       9.7



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Projects in Execution -
Credit No. 185-KE - Education: $61. million Credit of May 20,
1970; Effective Date: August 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31,
1977:
The project is practically completed; only one school, the Nyeri
Secondary Technical School is behind schedule. It is now under construction
and making satisfactory progress. Nearly all furniture and equipment have
been installed and are in use. Current estimates shows a modest cost
overrun of about US$0.5 million. The Closing Date was extended from
December 31, 1975 to December 31, 1977.
Loan No. 714-KE - Nairobi Water Supply Project: $8.4 million
Loan of December 11, 1970; Effective Date: March 26, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976:
Good progress was made on the main project items, and water was
delivered in Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. However, the Closing
Date was postponed to September 30, 1976, to enable completion of disburse-
ments for ancillary project components which are behind schedule and a
request for another extension of three months is expected. Costs are about
30 percent over the appraisal estimates, due mainly to local cost increases.
The Water and Sewerage Department has continuing problems attracting and
retaining staff for its etigineeuing and commercial sections. The financial
results of water operations have been generally satisfactory; the increased
project costs have been met from internal cash generation. A water tariff
increase early in 1975 proved to be inadequate to maintain a sound financial
position through 1976 and another substantial increase has been implemented
with effect from January 1, 1976.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976:
The project is going well, though its final completion may be
delayed till December 1976 -- 18 months behind schedule.
The delay    is mainly due to   a slow start in construction of regional
workshops on account of unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition
i/ .
- These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balance evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
of sites and procurement of steel. These difficulties have now been
resolved and no further major problems are anticipated on this
project. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30, 1975 to
June 30, 1976.
Credit 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977:
The project, due for completion in March 1975, which is
jointly financed by a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, has slipped
considerably behind schedule and is now expected to be completed by
December 1976. Completion cost of the project is anticipated to
exceed the appraisal estimates of 42 million KSh by a little over
25 percent on account of imflationary price escalation and the
adoption, where necessitated by tariff conditions, of specifications
and design standards higher than those envisaged in the appraisal
estimates. The Closing Date was postponed from March 31, 1976 to
December 31, 1977.
Loan 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977:
Completion is now estimated in February 1977, one year
later than originally anticipated. Most of the delay is covered by
time extensions granted the principal contractor for unforeseen
delays. There is also a serious cost overruns on the project
(estimated at US$20 million. Additionally, the principal contractor
is experiencing financial problems which could influence his ability
to continue. Establishment of the Aerodromes Department is well
underway and plans for personnel training are now being prepared.
The consultants to establish the unified commercial and cost accounting
system for the Aerodromes Department have been engaged and are now
at work.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 344-KE - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit
of November 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 2, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976:
The project progresses well and disbursements will be completed
by the Closing Date (June 30, 1976). Performance of the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC), the project executing agency, has improved.
After several years of losses it will make a small profit in FY 1975/76.
AFC has consolidated its staffing position, developed sound loan making
procedures and has become more oriented towards advanced planning and
loan follow up. Its decentralization program progress will but its
Finance and Accounts Department requires strengthening. Internal as well
as external reporting procedures, particularly regarding loans in arrear,
also requre further development.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980:
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems on organization, cost overruns and pricing. Government has
requested a detailed review of the project and a joint IDA-ther donors
mission has undertaken an indepth review. Their report is expected shortly.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5,
1974; Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980:
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, one commenced
processing on 8th December 1975 and on 5th January 1976 and the remaining
two in March/April 1976. Tenders have been received and awardee for the
building and machinery for two more factories, bids are awaited for the
erection of the machinery and the electrical work and the sites are now
being cleared and levelled. They should be operational by the end of this
year.   The new KTDA departments to be established under the project are
functioning but will require strengthening if KTDA is going to handle
satisfactorily its additional commitments. Yields, lower than envisaged
at appraisal, and high construction costs are either going to reduce the
number of factories built in the period or the period may have to be
extended.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981:
Recruitment of staff has been slow, and selection of farms
is in progress but slow particularly for the mixed farms. The project is
estimated to be about 6 to 12 months behind schedule.
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980:
Key project staff have been appointed and project execution is
proceeding satisfactorily. Construction of off-site infrastructure and
preparation and servicing of the first 1,000 site and service lots are
well under way. Design and engineering for the rest of the project is
being carried out by consultants and all studies under this project have
commenced.
Loan No. 1117-KE - Program Loan: $30 million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Effective Date: August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1976:
The loan has been fully disbursed. Progress on policy aspects of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3,
1975; Closing Date: Februarv 1. 1978:
Engineering and procurement are on schedule, and construction
started. Barring unforeseen delays, the project should be completed on
schedule.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
ProJect: $10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981:
Development of nurseries and preparation for planting is now
well underway. However, delay in procuring vehicles may cause a set back in
the planting program. Higher minimum wage for the forest workers and
general infestation has increased the cost of the project. The Land Use
Committee has now been established under the Ministry of Lands and
Settlement whose members are composed of the Permanent Secretaries of the
Ministries involved with the use of land.



ANNEX II
page 7
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Power Project: $63.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979:
Procurement and construction is well underway but effectiveness
of the loan was delayed because of need to amend Trust Deed.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 7,
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979:
Commitments under the project are well underway.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35
million Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980:
Progress is satisfactory. The initial equipment supply contracts
have been awarded. Tenders for the major pipe supply and pipeline construc-
tion contracts are due in May 1976.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981:
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully
staffed, a survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the
17 primary teachers colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects
for the Educational Broadcasting and Multi Media Service Station design
and construction supervision are being established. The National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Priorities is at work, with an interim report
to be prepared by July 1976.



ANNEX   II
Page 8
D. East African Community
General
Owing to delays in meeting debt service on various loans to
the East African Corporations disbursements to the East African Railways
Corporation, East African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Development Bank
were suspended on April 28, 1976. Following receipt of outstanding pay-
ments the suspension was lifted on June 1, 1976.     The background to
these events is described in paragraphs 23 to 26 above.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) are proceeding with the
decentralization study.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postpone from December 31, 1975
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865_EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tu 9
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been
increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa and declined in Dar es Salaam.
At the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa



ANNEX 1I
Page 9
and increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA are now being used, although transit sheds
and open storage areas for them have not yet been completed.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - Jume 30, 1977
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects
of development financing operations. The entire first loan has now been
committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976: Date of Effectiveness -
June 7. 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations and the situation has improved by a rate increase
allowed by the Community in February 1975. All major ittms have been
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to a long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 12 months.



ANNEX II
Page 10
E.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT APRIL 30, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose                        Bank       Undisburseod
Three loans fully disbursed                                       75.0
638  EA      1969    EAHC          Harbours                       35.0           2.3
674  EA      1970    EARC          Railways                       42.4          12.0
675  EA      1970    EAPTC         Telecommunications             10.4            .0*
843  EA      1972     EADB         Development Finance             8.0           1.0
865  EA      1972     EAHC         Harbours                       26.5          11.8
914  EA      1973     EAPTC        Telecommunications             32.5          10.4
1204  EA      1976     EADB         Development Finance            15.0          15.0
Total                                       244.8         52.5
of which has been repaid                   32.3
Total now outstanding                       212.5
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4          0
Total now held by Bank                      212.5
Total undisbursed                            52.5
*   $21,251.23 remains undisbursed



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
KENYA INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT LOAN/CREDIT
AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES:         The Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation,
Agricuiltural Finance Corporation and Cooperative
Bank of Kenya.
AMOUNT:                Loan of $10.0 million;
Credit of $10.0 million
TERMS:                 Loan:   25 years including 7 years of grace
and interest at 4.85% per annum.
Credit: Standard terms
RELENDING TERMS:       Some $11 million would be onlent to the Cereals and
Sugar Finance Corporation, which would relend 75% of
the proceeds to the Cooperative Bank of Kenya at the
current rate of 5-1/2% annually, repayable after two
years.- The-Cooperative Bank of Kenya -would -onlend to
unions at 7% annually, unions to societies at 9%, cooper-
ative societies to farmers at 11% for periods not exceed-
ing one year. Credit under the Subsistence Farmers Credit
Fund would be onlent to qualified farmers at 10%.
The remaining 25% would be relent by the Government
to the Agricultural Finance Corporation at 5-1/2%
annually, repayable after two years. The Agricultural
Finance Corporation would onlend to the ultimate bene-
ficiaries at 11% annuallv for periods not exceeding one year.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:   The project would constitute the first phase of an
Integrated Agricultural Development Program for the
development of smallholder agriculture. It would
promote the establishment of whole farm systems
through the provision of inputs and the strengthening
of extension services and institutions to meet the
needs and support required for a wide range of crop
and livestock activities i-n four of Kenya's provinces.
The project is expected to encourage the production
of maize, beans, cotton, potatoes, passion fruit,
oil seeds, meat and milk by about 70,000 small
farmers operating some 56,000 holdings.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
ESTIMATED COST:                              CUS$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Program Unit                      0.8      0.4      1.2
Extension and training            0.8      0.6      1.4
Input supply systems              0.4      0.2      0.6
Marketing and storage             0.8      0.5       1.3
Credit inkstitutions              1.6      0.4      2.0
On-farm physical inputs           3.9      5.6      9.5
On-farm labor                     9.1       -       9.1
Livestock development
and health                      1.8      0.9      2.7
Project evaluation                0.3      0.1      0.4
Training, technical advice
and studies                     0.2      0.8      1.0
Contingencies: Physical           0.2      0.1      0.3
Price              3.5      2.7      6.2
Total project cost               23.4     12.3     35.7
66%      34%     100%
FINANCING PLAN:                                           (US$ million)
Total      % of Total
IDA                               10.0           28
IBRD                              10.0           28
BADEA                              5.0           14
Kenya Government                   6.0           17
Farmer                             4.7           13
Total               35.7           100
ESTIMATED   1/
DISBURSEMENT- :                                   (US$ million)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Annual             0.5       2.6        4.7       5.1       4.8       2.3
Cummulative       0.5        3.1        7.8      12.9     17.7       20.0
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:           Orders exceeding US$100,000 each for fertilizers,
insecticides, hand sprays, vehicles, machinery and
equipment would be procured by international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
1/ The IDA credit would be disbursed first.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
guidelines. Orders would be bulked whenever
possible. Civil works which are scattered and
too small (average cost US$8,000) to attract
international bidding and local building material,
and all other recurrent items for which there are
enough domestic suppliers to ensure adequate com-
petition, would be procured on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally.
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE:           13 man-years costing $500,000 plus short-term
consultancies costing $250,000.
RATE OF RETURN:       The overall economic rate of return is estimated
at 37%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:     Report No. 1002a-KE dated May 15, 1976



