CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 650 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Integrated Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 9, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
thiz Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D) The Borrower intends to contract from The Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) a loan
in the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000) (hereinafter
called the BADEA Loan) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and BADEA;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation a
public corporation established under the Agricultural Finance
Corporation Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 323).
(b) "CLSMB" means the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board,
a body corporate established under the Cotton Lint and Seed Mar-
keting Board Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 335).
(c) "Cooperative Bank" means the Cooperative Bank of Kenya
Limited, a body corporate established under the Co-operative Socie-
ties Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 490).


﻿(d) "CSFC" means the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation,
a corporation established under the Cereals and Sugar Finance Cor-
poration Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 329).
(e) "HCDA" means the Horticultural Crops Development Authority,
a body corporate established by the Horticultural Crops Development
Authority Order, 1967 (L.N. 229/1967) issued under the Agriculture
Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 318).
(f) "Head of Program" means the officer described in Section
3.02(b) of this Agreement.
(g) "KNFC" means the Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives
Limited, a body corporate established under the Co-operative Socie-
ties Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 490).
(h) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Proj-
ect, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such
term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made appli-
cable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Loan
Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.
(i) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(j) "MPB" means the Maize and Produce Board, a body corporate
established under the Marketing (Maize and Produce Board) Order,
1966 (L.N. 76/1966), as amended by L.N. 228/1966, issued under
the Agricultural Produce Marketing Boards Act (L.K., Cap. 320),
and subject to the Maize Marketing Act (Laws of Kenya, Cap. 338).


﻿-5-
(k) "Program Unit" means the unit described. in Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
(1) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
Project and Parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this
greeiment.
(m) "Project Area" means the East Project Area and the West
Protect Area. The "East Froject Area" means Kiambu, Kirinyaga,
Muranga and Nyeri Districts in Central Province and Embu, Meru and
Machakos Districts in Eastern Province. The "West Project Area"
means Kisii, Kisumu, Siaya and South Nyanza Districts in Nyanza
Province and Bungoma, Busia and Kakamega Districts in Western
Province.
(n) "Relending Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CSFC pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(o) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean the agreements to be
entered into between the CSFC and AFC and the CSFC and the Cooper-
ative Bank pursuant to Section 3.01(e) of this Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(p) "Work Plan" means a plan for carrying out a portion of
the Project which has been agreed between the Borrower and the
Association pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, and
such plans shall be deemed to be agreements supplemental to this
Agreement and the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the latest Work Plan and the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Work Plan and
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a ser-
vice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-7-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing July 15, 1986, and ending January 15, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Jan-
uary 15, 1996 to be one-half of ne per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
onp-halP rer cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause it to be carried out through the agencies indicated in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) the
Project shall be carried out in conformity with this Agreement
and Work Plans agreed between the Borrower and the AssociaLion;
(ii) the first Work Plan shall cover the period ending March 31,
1978 and shall be submitted to the Association not later than
December 1, 1976; (iii) each September 1 thereafter the Borrower
shall submit to the Association a proposed Work Plan covering the
year commencing the following April 1; (iv) each Work Plan shall
contain the items described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment; (v) each proposed Work Plan submitted to the Association
shall be accompanied by the information described in Part B of
Schedule 4; and (vi) proposed Work Plans shall be evaluated on
the basis of the criteria, and their approval shall be subject
to the conditions, set out in Part C of Schedule 4.
(c) The Project shall be evaluated by the Program Unit and
the MOA's Economic Planning Division in accordance with procedures
and methods satisfactory to the Association and the results shall
be reported promptly to the Association.


﻿9
(d) The Borrower shall relend to CSFC such proceeds of the
Credit and the Loan as are contemplated by the following paragraph
(e) to be onlent by CSFC to AFC and the Cooperative Bank. Such
relending shall be under a relending agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CSFC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall, except
as the Association may otherwise agree, include those contained
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall cause CSFC to relend the proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan in the respective amounts approved in Work
Plans to AFC and the Cooperative Bank under subsidiary loan agree-
ments to be entered into between the CSFC and AFC and between the
CSFC and the Cooperative Bank under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall, except
as the Association may otherwise agree, include those contained
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Relend-
ing Agreemen', and shall cause CSFC to exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Association and CSFC and to accomp-
lish the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
nor amend, abrogate or waive, the Relending Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof, and the Borrower shall cause CSFC not to assign,
nor amend, abrogate or waive, either of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments or any provisio.i thereof.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall establish a Program Unit
in the MOA, the duties of which shall be (i) to coordinate the
planning, implementation, and evaluation of the Project, including
preparation of proposed Work Plans, procurement and distribution
of farm inputs, purchase of equipment, construction of buildings,
Project staffing, credit facilities, marketing of Project farmers'
output, and accounting for Project expenditures; and (ii) to moni-
tor closely the implementation of the Project. Except as the Asso-
ciation may otherwise agree, the Program Unit shall confine its
activities to the foregoing until the completion of the Project.
(b) The Program Unit shall be directed by a person (herein-
after called the "Head of Program") who shall report: (i) on ad-
ministrative matters, to the Head of the MOA's Land and Farm Man-
agement Division; (ii) on technical arinitural matters within
the jurisdiction of the MOA, to the Director of Agriculture through
the Head of such Division; and (iii) on matters affecting the Proj-
ect which lie outside the jurisdiction of the MOA and on policy
matters, to the Chairman of the committee referred to in the fol-
lowing Section 3.03. The Program Unit shall be adequately staffed
to carry out the duties set out in the foregoing paragraph (a) and
shall include a deputy to the Head of Program, financial controller
and an evaluation officer. The Head of Program, financial control-
ler and evaluation officer shall be persons of adequate experience
and qualifications and shall be appointed, after consultation with
the Association, not later than October 1, 1976, or such later date
as the Association may approve.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure coordination of
the activities of the agencies involved in carrying out the Project
and, to this end, shall establish, not later than September 30,
1976, or such later date as the Association may approve, an inter-
ministerial coordinating committee chaired by the Permanent Secre-
tary of the MOA and including the following members: Permanent
Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and Ministry
of Cooperative Development, Director of Agriculture (MOA), Com-
missioner of Cooperatives, and the general managers of the AFC,
Cooperative Bank, CLSMB, HCDA, KNFC and MPB. The committee shall
meet at least quarterly at the request of its secretary who shall
be the Head of Program. The committee shall approve proposed and
final Work Plans and quarterly reports on the Project, review
Project progress and resolve differences among agencies partici-
pating in the Project.
(b) In the event that any agency of the Borrower involved
in the Project fails substantially to comply with the Work Plan
at the time in force, the Head of Program shall advise such agency
accordingly and consult with the agency involved. If this fails to
resolve the problem, the Head of Program shall bring the matter to
the attention of such chairman who shall promptly refer the matter
to such committee for final decision.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in establishing
methods for evaluating the Project, the Borrower shall employ, by
October 1, 1976, or such later date as the Association may approve,
a statistical survey expert whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and adequately
staff and support for its purposes, a unit within the MOA which
shall: (i) recommend policies on absolute and relative agricul-
tural prices; (ii) review annually the farmgate prices of meat,
milk, maize, seed cotton, groundnuts, beans, sunflower seed and
passion fruit; and (iii) if the Borrower or any of its agencies
controls such prices, ensure that prices for such commodities are
published not later than December 15 of each year.
(b) The Borrower shall review on a regular basis the recur-
rent budget implications of the Project and other development proj-
ects in its agricultural sector so as to ensure that they can be
sustained over the periods for which they were designed and shall
make adequate resources available to farmer training centers.
(c) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to increase
(i) the number of female extension workers and (ii) the partici-
pation of female farmers in training programs conducted by the
M4A.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) all cooperative societies and unions participating in the
Project are appointed by the MPB, CLSMB and such other agencies
as may be required, as agents for the purchase of all agricultural
produce produced by members of such societies and unions; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) such societies and unions would buy such produce from
farmers who were not registered as members of such societies and
unions only if it were first established that such farmers were
not indebted to another society or union.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall take out and maintain, or cause to be
taken out and maintained, with responsible insurers, or make or
cause to be made other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts, in relation
to the facilities included in the Project, as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports (including quarterly reports in detail acceptable to the
Association), contract documents and work and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.


﻿-14-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan and the goods, works and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, if
the Association so requests, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.10. For the purpose of strengthening CLSMB and
improving its cotton industry, the Borrower shall, except as the
Association may otherwise agree, take, or cause to be taken, the
actions described in Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the _MOA, the Ministry
of Cooperative Development, the Cooperative Bank, cooperative soci-
eties and unions participating in the Project, AFC, MPB, K1FC, HCDA
and CLSMB to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations
and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the foregoing agencies
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of


﻿- 16 -
each of the foregoing and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (a. by June 30, 1977 or such
later date as the Association may approve, submit to the Associa-
tion a report on the criteria for performance evaluation and pro-
motion, and a proposed scheme to provide adequate incentives to
retain and motivate, qualified extension staff.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE V
[
Remedies of the Association;
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely:
(a) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the BADEA Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
BADEA Loan Agreement, or
(B) the BADEA Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
tion, termination or prematuring is not caused by
failure of the Borrower to fulfill its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified in paragraph
(a)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Section 5.03. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) That the actions to strengthen CLSMB described in Part A
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken;
(b) That the Relending Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Bor-
rower and the CSFC and is legally binding upon the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms;
(c) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
CSFC and, respectively, AFC and the Cooperative Bank and are
legally binding upon the respective parties thereto in accordance
with their respective terms;
(d) That the Borrower has fulfilled all conditions to the
effectiveness of the BADEA Loan Agreement, and the Borrower and
BADEA have agreed on the goods and services to be financed under
the BADEA Loan and the procurement procedures in respect thereof.
Section 5.04. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to


﻿I
- 19 -
the Association: (a) that the Relending Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and CSFC and is legally binding on the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms; and (b) that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and, respectively, AFC
and the Cooperative Bank and are each legally binding upon the
respective parties thereto in accordance with their respective
terms.
Section 5.05. The date September 9, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.06. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.05, 3.07(b), 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANCE                            22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By Is/ Ernest Mungai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   (a) The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category pending
approval of the first Work Plan and the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
CategoEy                 Dollar Equivalents) to be Financed
(1) Civil works                       5,500       85%
(2) Vehicles, machinery             104,500       100% of foreign
and equipment                                expenditures or
85%
(3) Fertilizer and                  100,000       100% of foreign
trellising wire                              expenditures or
85%
(4) Staff salaries for              250,000        65%
MOA, Ministry of
Cooperative Develop-
ment, cooperative unions
and societies, Coopera-
tive Bank, AFC, HCDA,
KNFC and MPB
(5) Fuel and oil for                 40,000        65%
foregoing agencies


﻿- 23 -
Amount; of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalents) to be Financed
(6) Technical assistance           100,000        100% of foreign
and studies                                  expenditures or
85%
TOTAL           600,ooo


﻿- 24-
(b) The table contained in the Annex to this Schedule sets
forth such Categories and percentages and the amounts in respect
of the Credit, the Loan and the BADEA Loan which are expected to
be allocated for withdrawal from time to time pursuant to Work
Plans.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule and allocation tables in
Work Plans covering the Categories listed above, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages contained in Work Plans will be
calculated in compliance with the policy of the Association and
the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after March 1, 1976.


﻿- 25 -
(b) In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit
shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be
made from the Loan Account except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the alloca-
tion table in the latest Work Plan, if the Association and the Bank
have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit,
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the


﻿- 26-
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan
as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, repre-
sents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan.
To   In support of applications to withdraw the proceeds of the
Credit or the Loan, and in addition to such other documentation
as may be requested by the Association or the Bank, the Borrower
shall submit the certificates described below in the cases indicated:
(a) In the case of withdrawals in respect of loans disbursed
to farmers, a certificate of the Cooperative Bank or the AFC, as
the case may be, certifying the amount of loans disbursed to farmers
under the Project;
(b) In the case of withdrawals in respect of staff salaries,
a certificate of a competent official of the ministry, agency,
cooperative union or society involved, in each case certifying
the names of persons employed for purposes of the Project and the
amounts paid them; and
(c) In the case of withdrawals in respect of fuel and oil,
certificates of competent officials of the ministries, agencies
and cooperative unions and societies involved certifying the
amounts expended for fuel and oil for purposes of the Project.


﻿- 27 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Amount of the Credit
and of the Loan and
of the BADEA Loan* ex-
pected to be Allocated.      % of
(expressed in         Expenditures
Cate8ory                Dollar Equivalents)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works for:                                  85%
(a) All Parts of               2,000,000
the Project
except Part G
(b) Part G of                    420,000
the Project
(2) Vehicles, machinery                               100% of foreign
and equipment for:                               expenditures or
85%
(a) All Parts of                 500,000
the Project
except Part G
(b) Part G                       510,000
(3) Fertilizer and                  2,800,000        100% of foreign
trellising wire                                  expenditures or
85%
(4) Loans disbursed                11,200,000         80%
to farmers in
Project Area
(5) Staff salaries for MOA,         3,400,000        65%
Ministry of Cooperative
Development, cooperative
unions and societies,
Cooperative Bank, AFC,
HCDA, KNFC and MPB
*    It is anticipated that expenditures under Categories 1 (b),
2 (b) and 5 incurred after the BADEA Loan becomes effective
will be financed out of the proceeds of the BADEA Loan.


﻿- 28 -
Amount of the Credit
and of the Loan and
of the BADEA Loan* ex-
pected to be Allocated        % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalents)     to be Financed
(6) Fuel and oil for                 800,000          65%
foregoing agencies
(7) Technical                        800,000          100% of foreign
assistance                                        expenditures
and studies                                       or 85%
(8) Unallocated                    2,570,000
TOTAL          25,000,000
It is anticipated that expenditures under categories 1 (b),
2 (b) and 5 incurred after the BADEA Loan becomes effective
will be financed out of the proceeds of the BADEA Loan.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the develop-
ment of smallholder agriculture in the Project Area; it consists
of the following parts:
Part A:   Provision of Services, Inputs and Credit
Provision of services, inputs and credit to smallholder
farmers in the Project Area in accordance with Work Plans
and the terms of this Agreement.
Part B:   Program Unit
Establishing, enabling and supporting a Program Unit
to ensure the implementation of the Project and the
program referred to above.
Part C:   Extension Services and Farmer Training
(1) Strengthening the management and increasing the
qualified staff of the MDA's extension service
in accordance with Work Plans and the terms of this
Agreement.
(2) Establishing, if necessary, equipping and supporting
a demonstration farm at each MOA Farmer Training
Center in the Project Area.


﻿- 30 -
(3) Carrying out reorientation courses for extension
staff and courses for farmers at such Centers in
accordance with Work Plans.
Part D:   Agricultural Input Supply
(1) Strengthening the capacity of KNFC to supply
agricultural inputs in the Project Area by providing
it with (a) two 14-ton trucks, (b) a warehouse for
agricultural inputs having a storage capacity of
10,000 tons and including a plant for packaging
seeds and fertilizer in ten kilo bags, (c) one
regional warehouse in the East Project Area, and
one in the West Project Area, for agricultural
inputs having a capacity of 1,000 tons each, (d)
housing for two senior staff, and (e) other vehicles
and equipment and additional senior and junior staff
in accordance with Work Plans.
(2) Establishing a unit in the MOA to coordinate the
national supply of agricultural inputs.
Part E:   Storage and Marketing Facilities
(1) Strengthening the MPB's marketing capacity in the
Project Area by providing (a) ten additional field
officers, five produce inspectors and supporting
staff, (b) three 10- to 12-ton produce collection
trucks, (c) two crop warehouses having a capacity
of 4,500 tons and 10,000 tons, respectively, with
supporting facilities, and (d) a ten-ton per hour
crop dryer.


﻿- 31 -
(2) Strengthening the HCDA's marketing capacity in the
Project Area by constructing three refrigerated
stores having an aggregate capacity of 3,000 tons.
Part F:   Credit Institutions
(1) Increasing the capacity of the Cooperative Bank,
the AFC and the Ministry of Cooperative Development
to provide and administer credit to smallholder
farmers by providing additional staff, equipment
and vehicles in accordance with Work Plans.
(2) Establishment within the CSFC of a Subsistence
Farmers Credit Fund for lending to farmers in the
Project Area who are unqualified for conventional
credit and, subject to demand, making funds avail-
able to such Fund in accordance with Work Plans.
Part G:   Livestock Production and Health
Strengthening the Animal Production Division and the
Veterinary Department of the MOA by providing an
artificial insemination laboratory and equipment,
offices, stores, cattle dips, milk handling and
cooling buildings, staff housing, vehicles and other
equipment in accordance with Work Plans.


﻿- 32 -
Part H:   Training, Studies and Technical Assistance
(1) Providing improved management training to senior
personnel involved in the Project.
(2) Carrying out studies and research and obtaining
expert advice and technical assistance related
to the Project in accordance with Work Plans or
as otherwise agreed with the Association.
Part I:   Evaluation
Thoroughly monitoring the Project in accordance with
monitoring and evaluation indices acceptable to the
Association, and providing staff, vehicles, equipment
and supporting services for this purpose.
The Iroject is expected to be.completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B, goods and works shall be pro-
cured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Orders for goods and construction of civil works will be
bulked to the maximum extent practicable.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent and contracts for construction of civil works may be
awarded following local competitive bidding and in accordance
with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
2.   Contracts for items not subject to bulking or bulked packages
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent may be awarded
pursuant to such competitive procedures as are appropriate under
the circumstances, provided that the aggregate cost of contracts
so awarded shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent.


﻿- 34 -
3.   This Schedule does not apply to (a) labor employed by farmers
receiving credit under the Project or by the Borrower and its agen-
cies, or (b) inputs other than fertilizer financed out of loans
made to farmers under the Project.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-suprlied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to


﻿- 36 -
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid,
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿-37-
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such ccn-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 4
Work Plans
(Section 3.01 (b))
Part A:   Contents of Work Plans
(1) Project budget for the period covered including:
(a) in respect of each agency involved in the Project,
(i) proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on vehicles,
equipment, and civil works); (ii) all proposed
incremental recurrent expenditures on salaries,
fuel, repairs and maintenance directly attributable
to Project activities; (iii) a list of Nairobi-
based staff employed full-time on Project activi-
ties and whose salaries would be financed through
the Project;
(b) proposed provincial administrative budgets and
district administrative budgets for the Project,
each detailing at the Provincial and District lev-
els respectively the items specified in (a) (i),
(ii) and (iii) (for local staff) above; and
(c) estimated incremental credit for inputs and labor
to be supplied respectively by AFC and the Coop-
erative Bank, indicating for the latter amounts
to come from the fund referred to in Part F (2)
of the Project.


﻿- 39 -
(2) Work, procurement, staffing and training plans, includ-
ing programs for each location involved.
(3) Proposed table covering the categories of items listed
in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement and in-
dicating, in respect of each such item, the amount of
the Credit and the Loan allocated thereto and the per-
centage of expenditures to be financed out of the Credit
and the Loan. The aggregate amount so allocated shall
be the total of the aggregate amount allocated in the
latest Work Plan (or, in the case of the first Work
Plan, in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) and the aggre-
gate incremental amount of the Credit and the Loan
proposed to be made available for withdrawal under the
proposed Work Plan.
(4) Any proposed variation from the procurement procedures
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(5) Any proposed studies to be carried out or experts to be
employed pursuant to Part H (2) of the Project.
(6) The incremental amounts to be lent to AFC and the Coop-
erative Bank, respectively, pursuant to Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
Part B:   Supporting Information to be Furnished
to the Association
(1) In respect of each location in the Project Area proposed
to be assisted in the period to which the proposed Work
Plan relates, the following:


﻿(a) Name of location.
(b) Number of participating farmers and the basis of
their selection.
(c) Soil and water conservation measures proposed for
the location.
(d) Description of annual increase in physical devel-
opment (number of hectares) divided among crop
development (with full details regarding each
crop), livestock development and other activities.
(e) Description of exact input package recommended for
each crop and livestock enterprise.
(f) Quantities of farm inputs required.
(g) Names, locations, financial status, management,
supervision, and auditing arrangements for coop-
erative society (or societies) and union which
will supply farm inputs and marketing services in
each participating location.
(h) Location of each relevant inout distribution
and marketing center, and maximum distances from
participating farmers.


﻿- 41 -
(i) Numbers of extension staff and ratio to participat-
ing farmers.
(j) Training program for farmers in current and subse-
quent years, and names of Farmer Training Centers
responsible for such training.
(k) Sources and amounts of farmers' credit divided as
to:
(i) Cooperative Bank -- ordinary credit;
(ii) Cooperative Bank -- Subsistence Farmers Cred-
it Fund; and
(iii) AFC.
(1) Amounts of credit subdivided as to purposes, e.g.:
(i) Fertilizers,
(ii) Seed,
(iii) Insecticide,
(iv) Labor, and
(v)  Other.
(m) Adequacy of processing facilities and names and
capacities of participating processing units.
(n) Plans, if any, for artificial insemination.


﻿- 42 -
(2) The following information aggregated from the foregoing:
(a) Number of locations.
(b) Number of farmers.
(c) Anticinated physical development of crops and live-
stock.
(d) Inputs required, analyzed as to fertilizers, seed,
insecticide and others.
(e) Credit amounts by source.
(f) Staff changes and apnointments.
(3) All Project quarterly reports not previously furnished
the Association to and including the last quarter end-
ing prior to the submission of the Droposed Work Plan.
(4) Copy of the publication(s) containing the published
rrices of the commodities listed in Section 3.05 (a)
of this Agreement.


﻿- 43 -
Part C:   Criteria on which arproval of nronosed Work Plans
will be based and conditions of anrroval
(1) Suitability of locations pronosed for inclusion in the
Project, taken as a group, will be determined on the
following bases:
(a) Selection of locations having been undertaken
by the Head of Program in consultation with senior
provincial and district agricultural staff.
(b) Participating farmers from the East Project Area
will comprise not less than 40% of all participants.
(c) Participating farmers from the West Project Area
will comprise not less than 40% of all participants.
(d) There would be a progressive increase in partici-
pating locations and farmers during the Project
implementation period.
(2) Suitability of individual locations pronosed for inclu-
sion in the Project will be determined on the following
bases:
(a) General    -    adequacy of infrastructure, e.g.
water, access roads, markets.
(b) Crops      -    assured availability of nrocessing
facilities.


﻿- 4~4 -
(c) Livestock (if
included in
Work Plan) -   (i) Management of cattle dips by
the Veterinary Department.
(ii) Availability of hand sprayers
or dips and acaricide (either
already supplied or to be sup-
plied).
(d) Cooperative
Societies -    (i) All particinating cooperative
societies and unions should
be capable of ensuring the
supply of credit, inputs and
marketing services for all
crops as well as cattle and
milk.
(ii) Financial solvency.
(iii) Adeauacy of management.
(e) Inruts - (i) Maize and cotton seed proposed
to be used should be tested
and have an 80% chance of ger-
mination.
(ii) Fertilizer variety and proposed
rate of application should con-
form to locally recommended
packages.


﻿- 45 -
(f) Number of
Extension
Staff - (i) Enough junior agricultural
assistants (JAAs) and technical
assistants to ensure 2 hours of
instruction per Project farmer
per month, through individual
visits and group meetings but,
in any event, enough to achieve
a ratio of not less than one
of the same for each 200 farmers
in the location involved.
(ii) Technical Officer for the divi-
sion in place.
(g) Training -      (i) All participating JAAs and
technical assistants should
have received orientation train-
ing for the Project, or would
be scheduled for such training
during period covered by pro-
posed Work Plan.
(ii) All farmers participating in
the Project for the first time
should have received Project
orientation training or would
receive such training during
such period.


﻿- 46 -
(h) Credit
Sources   -    (i) The main channel of credit
for farm inputs would be the
cooperative societies and unions.
(ii) The Agricultural Finance Corp-
oration (AFC) would make sea-
sonal loans only where no suit-
able cooperative lending chan-
nel exists or where partici-
pating farmers are already
AFC clients or are applying to
AFC for medium or long term
loans at the same time.
(iii) Participation in the Subsis-
tence Farmers Credit Fund
(SFCF) would be reserved for
farmers who do not quality
for conventional Cooperative
or AFC loans.
(3) The following events will be conditions of a location's
inclusion in the Project:
(a) Appointment of Coordinators: Provincial and District
Project Coordinators would be appointed not later
than June 1 preceding the participation of the dis-
trict in the subsequent crop season, provided that
in respect of the First Work Plan, these appoint-
ments would be made before September 1.


﻿(b) Expansion of Cooperative Activity to include input
supply and marketing for all Project crop and
livestock activity would be effective before for-
warding of the proposed Work Plan to the Association.
(c) Ordering of Farm Inputs: Provision would be made
for ordering farm inputs not later than six months
before anticipated date of use (e.g., November 1
for March/April planting).
(4) Proposed Work Plans will not be considered in the ab-
sence of the approvals indicated below:
(a) District Work Plans shall be submitted to the Head
of Program through the provincial Director of Agri-
culture by the District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
who shall, by signing the District Work Plan, cer-
tify that it has been considered in full committee
and approved by a committee consisting of the DAO,
as chairman, District Cooperative Officer, District
Program Coordinator, as secretary, cooperative union
manager, District Development Officer and AFC branch
manager.
(b) The proposed Work Plan shall be submitted to the
Association by the Head of Program, and shall be
signed by the chairman of the committee referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement who shall in
this capacity act as a representative of the Borrower


﻿- 483
for purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions, and who shall by so signing, certify that
the proposed Work Plan has been considered in full
committee and approved by such committee.


﻿49 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Terms
(Section 3.01 (a) and (e))
1.   The proceeds of the Credit and the Loan lent by the Borrower
to CSFC shall be repaid within twenty years including five years'
grace.
2.   Interest rates to be charged in respect of the relending of
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan and the maximum repayment
periods in respect thereof shall be as follows:
Annual Interest
Rate
Conven-
tional    Maximum Repay-
Lender         Borrower       SFCF      Credit     ment Period
Government     CSFC             3           5      See para. 1 above
CSFC           AFC             N/A        5-1/2    24 months
CSFC           Cooperative
Bank           3-1/2      5-1/2    24 months
Cooperative    Cooperative
Bank           Unions            5          7      22 months
Cooperative    Cooperative
Bank or        Societies
Cooperative
Unions                           7          9      22 months
Cooperative    Farmers
Societies,
Cooperative
Unions or AFC                   10        11       18 months (see
paragraph 3 below)


﻿- 50 -
3.   Loans to farmers shall be repayable in the shortest period
consistent with the farmer's ability to repay in view of the
crop for which credit is extended, and amortization payments
shall be calculated so as to coincide as far as practicable with
the times at which the farmer's crops, if properly cultivated,
will be ready for sale.
4.   The CSFC shall lend annually to AFC and the Cooperative
Bank, as required by them for their respective lending programs
unaer Ene troject:
(a) amounts of principal and interest repaid to the CSFC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b) such additional amounts as are equivalent to the pro-
ceeds :.l tne Credit and the Lan w  UIawl oy the Borrower for
purposes of providing credit to farmers in accordance with hu.k
Plans.
CSFC's obligation in respect of the foregoing clause (a) shall
expire not earlier than three years after the last withdrawal
referred to in clause (b).
5.   Funds relent to farmers shall be utilized to provide far-
mers, on average, 75% of the variable costs of planting, culti-
vating, harvesting and transporting the crops in respect of
which credit is sought. Not more than 25% of the amount to be
loaned will be provided in cash.


﻿- 51 -
6.   The standard loan agreements utilized by AFC and cooperative
unions and societies for lending to farmers shall be acceptable
to the Association.
7.   CSFC, AFC and the Cooperative Bank shall each be committed
to take such action as is required in order to enable and assist
the Borrower in meeting its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, including, in the case of the Cooperative Bank,
ensuring adherence to the criteria set out in paragraph 9 below
in its lending to cooperative societies and unions.
8.   In respect of credit for inputs extended in kind, farmers'
loan accounts shall not be charged in amounts exceeding the mar-
ket price for such inputs in the area where the farm involved
is located.
9.   The criteria for lending to farmers shall be required to
include, except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a) In respect of the Subsistence Farmers Credit Fund:
(i) Farmer's agricultural land holdings shall not
exceed 8.5 hectares;
(ii) Farmer's net farm income for past year shall not
have exceeded K.Sh.1,000 and farmer's net income
for past year shall not have exceeded K.Sh.5,000;
and


﻿- 52 -
(iii) Farmer shall not have previously received substan-
tial agricultural credit, excent under the Project.
(b) In respect of all other credit provided to farmers un-
der the Project (conventional credit):
(i) Farmer's agricultural land holdings shall not ex-
ceed 8.5 hectares; and
(ii) Farmer's net income for past year shall not have
exceeded K.Sh.15,900.
(c) In respect of all credit nrovided to farmers under the
Project for cotton, no loan shall be made unless the farmer under-
takes to cultivate at least 0.2 hectare of cotton.


﻿- 53 -
SCHEDULE 6
Program to Strengthen CLSMB
and Improve the Cotton Industry
(Sections 5.03(a) and 3.10)
Part A:   Action to be taken Prior to Effective Date
1.   All Board membership vacancies in the CLSMB shall be
filled. Representatives of growers named to the Board
shall be elected in a manner satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the Association. Representatives of the cot-
ton industry named to the Board shall include repre-
sentativec of local spinners and cotton exporters.
2.   The CLSMB shall employ, after consultation with the
Association, the following persons, all of whom shall
have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association:
(a) financial controller,
(b) marketing officer, and
(c) chief accountant.
Part B:   Other Commitments
1.   The CLSMB shall be adequately staffed (including, and
in addition to, the staff described in Part A above)
and supported. Without limitation to the foregoing,


﻿- 514-
the CLSMB shall employ a production officer, lint clas-
sifier, and two ginnery mechanics not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1976.
2.   The CLSMB shall publish its accounts (balance sheet
and profit and loss statement and a detailed account
showing the costs and returns per kilo of seed cotton)
annually within six months after the end of each of
its financial years. The CLSMB shall furnish the Asso-
ciation its audited accounts for the financial years
ending 1972 to and including 1975 not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1976.
3.   The CLSMB shall sell all lint and seed by public auc-
tion and shall publish the results of such sales
promptly after each auction. There shall be no restric-
tions applied to the sale, ownership, use or export
of cotton or seed produced in Kenya which have as
their purpose, or their probable effect (a) discrimi-
nation between (i) purchasers who intend to export
from Kenya the cotton lint or seed purchased, and (ii)
purchasers who do not so intend, or (b) restriction
on the export of cotton lint or seed. All sales of
cotton lint or seed shall be made pursuant to standard
contracts acceptable to the Association and contracts
shall be concluded only with purchasers who have opened
irrevocable letters of credit in favor of CLSMB for at
least the amount of the purchase price. The Borrower
shall submit its proposed standard contracts to the
Association not later than September 30, 1976.


﻿- 55 -
14. Not later than July 1, 1977 the Borrower shall submit
to the Association, for its approval, its detailed
plans and proposed program (including an implementation
schedule) in respect of the following objectives:
(a) adequate maintenance, insnection and operation of
ginneries, including training of mechanics and
operators, adequate health and safety measures
and an efficient system for compensating ginneries
for their services;
(b) efficient distribution of high quality cotton
seeds to farmers;
(c) providing security of adequate returns to cotton
farmers, including a guaranteed minimum price
published annually before planting, and implement-
ing a system for returning to cotton farmers di-
rectly profits of CLSMB from cotton lint and seed
sales in excess of certain levels;
(d) adequate accounting procedures for CLSMB, includ-
ing a system of control and accounts to ensure
that proper payments are promptly made at each
level (farmers, ginneries, transporters, etc.);
and
(e) introducing an imProved cotton lint grading system.


﻿- 56 -
5.   The Borrower shall ensure the implementation of a pro-
gran acceptable to the Borrower and the Association to
achieve the objectives listed in the foregoing para-
graph 4.
6.   The price paid to farmers for grade AR seed cotton hav-
ing a staple length of at least one and one-sixteenth
inches for the 1977 growing season shall be at least
K.Sh.2.50 per kilo in 1976 prices and other seed cot-
ton prices shall be adjusted accordingly.


