Report No. PIC2775
Project Name                        Senegal-Integrated Health Sector...
Development Project
Region                              Africa
Sector                              Health
Project ID                          SNPA2369
Borrower                            Government of Senegal
Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Health and Social Action
Contact: Abdoul Aziz Diop
Directeur de Cabinet, MHSA
Palais du Gouvernement, Dakar
Tel: 221-22-35-25
Fax: 221-22-26-09
Date Initial PID Prepared           October 7, 1995
Date This PID Updated               November 12, 1996
Projected Appraisal                 November 15, 1996
Projected Board Date                May 20, 1997
Background
1.   Country and Sector Background
Demographically, Senegal+s population reached 8.4 million in 1994 and is
expected to continue to grow at 2.69 p.a. through the 1990+s.    Given the
young age structure of the population, the early age at first marriage
and the widespread practice of polygamy, prospects for a significant
reduction in population growth in the near future are bleak if no major
effort is undertaken to step up family planning activities and women and
girl+s education. As for health statistics, they show that, although
substantial improvements have been achieved since independence in 1964,
Senegal+s human indicators of development are still well below those of
other countries at comparable levels of development. In addition to
preventable and treatable diseases, malnutrition and anemia remain a
serious problem particularly among children and pregnant and lactating
mothers.    In addition, the prevalence of STDs and the spread of HIV
infections as well as other opportunistic diseases such as tuberculosis
are becoming an increasingly serious public health threat.
2.   Project Objectives
The project fully supports the Bank+s strategy for the health sector as
described in the CAS. In health, the Bank+s goal is to help Government
to a) achieve fertility decline and reduce the current high population
growth rate; b) improve access of quality primary health care to the
vast majority of the underserved and vulnerable population groups in
urban and rural settings; and c) improve the management and financial
viability of the public health system. The more comprehensive and
synergetic approach to health services development under the proposed
project would provide more efficient health care delivery. It would
help alleviate the burden on limited public resources and reform some of



the programs that are part of the public health safety net. IDA
involvement, would facilitate improvements in the management and
delivery of secondary and tertiary level of health services to prevent
further pressures and deterioration in the standards of hospitals and
public health financing. Many components of the project would have
financial requirements that are beyond the capacity of local resources
or than can be mobilized through the international donor community. The
IDA Credit sought by the Government would complement these resources.
IDA current investments in the Human Development sector in Senegal
include one planned and three ongoing operations which will directly or
indirectly contribute to the objectives of the proposed project. They
are the Endemic Disease Control Project (to be presented to the Board of
Executive Directors during FY 97), the ongoing Human Resources
Development Project in Education, the Higher Education Project, the
Community Nutrition Project. Implementation of the Endemic Disease
Control Project, which aims to strengthen the endemic diseases control
program administration and establish a sector wide Management
Information System (MIS), will be an integral part of the health sector
investment program. In addition, the strong commitment of the
Government for further reform in the field of population and health
provides an excellent opportunity to improve both the efficiency of the
health system and the quality and extent of reproductive health services
including STD/AIDS prevention.
3.   Project Description
The proposed project will support the Government+s health plan and five
year investment program for the period 1997-2001. Building on policy
and institutional reforms initiated under the ongoing Human Resources
Development Project (25-SE), the primary objectives of the proposed
project are to: (a) expand access and use of health services; (b)
increase the overall efficiency of the health care system in the
mobilization and use of services; and (c) contribute to fertility
reduction. The sector investment project preparation was initiated in
September 1995, following the adoption by Government of a strategic
framework for health sector development. Preparation of a ten year
National health Development Plan (NHDP) and a first five year investment
program to implement the framework is well underway with strong support
from multilateral and bilateral donors. The health planning process is
based on the preparation of district and regional health plans, the
reform of state hospitals and the promotion of cost sharing through
mandatory health protection plans as well as optional community-based
health insurance schemes. The provision of an integrated package of
Primary Health Care (PHC) and first level referral which are at the core
of the district health plans, remains a major area of priority in the
NHDP, along with measures to strengthen managerial capacity and increase
service delivery efficiency at all level of the health system. PHC is
defined as a minimum package of preventive and curative services
including reproductive health ,family planning and STD/AIDS prevention.
The project will finance investments in infrastructure and management of
publicly-owned health facilities. Support will be provided to the
districts+ health development plan and to regional and national
hospitals, based on quality assurance and performance measures and upon
satisfaction of eligibility criteria such as cost recovery and tariff
policies, information and management system and appropriate legislation
for increased administrative and financial autonomy. The project will
- 2 -



support activities and technical assistance aimed at improving the
managerial, planning and administrative capacity of basic health care
facilities, first level referral district hospital and regional and
state hospitals to strengthen their ability to generate resources and
provide sustainable service deliveries. While it is expected that most
public health facilities will be eligible for funding under the project,
agreement was reached with the Government that a large share of
resources under the investment program will be transferred to the lower
levels of the health system with a priority for prevention and
integrated primary health care. State Hospitals will apply for
investment grants under the project and funds will be set aside under
the Credit to that effect. Review and approval mechanisms of the
district health plans and hospital investment plans will be developed
and agreed upon with the Government prior to appraisal. All regions and
districts are in the process of finalizing their development plans in
cooperation with local authorities and other stakeholders.
4.   Project Financing
The project cost and the financing plan are not yet defined.     Total IDA
Credit is estimated at US$35 million with local counterpart funds
representing 10%.    The amount of funding from the other multi-lateral
and bi-lateral institutions is still to be determined.
5.   Project Implementation
Health managers at district, regional, and national levels would have a
lead responsibility for implementing the sector-wide investment program.
Central technical divisions of the MHSA would be responsible for
strategic planning and donor coordination. In addition, they would
provide support and monitoring for peripheral activities. Credit
financing would be made available to NGOs to promote health education
and solidarity mechanisms within community health associations.
6.   Project Benefits
Major benefits are: A reduction of preventable infant and maternal
death, expanded access to primary health care and referral services and
increased prevalence of contraceptive use. These benefits will
contribute to a reduction in the incidence of disease and disability
among all population age groups, which in turn will impact positively on
the alleviation of poverty. The decrease in the morbidity and mortality
of women and children, one of the key determinants of fertility
behavior, will impact positively on fertility decline as well as enable
this large segment of the population to participate fully in the
country±s present and future economic development. Other benefits
include more efficient and professionally-managed health services. As
a result of project interventions, improved management of health
facilities at all levels of the health system should lead to efficiency
gains, contribute to cost containment and help foster higher quality of
care. The mobilization of health financing resources through the
rehabilitation of ongoing health insurance schemes and the promotion of
other solidarity mechanisms among community health associations should
contribute to the sustainability of the public health system and greater
equity in access to services. Reform of the pharmaceutical sub-sector
to encourage a more systematic use of generic drugs as well as reform of
the hospital sub-sector should also lead to substantial savings in
public and household expenditures.
- 3-



7.   Project Risks
-    Slower change in sexual and fertility behavior among the population
-    Continuation of a weak implementation capacity at the MHSA
compounded by difficulties in attracting and maintaining staff in
the regions
-    Uncontrolled increase in health expenditure and further economic
difficulties could compromise financing and sustainability of
health services
8.   Project Sustainability.
More efficient management of human, material and financial resources
will enable the sector to improve the quality and reliability of health
services and their cost effectiveness.    The mobilization of additional
financing sources using cross subsidies, more equitable application of
user fees for refunds and hospital care and improvements and equity in
allocation of funds, will help ensure a more sustainable financial base
for the public health system.
9.   Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In 1991, the Senegalese Government received a US$ 35 million IDA credit
(25-SN) to finance a multisectoral human resources development project
(PDRH1). The project health component implemented in the three regions
of Dakar, Thies and Diourbel, has successfully tested the acceptability
of generic drugs and has demonstrated the willingness and ability of
communities to pay for health services and to manage cost recovery
schemes. The project also highlighted (i) the difficulties in dealing
with human resources management reforms including redeployment of
personnel in the absence of greater decentralization of health system
management and broader civil service reform; (ii) the limited capacity
of central administrative structure to redefine their role away form
direct controls and management toward strategic and support functions;
and (iii) the need for major legislative and regulatory reform of
pharmaceutical sub-sector to achieve a meaningful shift to generic drug
procurement and distribution. In the population field, findings from
the recently conducted DHS confirm the need to focus IEC activities on
specific target audiences requirements, expand contraceptive method
availability and improve the quality of Family planning services. In
addition, five major studies were financed under the IDA credit to
establish a basis for a comprehensive national policy dialogue on key
sectoral issues. Findings and recommendations formulated under these
studies as well as the Bank sector report on health financing in Senegal
has guided the design of interventions under the proposed project.
10. Poverty Category
The proposed project is sector-wide and addresses the entire population.
For this reason, the operation is not part of the Program of targeted
intervention.   However, it aims to provide accessible and quality
health services with emphasis on the women and children, thereby
alleviating and reducing poverty.
11. Environmental aspects
Justification/Rationale for category C rating: The handling and
management of medical waste and hazardous materials would be assessed
during project preparation and specific recommendations for waste
disposal will be drawn up for implementation.    All project financed
-4 -



construction would include drainage, solid waste disposal and sanitary
facilities
12. Program Objectives Categories
The proposed project responds to the human resource development and
poverty alleviation objectives of the Government.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
November 15, 1996.
-5-



