Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2985-SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Health Sector Development Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 15, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2985-SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated June 16, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s health sector (the Letter), and to implement the Borrower’s 
National Health Strategy (HS) (the Letter and the HS are collectively referred to as 
the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Development Bank (AfDB), 
the Kingdom of Belgium (Belgium), the French Ministry of Cooperation (France), the 
European Union (EU), the government of Italy (Italy), the government of Norway 
(Norway), the Islamic Development Bank (IDB), the Japan International Cooperation 
Agency (JICA), the Kreditanstalt Fur Weideraufbau (KFW), the government of the 
Netherlands (the Netherlands), the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), the United Nations 
Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), 
and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) (the Cofinanciers), 
Page  2
loans and grants in an aggregate amount approximately equivalent to sixty million 
dollars ($60,000,000), during the period 1998-2002, to assist in financing the Program 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective loan and grant agreements (the 
Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the 
Cofinanciers; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AWPB” means the annual work program and budget prepared by the Borrower 
for the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
(b)
“DAGE” means Direction de l’Administration Générale et de l’Equipement, 
the directorate for equipment management, within MHSA (as hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” and “CFAF” mean the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(d)
“First Project Year” means the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter, and “Project Year” or "PY” means 
any twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the end of 
any subsequent Project Years; 
(e)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.05 (iii) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
“MHSA” means Ministère de la Santé et des Actions Sociales, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social Actions; 
(g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower in June 
1997, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter 
alia, workplans, training plans, monitoring and performance indicators, and procedures 
to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Project, as they may be amended 
from time to time with the approval of the Association and such term includes any 
schedules to the Operational Manual;
(h)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement;  
(i)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
(j)
“SSU” means Sector Investment Project Support and Monitoring Unit, 
established by the MHSA for the purpose of the implementation of the Project; and 
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 35,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2007 and ending June 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DAGE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above and except, 
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, for comments and approval, a 
draft consolidated AWPB, not later than July 31 each year, prior to the annual review 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
ensure that the yearly financing of the Program including public, 
community and external sources is met in accordance with the financing plan approved 
by the Borrower in connection with the Program; 
(c)
make available to the regions and the districts, funding for the purposes 
of the respective part of the Program to be carried out at their level in amounts 
consistent with the AWPB; and 
(d)
furnish to the Association progress reports based on time-bound 
performance indicators and use of funds before each annual review.
Section 3.05. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, the Borrower 
shall: (i) provide in its budget amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart 
contributions to the costs of the Project; (ii) open and maintain until the completion 
of the Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association and on terms  and conditions acceptable to the Association; (iii) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $500,000 (the Initial 
Deposit); (iv) thereafter annually deposit  into the Project Account an amount 
equivalent to the Initial Deposit or any other amount required for further 
implementation of the Project as agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(v) ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the 
execution of the Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor, or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
Page  7
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such 
agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the 
amount of the Initial Deposit; and
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial accounting and management system 
acceptable to the Association, and has appointed, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an auditor for purposes of Article 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
Rue Charles Lainé
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINIFINANCES
3203 G
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) in respect of payments made against Categories (1) through (4), unless 
the AWPB has been approved in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (c) in respect of payments made for 
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under any other credit or grant.
Page  9
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand access to primary health care 
and referral services; (b) improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of health 
care provisions, including reproductive health information and services; and (c) 
strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to efficiently organize, monitor and evaluate 
health services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof, as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of the Health Care and Reproductive Outcomes of the 
Poor 
1.
Construction or rehabilitation of about fifty selected health posts and three 
selected district health centers, inter alia, in the regions of Dakar, Louga, Fatik, 
Kaola, and Thies, construction or rehabilitation of at least two tertiary hospitals, 
and minor construction or rehabilitation work in selected social and health-related 
buildings and centers. 
2. 
Provision of drugs, vaccines, contraceptives, vehicles, office furniture, 
equipment and supply for the health posts and health centers referred to in paragraph 
1 above. 
Part B: 
Enhancement of the Performance and Sustainability of Health Care 
Systems
1.
Carrying out of a series of information, education and communication activities. 
2.
Provision of specialized and continuing training to MHSA staff, inter alia, in 
the area of public health and management. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services for the design, supervision and 
management of health system facilities.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services for the organization of targeted 
multimedia campaigns. 
5.
Provision of training to physicians and other health workers in reproductive 
health. 
6.
Provision, through non-governmental organizations, of equipment, medical and 
non-medical supplies for the benefit of  community health workers, and carrying out of 
related information, education and communication activities. 
7.
Provision of technical advisory services for (i) carrying out of a series of 
studies related to the health sub-sector; (ii) preparation and development of pilot 
projects for hospital development; and (iii) organization of training program for the 
carrying out of the hospital reform to be undertaken by the Borrower.
8. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
implementation, management and monitoring of the Project at the central level. 
9.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance for the 
implementation, management and monitoring of the Project at the regional level. 
Page  10
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for contracts for works exceeding $5,000,000 shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. (d)
Notification and Advertising The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures. 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,100,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Pharmaceutical products and specialized medical equipment estimated to cost less 
than $100,000, may be procured from UNIPAC or IAPSO, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Page  11
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II:  Procurement of Consultant Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provision shall apply to consultants services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the 
short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services carried out in connection with the hospital sub-sector and financing 
thereof estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
Page  12
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for the management of delegated contracts and management training under 
Parts A.1 and B.3 of the Project respectively, which are estimated to cost less than 
$600,000 and $100,000 equivalent per contract respectively, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for lectures and small studies, tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, 
such amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
Coordination and Management 
2.
MHSA, through DAGE, shall be responsible for the overall coordination and 
Page  13
implementation of the Project, with necessary support from the SSU. 
3.
The SSU shall inter alia:
(a)
liaise between the Borrower, technical management, beneficiaries 
entities, and donors, and keep them apprised of all important matters related to the 
Program;
(b)
provide full support and assistance to  project beneficiary entities in 
resolving problems related to the execution of the Program;
(c)
coordinate the preparation of the AWPB and associated budget of the 
Project and monitor its execution, including the monitoring of allocation of 
Cofinanciers and the Borrower’s contribution, and, where applicable, contribution from 
other private sources of various implementation entities;
(d)
coordinate the preparation of AWPB by each implementation entity, 
aggregate them into an AWPB for the Project and secure its approval by the MHSA in 
consultation with the Association and other Cofinanciers;
(e)
monitor the execution of said work program, commitments and disbursements 
of the credit proceeds by each implementation entity;
(f)
supervise compliance with agreed covenants and the fulfillment of the 
objectives and Performance Indicators;
(g)
prepare detailed progress reports and transmit them to the 
decision-making bodies and donors in a timely manner;
(h)
keep the accounts of the Project and ensure that each Project 
implementation entity keeps its respective accounts under the Project; and
(i)
coordinate the preparation of the annual audit of accounts and of the 
mid-term review referred to in paragraph 7 of this Schedule.
Annual Work Program and Budget 
4.
The preparation of regional and district operational plans for each fiscal year 
shall be conducted during the second quarter of  the preceding year based on a broad 
financial outline prepared by the Borrower in consultation with the Association. 
Preliminary annual work program and budget (AWPB) shall be completed at least four 
months before the beginning of the fiscal year. The Borrower and the Association shall 
discuss each AWPB at the joint annual review meeting and, after incorporating the 
comments of the Association, the Borrower shall, not later than January 1, approve the 
AWPB.
5.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association: (a) a semi-annual progress report 
including information on agreed upon Performance Indicators based on data from the 
monitoring system. The report shall include, inter alia,: (a) a summary statement on 
the status of execution of each project activity; and (b) a table showing compliance 
with project covenants and progress in implementing agreed policy objectives.
6.
The Borrower shall cause MHSA to: (i) establish and thereafter maintain itemized 
annual recurrent budgets (budgets fonctionnels) and identifiable project accounts at 
central, regional and district levels; and (ii) prepare monthly consolidated reports 
at the regional and central levels. \0c
Mid-term review
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 1999, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
Page  14
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 1999  or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
1,800,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 900,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
Page  15
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
SCHEDULE WAS DONE IN COLUMNS
Page  16
