Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB 5080 
Project Name 
Third Programmatic Fiscal Management & Comp. DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); Other domestic and 
international trade (50%) 
Project ID 
P106720 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Jr. Junin 319 
Lima 1 
Peru 
Tel: (51-1) 427-7095, 426-9452 
 
Fax: (51-1) 428-2101, 426-1823 
aamezaga@mef.gob.pe 
Date PID Prepared 
August 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 11, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 24, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
At the concept stage the reform program envisaged for this third operation is well advanced.  Seven of 
the nine triggers have been accomplished and agreed with the authorities as prior actions for Board 
approval. The trigger related to the simplification of fiscal rules for regional governments has not been 
completed and the trigger related to e-government and the digital agenda has only been partially 
completed. 
•
The trigger related to the modification of fiscal rules for regional governments has not been 
completed and is replaced with the package of fiscal measures included in the Economic Stimulus Plan 
(PEE).  At this stage, the government has postponed the modification of the fiscal rules for regional 
governments until a full assessment of the decentralization process is available.  The authorities are 
approaching the pending decentralization agenda in a gradual manner. The fiscal decentralization law 
that was recently approved on March 20, 2009, aims at introducing incentives for improved fiscal 
management at the municipal level. In particular, the law aims at improving sustainability and efficiency 
of fiscal management at the municipal level.  
•
The trigger related to the e-government and digital agenda has been partially completed, partly 
due to institutional changes. By contrast, reforms in government procurement made greater progress and 
are likely be included as prior actions for Board approval. The management transition at the National E-
Government Office has delayed the implementation of the e-government and digital agendas. There has 
been some progress in the monitoring of telecom infrastructure indicators (e-readiness). But the 
transition to on-line transactions of government services for citizens is progressing slower than 
originally anticipated. By contrast, the e-procurement agenda has shown significant progress. The 
progress achieved in procurement reforms was partly driven by the need to comply with commitments 
assumed under the FTAs with the U.S., Singapore and Canada and most recently, with the need to 
support the implementation of the counter-cyclical stimulus package as much of the package is directed 
towards investments in infrastructure. A new Procurement Law was passed and the National 
Procurement Strategy was completed. The main reforms introduced by the new Government 
Page  2
Procurement Law are: (i) the establishment of the Central Public Purchasing Agency (Peru Compras) 
and (ii) the authorization of public acquisitions through commodity markets as an alternative 
mechanism.   
Since the last operation, the GoP has achieved substantial progress in reforms that complement and 
ensure sustainability of the program under this DPL series.  These reforms are discussed in detail in the 
next section.  Examples include policy actions aimed at improving economic integration and 
competitiveness. The implementation of the One-Stop-Shop for Trade (VUCE) has been accompanied 
by a series of free tr
ade agreements with several countries that promote Peru’s integration into global 
markets. Another example relates to measures aimed at promoting the inclusion of small and medium 
enterprises into the globalization agenda. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The overall development objective of this loan is to support growth and poverty alleviation by 
supporting the reform agenda focused on two main policy areas: (i) quality of fiscal management and (ii) 
competitiveness.  Under the administration of President García, Peru has faced the global crisis in a 
relatively solid position and has weathered the storm relatively well. Good macroeconomic 
fundamentals and appropriate policy responses to the crisis should moderate the negative impact of a 
weaker external demand and facilitate the absorption of external shocks. Aware of the downside risks to 
economic growth, poverty and employment, the GoP has proactively implemented temporary counter-
cyclical policies to mitigate the negative impact of the crisis. At the same time, the GoP has not lost 
sight of the medium-term objectives of its reform agenda, and has continued to make progress in 
improving the effectiveness of fiscal management and supporting the country’s competitiveness and 
integration into the global economy. These objectives continue to be at the center of the GoP’s reform 
agenda, and are supported by the proposed loan. In each of these policy areas (fiscal management and 
competitiveness), the GoP has implemented a series of policy and institutional reforms to progressively 
improve the quality of fiscal administration, public spending and the business climate in ways that will 
have a broad impact on growth and poverty alleviation.  
The proposed operation is for US$250 million and is designed as a DPL with Deferred Drawdown 
Option (DDO). The GoP has expressed its interest in utilizing the DDO option as a contingent line of 
credit, indicating that the loan will likely be fully disbursed in 2011.  The DDO modality will allow the 
GoP to pro-actively manage and absorb external shocks beyond the country’s currently available risk 
management tools. Peru is an appropriate MIC candidate for the DDO instrument given that it fulfills 
the main conditions stipulated by Bank policy: (i) macroeconomic policies have been disciplined and 
steady, and program implementation has been positive; (ii) the FMCDPL series supports critical core 
reforms related to poverty reduction through improved use of public resources and by increasing 
opportunities available to the poor to take part in the country’s economic growth; (iii) Peru is in 
excellent standing in the international markets, with its foreign currency debt rated investment grade by 
two major rating agencies;  and (iv) the proposed DDO component is supported by the overall CPS total 
lending amounts and partnership strategy. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed operation responds to the GoP’s request for Bank support for its public sector institutions, 
the administration reform program and the competitiveness agenda.  This operation is the second in a 
series of four loans, one per year, each marking progressively advanced stages in the reform program. 
The two broad areas addressed by the operation are: 
 
·
Efficiency  and Quality of Fiscal Management 
·
Competitiveness 
Page  3
The two areas of fiscal management and competitiveness are mutually reinforcing and offer a potentially 
significant payoff in terms of economic growth, social development and poverty reduction.  Strong fiscal 
management alone is a desirable end given that it maximizes the effectiveness of limited public 
resources and supports country competitiveness by generating private sector confidence in overall 
macroeconomic stability and the ability to undertake long-term investments and planning. Increased 
competitiveness improves the fiscal situation by generating increased tax revenues and decreasing the 
need for government intervention to stimulate economic growth.  Together, reforms in these two areas 
are strengthening the ability to achieve the GoP’s ultimate goal: accelerating and broadening economic 
growth to improve the standard of living of all Peruvians, especially the poor. The mix of overall 
macroeconomic policy stability with gradual reforms in a few key areas that the García administration 
has followed thus far has already shown positive results in terms of greater business creation and 
growth, generating optimism that these trends will continue going forward. Moreover, the combination 
of high growth with prudent fiscal/financial management will provide flexibility and space to address 
social needs. 
The programmatic approach taken by this loan series reflects the flexibility requested by the GoP to best 
address evolving challenges. By incorporating flexibility into the FMCDPL series within a defined 
policy framework, the Bank is serving the needs of Peru, a middle-income country with strong macro-
economic fundamentals now facing second and third generation reforms. While the broad outlines of the 
policy areas and directions were established from the start of this loan series and will remain throughout 
this and planned future operations, specific policy reforms have evolved along with Peru’s changing 
political and economic circumstances. The conditionality stipulated in the previous and current loan was 
designed in partnership with the GoP to target those areas most critical to continue and strengthen policy 
reforms in fiscal management and competitiveness.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
No significant environmental aspects are associated with this DPL operation.  The reforms supported by 
the program are related to the adoption of policies and only a few could have a future environmental 
impact.  In fact some of the proposed policy reforms under the proposed DPL are likely prove positive 
for environmental management, particularly related to improved monitoring and evaluation for 
government expenditure, including environmental expenditure.  These reforms could contribute in 
strengthening GoP’s ability to set clear environmental priorities, coordinate with environmental 
authorities on developing indicators to evaluate the impact of spending on achieving these priorities, and 
ensure that all sectors follow legal norms related to the environment.  The fiscal space created through 
making the budget and expenditure process more efficient could also serve to strengthen under-funded 
environmental spending.  
135. 
In the medium and long term, further trade liberalization and economic activity in Peru—by 
means of desirable growth and poverty reduction—would lead to greater infrastructure development.  
While the National Public Investment System (SNIP) does evaluate environmental considerations for 
each infrastructure project approved, this is done in an ex-ante manner.  The challenge regarding 
potential environmental impacts is during execution.  The Bank’s Country Environmental Assessment 
highlighted shortcomings in Peru’s institutional framework for environmental protection and 
sustainability. It also pointed to the need to continue protection efforts in natural areas such as tropical 
forests while mitigating the serious health impacts and high costs of environmental degradation, 
particularly in terms of air and water contamination.  As a result of this study and the ensuing dialogue 
with GoP, the Bank prepared a planned three-phase DPL operation on environmental policy, the first 
phase of which (for US$330 million) was approved by the Board in February 2009. The Bank and GoP 
are currently negotiating the second environmental DPL and expect to complete it by the end of 2009, 
Page  4
and a third is planned for the next year. The environmental DPLs focus on reordering the institutional 
and legal framework for environmental management through the new Ministry of Environment.  The 
creation of an adequate national-level authority to enforce environmental issues (Environmental 
Evaluation and Enforcement Office
—OEFA) is a major step, given that the system in place is 
fragmented and adversely affects the country’s ability to tackle numerous environmental challenges. An 
important trigger under the second environmental DPL is the approval of the regulation of the Law on 
the National System of Environmental Impact Assessment, which allows the Ministry of the 
Environment to review environmental impact assessments for large infrastructure/investment projects 
with potentially significant impacts. An Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant was awarded to 
promote capacity building within the key environmental authority.  The areas covered under the 
environmental DPL include implementing an updated mining environmental legacies (MELs) inventory 
and a national strategy for remediation of priority MELs, reducing air pollution through reduction of 
sulfur content in diesel to 50 ppm and promoting and implementing vehicle conversions to natural gas.  
Fiscal reforms are currently being designed (and will likely be implemented in 2009) to promote the use 
of newer cars, cleaner fuels, and vehicular conversion to natural gas. A conversion program is already 
underway, with nearly 70,000 vehicles converted to compressed natural gas use since 2008. In addition, 
the Bank has recommended that the authorities include environment and resource management in the 
desk evaluation pilots programmed for the next years.
 
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: IBRD 
Total (U$million): 250 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Paloma Anos Casero 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1780 
Email: panoscasero@worldbank.org 
 
Rossana Polastri 
Title: Country Manager, Paraguay 
Tel: (2595 21) 664000,  
Fax: (595 21) 664002 
Email:rpolastri@worldbank.org 
 
7. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
