Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22285
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-32080)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 36.9 MILLION (US$ 50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
03/22/2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = denar
MKD 1 = US$ 0.014
US$ = MKD 70.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Kyle Peters
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Erika Jorgensen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA
Emergency Recovery Credit
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P065834                                       Project Namee: Emergency Recovery
Team Leader: Erika A. Jorgensen                           TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 4, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Emergency Recovery                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-32080
CountrylDepartment: MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC                  Region: Europe and Central
OF                                                           Asia Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Non-Sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original           RevisedlActual
PCD:  04/07/1999                              Effective: 05/15/1999         06/17/1999
Appraisal:  04/13/1999                                MTR: 09/15/1999            01/24/2000
Approval:  05/13/1999                              Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF FYR MACEDONIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE/CENTRAL
BANK
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan Poortman                       Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:      Kyle Peters                                Kyle Peters
Team Leader at ICR:   Erika Jorgensen                          Erika Jorgensen
ICR Primary Author:   Erika Jorgensen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peiformance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Kosovo crisis in the spring of 1999 inflicted a severe strain on internal stability and economic
management in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR Macedonia). The country was forced to
absorb dramatic numbers of refugees from neighboring Kosovo. Nearly 600,000 refugees had fled into
FYR Macedonia from March 1998 through April 1999, equivalent to 8 percent of the population, and the
pressures of fast accelerating refugee arrivals from the end of March 1999 through April 1999 sorely tested
the logistical capabilities of the government, NGOs, and official organizations. Uncertain near-term
prospects for the refugees' departure raised the specter of domestic political unrest, threatening to unravel
substantial progress made towards the establishment of a multi-cultural democratic state. Moreover, trade
with and through neighboring Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY), FYR Macedonia's main trading
partner and critical trade route to the rest of Europe, had been deteriorating as fighting in Kosovo had
intensified. The de facto cessation of all economic relations with FRY by March 1999 dealt a severe blow
to a fragile economy. GDP growth had been modestly positive since 1996, but unemployment stayed
stubbornly above 30 percent of the workforce. The economy remained heavily dependent on traditional
markets, suppliers, and transit routes, because of its landlocked and relatively isolated geographical
position and limited foreign direct investment and development of new markets up to that point.
Assessments by the IMF and the Bank at the time of preparation of the Credit concluded that GDP could
fall by 9 percent and exports contract by one-third compared to baseline projections for 1999.
The Emergency Recovery Project, following OPIBP 8.50 on Emergency Recovery Assistance, was
designed to assist the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability while helping to make up for
export receipt shortfalls and reduced access to foreign borrowing and direct investment, allowing imports
critical to a resumption of growth. The Credit was intended to help maintain macroeconomic stability
despite serious external shocks and the prospect of depressed growth, rising balance of payments pressures,
and exceptional demands on public expenditures during a time of reduced possibilities for revenue
collection. While this type of operation does not include conditionality linked to macroeconomic policies,
IDA/Bank monitoring of economic developments and close collaboration with the IMF was intended to help
ensure adequate macroeconomic and fiscal diligence on the part of the Government. A proposed IMF
standby arrangement was also to support Government efforts to ensure macroeconomic stability during this
difficult period. (A SDR 13.78 million credit under the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
in August 1999 and ongoing discussions of a new Extended Fund Facility program were subsequently
substituted for the standby arrangement planned at the time of preparation of the Credit.) The IDA Credit
of SDR 36.9 million (S50 million equivalent) was to provide immediate support to finance a positive list of
imports needed to cope with the emergency while supporting macroeconomic objectives. It was designed to
be 100 percent quick disbursing, and its size was based on the Government's request and an assessment of
financing requirements for the balance of payments for 1999.
The limited objective of emergency recovery assistance (as defined in OP 8.50) is to help restore
quickly assets and production levels in the disrupted economy, in this case through the financing of critical
imports (as for the emergency operations the Bank provided in the wake of Hurricane Mitch in Central
America at the end of 1998). The operation was of low complexity and limited risk, despite its great
importance to the country, and it demonstrated the Bank's ability to respond quickly to borroWer
circumstances in a flexible way. With the approval of this operation by the Association's Board on May
13. 1999 (less than two months after the start of the conflict), the Bank Group became the first donor to
deliver substantial financial support to FYR Macedonia's Government after the Kosovo crisis.
Although this operation responded to an emergency situation, an emergency scenario arising from
- 2 -



growing tensions in Kosovo had been foreseen in the CAS endorsed by the Board on August 4, 1998 under
which an exceptional IDA allocation would be requested. The triggers in the CAS for moving into the
emergency scenario were a substantial inflow of refugees (20,000 or more); or large-scale military
mobilization; or re-imposition of sanctions on FR Yugoslavia. The first of these triggers was met and far
exceeded during the Kosovo crisis, providing the basis for a request for additional IDA funding of SDR
36.9 million for this operation and SDR 7.5 million for the Social Support Project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) contained a single component that financed a broad range
of critical imports by the private sector needed for the recovery effort. The positive list of imports eligible
for financing contained: construction materials; seeds; fertilizer; agricultural equipment, spare parts, and
inputs; construction equipment and industrial machinery; spare parts, raw materials, and intermediate
goods for industry and services; medical supplies and equipment; petroleum and fuel products, and coal;
and water and land transport vehicles.
The design of the project's single component was responsive to the Borrower's immediate need for
budget and balance of payments support and directly related to the project's objective of maintaining
macroeconomic stability and allowing growth to resume. The simplicity of the design ensured the project
was easily within the implementation capacity of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. The design
drew on the experience of emergency recovery projects in the Bank and, in particular, the experience in the
preparation and previous implementation of Bank/IDA operations in Central America following the
devastation of Hurricane Mitch in 1998. These lessons included:
1. successful implementation of recovery projects requires very early Bank Group involvement in defining
a recovery strategy;
2. rapid preparatoin is essential for emergency projects to have the needed impact, and normal Bank
guidelines and procedures could cause delays in project execution, making it necessary to design
special implementation and execution arrangements;
3. flexibility in the design of recovery projects is necessary to permit changes as project implementation
yields more information;
4. emergency support should pave the way for dealing with longer-term concems about structural reforms
and econommic growth; and
5. emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable, sharply focused, and not burdened with
conditionality.
The design of the ERC should also be viewed as the first part of a recovery strategy for FYR
Macedonia to respond to the effects of the Kosovo crisis. In addition to the immediate assistance provided
by the Credit, the Bank Group's strategy to assist FYR Macedonia included ongoing balance of payments
and budget assistance through the preparation of a Social Support Project (SDR 7.5 million, approved June
29, 1999) which aimed to help mitigate the negative social and economic impact of bankruptcy and labor
restructuring of state owned enterprises, which had been worsened by the economic disruption caused by
the conflict in Kosovo, through financing of severance and labor retraining; and continued preparation of
the Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan and Credit (US$ 30.31 million, and SDR
15.2 million or US$20 million equivalent, approved December 14, 2000) which supported strengthening of
the banking system, improving the business environment; and restructuring or closing of remaining large
lossmaking state owned enterprises. The strategy also included consideration of reallocating uncommitted
-3 -



funds of selected ongoing IDA operations, as advised in OP 8.50 on Emergency Assistance., and policy
advice on recovery and a return to growth and reform. Lastly, the strategy included special support to
refugees from the Bank's Post Conflict Fund (US$ 1 million approved April 27, 1999).
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
ICR - Hiahlv Satisfactory.    Quality at Entry is rated highly satisfactory, based on the strength
of (i) consistency of objectives with priorities of the government and in the CAS; (ii) project design, the
simplicity of which eased achievement of project objectives; and (iii) preparation which included
discussions with the government on design, priorities, and financing requirements. The major requirement
for success of this project was speed of preparation, and that was acheived.
The project's objectives were consistent with government priorities, which were to secure donor
financial support as soon as possible, and with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for FYR
Macedonia, discussed by the Board in August 1998, which included an emergency scenario under which
additional IDA funds for FYR Macedonia would provide support for critical imports, triggered by a
substantial inflow of refugees; large-scale military mobilization; or the reimposition of sanctions on FR
Yugoslavia.
The design of the project balanced the need for firm financial management and procurement
procedures against the need for speedy disbursement of funds, and the borrower suggested implementation
arrangements that would allow both goals to be achieved.
(AG - Satisfactory. A QAG assessment carried out in December 1999 rated Quality at Entry as
satisfactory, citing the operation as an appropriate and timely response to an emergency situation but
raising questions about the need for such stringent audit requirements and the appropriateness of ICB
procurement in an operation with retroactive financing. The QAG review commented that the operation
was prepared extremely quickly - in about 4 weeks from departure of the appraisal mission to Board and
with a modest budget of under $60,000. It also comnmended the support and early involvement of the
country management team in giving clear guidance to the project team, which enabled them to prepare this
emergency credit quickly. Given the concern in regard to macroeconomic stability and the decline in private
capital flows, the QAG assessment judged that a fast disbursing lending operation was the best vehicle; that
main objective of the operation-- to maintain macroeconomic stability-- was clear and the principal
country risks well identified.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Hiahlv Satisfactor . The project's outcome is highly satisfactory, having achieved its
development objectives. Financial support was provided quickly to the budget and the balance of
payments-- the Credit was 67 percent disbursed by September 30, 1999, 2.5 months after effectiveness.
(See Table 1 below). Macroeconomic stability was maintained and strengthened throughout the life of the
project. The recovery in trade and the excellent perfornance on reserve levels and controlling the fiscal
deficit in 1999 were better than forecast under this Credit, and performance improved further during 2000.
- 4 -



Table 1. Disbursement of the Credit
Date                  % of credit disbursed
June 30, 1999               0%
September 30, 1999          67%
December 31, 1999           81%
March 31, 2000              97%
June 30, 2000               99%
September 30, 2000         100%
Imports have recovered since the Kosovo crisis, to a great degree because of the provision of
international financial assistance. Imports had contracted by 25.3 percent in the second quarter of 1999
compared with a year earlier, after a 15.6 percent fall in the first quarter (only partly due to the crisis which
began in earnest in March). Then, as financing was made available and as exports recovered, imports rose
by 5.8 and 7.5 percent respectively in each of the last two quarters of the year. In total, imports were
compressed by just 6.4 percent in 1999, a far better outcome than feared at midyear. Further, 2000 saw
additional expansion of imports, by 17.2 percent for the year as a whole. The first quarter showed
particularly dramatic growth, as enterprises rebuilt inventories and cereal and oil imports resumed ahead of
the April 2000 imposition of a value-added tax, resulting in first quarter imports running 74.1 percent
above first quarter 1999 levels. (See Table 2 below).
This Credit was instrumental in setting the stage for substantial international financial assistance
during June-December 1999, with the Bank's ERC disbursement of $40.1 million, an IMF CCFF of $19
million equivalent (see Section 3. 1.), European Union grants of $15 million, other bilateral grants of about
$25 million, and Paris Club debt service payment deferral of $42 million. With the assistance that this
financing provided, the authorities were able to increase gross official reserve levels by about $150 million
during June-December, reaching 3 months of import equivalent by year-end. The fiscal deficit was kept
under control, mainly because of a heroic tax collection effort on the part of the government, and GDP
growth registered 2.7 percent for the year as a whole.
The import financing under the proposed credit provided timely balance of payments support to the
Government to allow for critical imports despite the damage to exports caused by ongoing unrest in
neighboring Kosovo. The counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided the
Government with an important source of non-inflationary finance at a time when there was need for
additional public spending and pressure on revenues due to lower economic growth. The balance of
payments support provided under this Credit contributed to maintaining macroeconomic stability while
improving productive capacity, and ensuring the adequate supply of essential equipment, materials and
commodities for the social and economic sectors. It complemented the support for short- and medium-term
recovery that provided through the restructuring/reprogramming of ongoing operations in the portfolio, and
assistance provided by other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
- 5 -



Table 2. Key Economic Indicators (1997-2000)
1997      1998       1999       1999      1999       2000
Pre-crisis   Estimate
estimate April 1999   Actual
GDP growth                                   1.5        2.9       5.0       -4.0        2.7       5.1
Inflation (end-year)                       3.2       -2.4       3.0        5.0        2.6       6.1
Unemployment rate                         36.0       34.5      34.3       36.5       32.4      32.2
Government budget balance (% of GDP)        -1.2       -0.8      -0.2       -5.2        0.8       2.8
Total revenues and grants                 20.8       20.9      20.2       20.9       24.2      28.1
Total expenditures                        22.0       21.7      20.4       26.1       23.4      25.3
Current account balance (% of GDP)          -7.4       -8.8      -6.7      -14.6       -4.0       -3.7
Export growth                              7.8        4.4       5.6      -31.1       -7.7      10.7
Import growth                             10.9        5.4       4.0      -11.0       -6.4      17.2
Debt service (% ofexports)                 8.7       10.1      13.1       21.4       13.0      11.8
Official reserves (months of imports)      1.8        2.0       2.3        2.5        3.0       3.9
4.2 Outputs by components:
See Section 4.1 above, since the project had only one component. Further, performance indicators
were selected for outcomes/impact rather than for outputs. See Annex 1 for the Key Performance
Indicators Table. However, performance indicators were difficult to select for this project. The project
team wanted to demonstrate an impact beyond simple disbursement of the Credit, and although it was
difficult to argue that the project could have had any significant direct impact on macroeconomic
indicators, the team included these broad indicators since the project was part of a larger strategy of
support by the Bank Group and by the international donor community to FYR Macedonia as it recovered
from the Kosovo crisis.
Although the impact of the Credit is better measured by improved confidence and overall funding
flows to the country, the small but direct impact of the Credit can be tracked based on the categories of
imports financed. Annex 2 contains a table "Project Financing by Component" which shows that almost a
third of disbursements financed imports of construction equipment and industrial machinery, more than 20
percent funded spare parts, raw materials, and intermediate goods for industry and services, and over 15
percent paid for medical supplies and equipment.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
- 6 -



The main factors outside the control of the goverment influencing achievement of the project
objective of improved macroeconomic stability and resumption of growth was the duration of the refugees'
stay in the country and the timing and nature of the resolution of the status of neighboring Kosovo. A
prolonged crisis could well have created an increasingly unstable political climate with both a deterioration
in govemance and a loss of macroeconomic stability. If the Kosovo conflict had continued for many
months, its debilitating effects on the Macedonian economy would have spiralled, requiring additional
interventions by the international donor community. The relatively speedy cessation of hostilities in
Kosovo and the return of most refugees greatly improved prospects for FYR Macedonia. The flood of
international assistance, accompanied by personnel, to Kosovo proved a boon to its neighbor, which
provided a staging area for Kosovo operations and sold goods (especially food products) and
transportation, financial, and other services to Kosovo.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government conttrol:
The Government's main contribution was strong macroeconomic management, reflected in the
maintainance of looser but generally controlled fiscal policy and firm monetary policy, during and in the
aftermath of the Kosovo crisis. Economic outcomes for 1999 were much better than predicted after the
crisis began, with GDP growth, inflation, international reserves, the fiscal and current account deficits all
at reasonable levels. (See Table 1 in Section 4.1) Even with the sudden increase in spending, the central
government deficit registered a small surplus in 1999 of 0.8 percent of GDP (compared with a slight deficit
of 0.8 percent of GDP in 1998), reflecting an inflow of foreign grants and strong tax collection. The
external current account deficit was 4.0 percent of GDP despite trade losses in the first half of the year
because of a strong recovery in exports in the second half and the inflow of foreign grants.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemienting agency control:
Strong macroeconomic management, as mentioned above, was a key role for the implementing
agencies, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. In addition, good financial and project
management were important for the successful implementation of the project. The Implementation
Agreement reflected the sharing of implementation responsibilities between the Ministry of Finance and the
National Bank, and the two entities cooperated fully throughout implementation. Disbursement
applications were prepared in a timely manner. Audit reports have been prepared and forwarded to IDA,
although with some delay. The credit was fully disbursed by early July 2000, 6 months ahead of the
closing date.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The size of the credit was set at SDR 36.9 million (US$50 million equivalent) based on the
Goveniment's request for emergency assistance and an assessment of the adverse effects of the Kosovo
crisis on the balance of payments after taking account of the assistance expected from the IMF, EU, and
other donors. The credit financed 100 percent of the delivered cost of eligible imports by the private sector
on a positive list, excluding import duties and taxes. Consistent with the emergency nature of the support,
procurement and disbursement arrangements were simplified and streamlined to the extent feasible, while
seeking to ensure that overall concerns about due diligence, transparency, and avoiding corruption were
addressed. Given the nature of the credit, with full disbursement, the actual outcome by definition matched
the original financing arrangements.
-7-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabiliv r-ating:
Likelv. The Project was designed to sustain macroeconomic stability in the short term so that the
government could turn its attention back to completion of needed structural reforms necessary for
macroeconomic stability in the longer run. It was hoped that the country would not simply be returned to
its state prior to the crisis but that improvements in the environment for private sector development,
macroeconomic management, and public expenditures would ensure higher economic growth into the
future. An IMF CCFF Credit of SDR 13.78 million in August 1999 provided further resources for
short-term support. (See Section 3.1.) With stable and improving economic outcomes in 1999 and the
reinvigoration of the government's structural reform program in 2000, a new IMF program was approved
in November 2000, and the Bank's Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit/Loan II was
approved in December 2000, both now providing ongoing support for macroeconomic management and
structural reforms. However, macroeconomic stability has recently come under threat because of military
clashes inside FYR Macedonia between ethnic Albanian guerillas and government forces that began in
March 2001 and resulting high tensions between the Albanian and Macedonian communities. Sharply
higher military and security spending, ongoing disruption to normal business activities, and the prospect of
a possibly costly political settlement have darkened the economic picture for 2001 considerably.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Leniding:
Hiahlv satisfactory. IDA's response to the Kosovo crisis was fast. The Bank Group provided
leadership within the internaitonal financial community for the provision of non-humanitarian assistance.
The Bank/Association correctly identified the need for quick-disbursing balance of payments support, to
assist the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability, as a fundamental component of its
emergency assistance stategy. The Bank/Association then acted very quickly to identify the most
appropriate project concept based on best practice in the institution and then adapt that concept to FYR
Macedonia's particular needs and requirements. The Country Director named an ad hoc advisory
committee to advise on the Bank's response to the emergency; as recommended in BP 8.50, and Bank staff
with experience in providing emergency assistance to Central America in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch
were named peer reviewers. By following best practice experience within the Bank Group at the time, the
Bank/Association was able to bring the Credit to the Board of Directors only 4 weeks after the combined
identification-preparation-appraisal mission's departure and just 6 weeks after the government's request for
emergency assistance. The Bank's Executive Directors also helped to expedite this assistance to FYR
Macedonia by agreeing to review the credit package in only 10 working days, rather than the standard 13
working days.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. IDA supervision requirements were fully met. Supervision was generally carried out in
conjunction with normal macroeconomic monitoring, keeping supervision coefficients moderately low. The
- 8 -



Resident Mission responded to inquiries on the disbursement process and financial management issues.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. IDA made a significant contribution to FYR Macedonia's recovery from the Kosovo
crisis. This project signalled the beginning of a more productive phase of relations between the Bank
Group and the country, leading to recovered lending levels in FY01. The credit also provided an important
signal to the international community about IDA's strong support to the country. Donor support followed,
with pledges totalling $250 million at a May 1999 Joint G-24/Consultative Group Meeting for Macedonia
and, in particular, the IMF (with a CCFF Credit of $19 million equivalent), the Paris Club (which deferred
debt payments of $42 million for one year), and the EU, the US. and the Netherlands as major donors.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank coordinated well, defining and assigning
among themselves their respective project managment responsibilities, which were reflected in the
Implementation Agreement.
7.5 Government imnpleinentation performance:
Satisfactory. Government commitment to the project and its objectives was high. Macroeconomic
management has been strong. Project implementation was good overall.
7.6 Implemnenting Agency
See para. 7.5 above.
7.7 Overall Borrower petjorniance:
Satisfactory. Overall borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
One lesson from this operation, described in the QAG Quality at Entry Assessment, is that in an
emergency project, where quick disbursement is crucial, the general principles of financial mangement
cannot be strictly applied because they would delay disbursement. The QAG report noted that, "There is
an understandable concern to ensure transparency in the auditing arrangements. Yet, in a country where
internal controls in the Central Bank are considered generally adequate, insisting as a condition of
effectiveness, 'that independent auditors... have been retained...' may only jeopardize quickly achieving the
emergency credit's main objective of macroeconomic stability -- for little benefit in return." The QAG
report concluded that a dated covenant might have been more appropriate, noting that while appraisal to
Board approval was achieved in less than 6 weeks, Board approval to effectiveness took more than 2
months.
-9-



Another lesson is that since the amount of the credit was small compared with annual imports of
about $1.7 billion (i.e., equivalent to about 10 days of imports), it is difficult to provide benchmarks or
meaningful performance indicators against which to measure the real impact of the operation. The two
main performance indicators (reserves not less than 2 months of imports, and public expenditure not to
exceed 5 percent of GDP in 1999) cannot be considered a direct outcome of this operation given the
modest amount of the credit in relation to overall imports and govemment's budget. For an emergency
credit of this kind, more appropriate indicators of overall impact might have been the timeliness of the
Bank response and the speed of disbursements, both of which were highly responsive to the country's
needs.
A final lesson is about the financial covenants in the Development Credit Agreement which were
likely stricter than necessary. In particular, the requirement of quarterly audits increased considerably the
cost of project administration for the Borrower and implied that the Association deemed the project's
financial management and intemal control arrangements to be insufficient to produce adequate quarterly
Project Management Reports. A more economical approach would have been limited quarterly reviews by
the auditor to verfy the soundness of accounting procedures and identify any improvements in financial
management procedures necessary to ensure high quality year-end accounts.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrown'er/inmplemnenting agency:
The project
The Emergency Recovery Credit was approved by the World Bank (International
Development Association) on May 13, 1999, in the amount of SDR 36.9 million (US$50 million
equivalent), signed on May 24, 1999, and became effective on August 26, 1999.
Project description
The Emergency Recovery Credit provided immediate, quick-disbursing support to finance
a positive list of imports needed for the recovery effort while supporting macroeconomic objectives. The
project provided assistance for a broad range of imports by the private sector, especially imported
production inputs and imported capital equipment. The funds from the use of foreign exchange for private
sector imports went to support the general government budget.
The project objectives
The Emergency Recovery Credit assisted in maintaining macroeconomic stability and
supporting economic growth despite the severe trade disruption and the large inflows of refugees due to the
Kosovo conflict. The credit was design to maintain macroeconomic stability despite serious extemal
shocks and rising balance of payment pressures.
Project organization
The project was implemented by the Ministry of Finance with close collaboration with the
National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia.
The Ministry of Finance for the purpose of the project opened and maintained in US
- 1 0 -



dollars a Special Deposit Account in the National Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Positive results
The project enabled financing of necessary imports despite the sharp drop in exports and
the decline in private capital inflows. The expected benefits were quickly realized, and the financed
imports, being largely investment and intermediate goods, have had a positive longer-term effect, as well as
being a key component of the overall macroeconomic policy being implemented in the Republic of
Macedonia.
Weaknesses in implementation and lessons learned
The factors having influence over the implementation of the project have arisen out of the
political instability of the region and other extemal conditions. The Kosovo crisis directly influenced
incremental budget expenditures caused by the increased inflow of refugees in the country, distortion in the
trade balance and the balance of payments, blocked transport corridors to the rest of the world, and closure
of the export market.
Project realization
The actual realization of the credit commenced during the month of July 1999, i.e., one
month prior to the effectiveness of the credit in August. The agreement was concluded between the
Government of the Republic of Macedonia represented by the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank
of the Republic of Macedonia as Bank Agent of the Borrower.
Starting 1 st July 1999, when the first disbursement of credit funds was made, up to the last one in
July 2000, several applications were submitted by the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia.
The funds from the first disbursement were transferred to the special account on 16th July 1999,
amounting to SDR 15,051,627.08 or US$20,000,000 equivalent.
The National Bank withdrew funds by submitting separate applications accompanied by
SOE reports indicating all data presented in the form itself, and referring to the completed import of goods.
As an attachment to the applications, Special Account Reconciliation Statements and the last balance of the
special account opened at the National Bank were enclosed.
All funds were disbursed on the basis of the completed import of goods by private companies from
the Republic of Macedonia, according to the criteria determined in the agreed list of goods. According to
this:
- the realized amounts do not exceed the allowed limit under any category (aggregate amount
equivalent to 50% of the amount of the credit for any category of eligible import) pursuant to Schedule 1,
item 3(d) of the Credit Agreement;
- no withdrawal were made in respect to expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than US$2000 pursuant to Schedule I item 3b of the Credit Agreement;
- the realized amount do not cover the expenditures for used or luxury goods pursuant to Schedule
1, item 3(e) of the Credit Agreement.
- 11 -



Also, it can be pointed out that all withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account were
made pursuant to Schedule 1 item 3c and item 4 of the Credit Agreement.
The categories of goods imported by private companies on the basis of prior import
agreement are the following:
Goods falling under the category of construction equipment and industrial machinery were
imported the most, followed by:
-      spare parts, raw materials and intermediate goods for industry and services;
medical supplies and equipment;
construction materials;
-      water and land transport vehicles; and
-      agriculture equipment, spare parts and inputs.
The National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia enabled the Ministry of Finance to have insight
into the realization of the credit funds on regular basis by submitting reports accompanied by appropriate
tables at the end of each quarter.
As for the dynamics of using the funds, it can be said that it moved according to plan, and no
problems existed, i.e., there were no delays in the World Bank Disbursement Department transferring funds
on the special account.
TIhe fast and efficient approval of such credit by the World Bank was a significant support offered
to the Government of the Republic of Macedonia at a time when it was needed the most.
We would like to emphasize the efficient influence that the World Bank staff had in taking part in
the project preparation and imiplementation.
(b) Colfinanciers:
N/A
fc) Other partners (NVGOsprivate sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicatorlMatrx                      Projected In last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estmate
Imports in the critical areas identified in the   Imports totalled $1601 million in 1999  Imports in 2000 totalled $1876 million.
Credit are purchased, allowing disbursement
of the Credit.
Short-term support for the balance of  By September 1999, 67% disbursed and    Fully disbursed as of July 6, 2000.
payments and the budget is provided, as    fully disbursed as of July 6. 2000.
evidenced by quick disbursement, with much
of the Credit accessed by September 1999.
Pressure on the exchange rate because of   Exchange rate remains at 31 denars/DM  Exchange rate remained at 31 denars/DM
an insufficient supply of foreign exchange    throughout 1999.                 throughout 2000.
lessens.
Industrial production rose 19% in the second Industrial production rose by 3.5% for 2000,
Evidence of recovery in key production  half of 1999 compared with the first halft and and exports rose by 10.7%.
sectors and in exports in the second half of  exports grew by 36% percent compared with
1999.                                  the first half.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Pro          in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 13-.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Esimae    = stimate             Appraigesol
Critical imports                                          50.00            49.80              100
Total Baseline Cost                                       50.00            49.80
Total Project Costs                50.00            49.80
Total Financing Required                 50.00             49.80
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure Categories          Procurement Method              Actual Project Costs
(in US$ million equivalent)
Commodities for private    Through established commodity
sector contracts valued at or   markets, or other channels of
more than $5 million       competitive procurement as defined in          $0.0
Clause 2.65 of IDA's Procurement
Guidelines.
Commodities for private     Based on established commercial
sector contracts valued less    practices.                                $4.8
than $5 million
Goods for private sector   Simplified ICB procedures under
contracts valued at or more  Clauses 2.63 and 2.64 of IDA's               $0.0
than $3 million            Procurement Guidelines
Goods for private sector   Based on established commercial
contracts valued less than $3   practices.                               $45.0
million
Total                                                                    $49.8
Note: Estimated from information on eligible imports categorized by tariff line.
Project Financing by Component
Component                                                        Actual Project Costs
(in US$ million equivalent)
Critical Imports, of which:                                         49.8
1. Construction materials                                              5.9
- 14 -



2. Seeds                                                                     0.0
3. Fertilizer                                                                0.0
4. Agriculture equipment, spare parts, and inputs                            4.5
5. Construction equipment and industrial machinery                           15.8
6. Spare parts, raw materials, and intermediate goods for                    10.5
industry and services
7. Medical supplies and equipment                                            8.1
8. Petroleum and fuel projects, and coal                                     0.0
9. Water and land transport vehicles                                         5.2
Total                                                                    49.8
- 15-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 16 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I PMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparatfon
04/99                       6   1 Senior Economist,
I Operations Officer (field
office),
1 Program Officer (field office),
I Financial Analyst
I Research Analyst,
I Procurement Analyst.
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/99                            Not applicable - see below
Supervision
6/99                        2   1 Senior Economist,                  S              HS
I Senior Counsel
9/99                         3   1 Senior Economist,                 S              HS
I Operations Officer (field
office),
I Program Officer (field office).
1/00                        2   1 Senior Economist,                  S              HS
I Operations Officer (field
office).
ICR
04/01                            Not applicable - see below
Note: Because the operation was emergency assistance, identification, preparation, and appraisal were
combined into a single mission. Negotiations were held by teleconference from Washington. The draft ICR
was discussed during a mission under another task code and by email.
(b) Staff
Stage of Projet Cycle                     ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USs$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                7.7                         16.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     14.0                        19.7
Supervision                              27.6                         64.4
ICR                                       6.7                         21.5
Total                                    55.9                        121.8
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El SectorPolicies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Physical                                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
ElFinancial                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
El Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El PovertyReduction                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
CJ Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  O SU OM  O N  * NA
-18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
N Lending                                            *HSOS Ou OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
• Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
• Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
• Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O U   O HU
• Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 19-



