Report No. PID7576
PID7576.TXT
Project Name                     Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of-...
Emergency Recovery Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       MKPE65834
Borrower                         Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, assisted by National
Bank
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           April 9, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 7, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         April 13, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 13, 1999
Emergency Situation
1.      The large and ongoing movement of refugees from neighboring Kosovo into
northern FYR Macedonia and the trade disruptions resulting from the renewed
embargo on Former Yugoslavia have created an emergency situation in FYR
Macedonia as well as in other countries of the region, particularly Albania.
The UNHCR estimates that over 600,000 people have fled Kosovo since March
1998, of which 136,000 have been registered as refugees in FYR Macedonia as
of April 7. In particular, the pressures of fast accelerating refugee
arrivals since the last week of March have sorely tested the Government's and
NGOs' logistical capabilities and raise the specter of domestic political
unrest. In addition to the extreme challenge created for humanitarian
efforts, these recent events have begun to threaten the country's
macroeconomic stability.
Economic Effects
2.      The conflict in Kosovo has blocked FYR Macedonia's main transport
corridor to the rest of the world as well as closing off its second largest
export market, Former Yugoslavia. Further, the financial burden of such
large numbers of refugees is creating severe pressures on macroeconomic
stability by undermining FYR Macedonia's prospective external financing and
investment environment for the near term while increasing demands on the
budget. Export losses were already apparent last year, but they have
ballooned in the first two months of 1999, with sales to Former Yugoslavia
(which last year absorbed 18 percent of FYR Macedonia's exports) running at
only half the level of a year earlier and all exports down 13 percent.
Diversion to alternate markets will be difficult since many products are
oriented to the Yugoslav market and many require specialized imported inputs
from Yugoslav suppliers. Even under quite optimistic assumptions, the
current account balance is likely to register about the same deficit as last



year, rather than the $40 million improvement expected before the emergency.
Even more worrying is the likely impact on capital flows to FYR Macedonia:
direct and portfolio investment will likely be negligible this year. Trade
losses have already hit overall industrial production, with January over
January output down by 22 percent.
3.      Lower GDP growth this year, of perhaps 3 percent in real terms instead
of 5 percent, would then be expected to undercut tax revenues by over $10
million. Without fiscal adjustment, the budget deficit for 1999 could swell
towards 2 percent of GDP, even with generous humanitarian relief efforts
providing for much of the direct needs of refugees, while the resulting
balance of payments financing gap for 1999 could amount to $100-125 million.
(Economic impact will be assessed more carefully during appraisal.)
Response of the Government and the International Community
4.      The Government of FYR Macedonia and local NGOs have mobilized their own
logistical and financial resources to attempt to provide for the orderly
registration and the immediate needs for food and shelter of the tens of
thousands of refugees streaming across the border. UNHCR is leading the
international humanitarian effort, with substantial EU involvement. In
addition to its recent package of humanitarian aid and its assistance under
PHARE, the European Union has promised EU 25 million in complementary balance
of payments support to FYR Macedonia over the next few months. Other
bilateral and multilateral donors are also providing extensive humanitarian
relief and also some economic aid, but the overall amounts are not yet
finalized. The IMF is working on a program, either a continuation of the
existing ESAF or a new stand-by arrangement to provide roughly the same
amount of financial support to the Government this year as was planned under
the ESAF. IDA and IBRD staff moved quickly to help the Government coordinate
economic aid with other donors: an emergency donors meeting on the Kosovo
crisis and its impact on the region was held at the World Bank on April 2,
1999; and the Bank is organizing an emergency consultative group meeting in
early May, co-chaired with the EU, to mobilize additional economic aid.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
5.      The Association received a formal request from the Government of FYR
Macedonia on March 29, 1999 for emergency assistance as agreed in the latest
CAS. An emergency scenario arising from growing tensions in Kosovo was
included in the CAS for FYR Macedonia (July 14, 1998), allowing for
flexibility on IDA funding in case of this sort of external development. All
three of the triggers defined in the CAS, any one of which would indicate an
emergency, have been met: the inflow of refugees may soon approach ten times
the level considered burdensome in the CAS; large-scale military mobilization
with impacts on the budget and climate for foreign investment is underway;
and FYR Macedonian export channels through Federal Yugoslavia are seriously
impeded. With the IMF also responding quickly to the needs of the Government
for speedy economic aid, bilateral donors and other multilateral agencies
already pledging humanitarian and economic aid, and an emergency consultative
group meeting planned for early March, the international community as a whole
is already stepping forward to assist FYR Macedonia.
Project Objectives
-2-



6.      The proposed Emergency Recovery Project, following OP/BP 8.50 on
Emergency Recovery Assistance, would assist the Government in maintaining
macroeconomic stability while helping to make up for export receipt
shortfalls and reduced access to foreign borrowing and direct investment,
allowing imports critical to a resumption of growth. The Credit is designed
to : (i) maintain macroeconomic stability despite serious external shocks,
depressed growth, rising balance of payments pressures, and exceptional
demands on public expenditures during a time of reduced possibilities for
revenue collection; (ii) encourage an orderly public expenditure pattern
during a period of crisis; (iii) help safeguard public institutions so that
the Government's reform agenda can be resumed as soon as possible; and, (iv)
establish a vehicle for parallel balance of payments financing by other
donors. While this type of operation does not include conditionality linked
to macroeconomic policies, IDA/Bank monitoring of economic developments and
close collaboration with the IMF will help ensure adequate macroeconomic and
fiscal diligence on the part of the Government. The IDA Credit, of $40
million equivalent and 100 percent quick disbursing, based on the
Government's request and an assessment of requirements (to be made during
appraisal), will provide immediate support to finance a positive list of
imports needed to cope with the emergency while supporting macroeconomic
objectives.
7.      Besides the assistance under this proposed emergency recovery
operation, IDA and IBRD, in coordination with other multilateral agencies and
bilateral donors, is also assisting with recovery through existing IDA-
financed projects in the portfolio. IDA staff are working with counterpart
Government agencies and other development partners to consider how existing
IDA operations might provide for the urgent social and infrastructure needs
arising from the current crisis, including release of the second tranche of
the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (totaling $15 million equivalent). IDA
is also working to accelerate preparation of the Financial and Enterprise
Adjustment Loan. However, funds from these sources are judged to be
inadequate to cover the recovery needs of FYR Macedonia; thus, this new
Emergency Recovery Project is being prepared.
8.      Despite the current emergency, the Government has reaffirmed its desire
to accelerate delayed structural reforms as soon as possible, and IDA/IBRD
stands ready to assist with policy advice and adjustment and investment
operations. The Government has indicated that it stands ready to press on
with structural reforms in the enterprise, banking and social sectors. It
has also already taken far-reaching measures to reform trade and agricultural
pricing policies and to extend privatization to socially-owned enterprises in
agriculture.
Implementation Arrangements
9.      The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close
collaboration with the National Bank since it will largely support import
financing requirements. The credit will finance 100 percent of the delivered
cost of general imports by the public and private sectors, excluding import
duties and taxes, subject to a positive list to be agreed with the
Government. Twenty percent of the credit will be used for retroactive
financing of expenditures. Adequate reporting and auditing will be provided
by the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, with the assistance of an
independent auditing agency. Procurement and disbursement arrangements will
- 3 -



be designed in compliance with OP/BP 8.50. The project will be implemented
over a one year period and is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
Major Benefits and Risks
10.     The import financing under the proposed credit will provide timely
balance of payments support to the Government to allow for critical imports
despite the damage to exports caused by ongoing unrest in neighboring Kosovo.
The counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange will provide
the Government with an important source of non-inflationary finance at a time
when there will be need for additional public spending and pressure on
revenues due to lower economic growth. The balance of payments support to be
provided under this credit will be critical in maintaining macroeconomic
stability while improving productive capacity, and ensuring the adequate
supply of essential equipment, materials and commodities for the social and
economic sectors. It will complement the support for short- and medium-term
recovery that will be provided through the restructuring/reprogramming of
ongoing operations in the portfolio, and assistance provided by other
multilateral and bilateral agencies.
11.     The major risks of the operation are that even this simplified
arrangement may prove difficult for an overburdened government and
disbursement will be unduly delayed; and that the Kosovo conflict may
continue over a protracted period time with continued debilitating effects on
FYR Macedonia and the region, requiring additional interventions by the
international donor community.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Erika Jorgensen, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-5343
Fax No.:         (202) 522-2755
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 23, 1999.
- 4 -



