Domuusnt ot
The World Bank
FOR OFFICILI USE ONLY
Report No. P-4282-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 34.7 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TAN7ANIA
FOR A
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 10, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS a/
Currency Unit   -   Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00   -   US$ 0.0609
US$ 1.00   -   TSh 16.415
US$ 1.00   =   SDR 0.87
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Authority
EIB     -   European Investment Bank
ESMAP   -   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
CASCO   -   Gas Corporation
GWh     -   gigawatt hour
ICS     -   Interconnected System
kV      -   kilovolt
.kWh    -   kilowatt hour
LPG     -   Liquefied Petroleum Gas
i3      -   cubic meter
MEM     -   Ministry of Energy and Minerals
M.RT    -   Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
MH      -   megawatt
MWh     -  megawatt hour
NJUWA    -   National Urban Water Aluthority
SIDA    -   Swedish International Development Agency
TAC     -   Tanzania Audit Corporation
TANESCO -   Tanzania Electricity Supply Company, Limited
TARECO  -   Tanzania Rural Electrification Corporation
TPnC    -   Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
tpy     -   tons per year
TTI     -   Technician Training Institute
TIPER   -   Tanzanian and Italian Refining Company, Ltd.
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Prog-am
FISCAL YEAR
United Republic of Tanzania - July 1 to June 30
TANESCO                      -  Calendar Year
a/ As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket
of the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this



FOR OFFICAUL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
POWER RERABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrower:             United Republic of Tanzania.
Beneficiaries:        The Tanzania Electric Supply Company, Limited
(TANESCO), the Ministry of Energy and Minerals (MEM)
and the National Urban Water Authority (NUWA).
Credit Amount:        SDR 34.7 million (USS40 million equivalent).
Terms:                Standard.
Re-lending Terms:     The Government would onlend US$37.3 million out of the
proceeds of the credit to TANESCO at an interest rate
of 9Z over 20 years, with 4 years of grace, TANESCO to
bear the foreign exchange risk; and make available
US$2.4 million to MM and US$0.3 million to NUIA, both
as grants.
Cofinancing:          The United Republic of Tanzania is arranging 1.ofinanc-
ing as follows: grants from the Governments of Canada
(USS10.2 million equivalent), Finland (US$2.3 million
equivalent), and Norway (US$8.3 million equivalent);
and a loan from the European Investment Bank (US$6
million equivalent). An additional amount of cofinan-
cing for about US$10.6 million is being sought, but
for which commitments have not yet been confirmed.
Project Objectives:   The main objectives of the proposed project are (i) to
help restore Tanzania's power system, which is in
uirgent need of rehabilitation, to reasonable levels of
reliability and service, and (ii) to encourage effi-
cient domestic energy resource development and manage-
ment. The proposed project would re-establish the
operating performance of TANESCO'sa power system and
assist in improving its financial performance through
appropriate pricing policies. It would also help the
Government and TANESCO to develop an invest- ment
program for the power sector based on least-cost
criteria, consistent with Tanzania's available finan-
cial and foreign exchange resources. It is also
designed to improve availability and production of
household energy supplies bv pilot activities in more
efficient commercial charcoal and charcoal stove pro-
duction.
Th documant has aurictd diubuton and may be =ud by rcipiets only in the performance 
of thdk official dutiteL It oonte nsmy not otherfwi be disconed wnthout World Bank autinatin.



- ii -
Project Description:  The project comprises, for the power subsector:
rehabilitation of nower stations with a total name-
plate rating of about 120 MW; rehabilitation of
existing transmission lines, substations and distri-
bution networks; improvement of associated communica-
tions facilities and supply of transport, spares and
tools. Technical assistance would be provided for
project implementation, financial operations,
engineering and training programs in all areas of
TANESCO's operations. For the other energy sector
components, the project comprises: two or three
commercial-sized pilot charcoal production operations
based on the use of natural forests that have to be
cleared for agricultural purposes; training of char-
coal cooker manufacturers and artisans in production
and dissemination of improved cookers; and a study of
the feasibility of manufact-nring or importing low-
cost electric cookers. For UVWA, the project would
provide technical support to improve its billing and
collection procedures to ensure more timely repayment
of its debts to TANESCD.
Project Risks:        The major risk is financial.  The projected load
growth and TANESCO revenues take the existing
depressed state of the Tanzanian economy into con-
sideration and also assume that it will continue for
the immediate future. As a result, high tariff
increases are required in order to provide adequate
cash generation for TANESCO's overall operations and
investments (even with an investment program that has
been curtailed). A 672 tariff increase has recently
been implemented and a semi-annual tariff review and
adjustment mechanism is provided for under the
project. No major physical risks are anticipated in
implementing the proposed project. The charcoal
cookers and production components depend on a newly-
created organization for their management. This
risk, as well as the problem of designing a workable
arrangement between Government-supported training and
financing activities and initiatives for private
sector operation and marketing, would be reduced by
the involvement of Tanzanian institutions experienced
in private enterprise development and from experience
from ongoing similar projects in other African
countries.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs: a/                   Local       Foreign       Total
- -US$ million-
Power Components:
Generation                                 0.4          8.5           8.9
Transmission                               0.4          3.9           4.3
Transmission Substations                   0.3          2.9           3.2
Distribution                               5.1         24.8          29.9
Telecommunications                         0.1          1.2           1.4
Workshops                                  1.7          8.0           9.7
Training & Technical Assistance            0.7          6.4           7.1
Tech. Asst. and Eqpt. for Acctg. Dept.   -              2.4           2.4
Engineering                                -            1.4           1.4
Sub-total Base Cost                 8.7        59.6          68.3
Physical Contingencies                 0.9          5.7           6.6
Price Contingencies                    1.6          9.4          11.0
Power Total Cost                   11.2        74.7          85.9
Energy Components:
Pilot Charcoal Manufacturing Program       0.6          0.3           0.9
Charcoal Cooker Program                    0.4          0.3           0.7
Feasibility Study for
Electric Cookers                         -            0.1           0.1
Energy Management                                       0.1           0.1
Unallocated                                -            0.2           0.2
Sub-total Base Cost                 1.0          1.0          2.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.1          0.1           0.2
Price Contingencies                    0.1          0.1           0.2
Energy Total Cost                   1.2          1.2           2.4
Technical Assistance to NUWA                 -            0.3           0.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST a/              12.4        76.2          88.6
Interest During Construction                14.0          -            14.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENT        26.4        76.2         102.6
a/ Net of duties and taxes, which are minimal, since TANESCO is exempt.



- iv -
Local       Foreign       Total
- -       USSilIiion
Financing Plan:
Sources:
IDA                                         1.2         38.8          40.0
Canada                                      -           10.2          10.2
Finland                                     -            2.3           2.3
European Investment Bank                    -            6.0           6.0
Norway                                                   8.3           8.3
Other Cofinanciers (tentative)              -           10.6          10.6
TANESCO                                    11.2          -            11.2
Government                                 14.0                       14.0
TOTAL                          26.4         76.2         102.6
m              _m
Estimated Disbursements:          IDA FY   87           88          89        90
-              -US$ million
Annual                           14.9        14.8         7.4       2.9
Cumulative                       14.9        29.7        37.1      40.0
Economic Rate of Return: About 122
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 6026-TA, dated April 10, 1986
Map:                         IBRD No. 16231R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 34.7 million (US$40.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Power Rehabilitation
Project. US$37.3 million would be relent to the Tanzania Electric Supply
Company, Limited (TANESCO) at an idterest rate of 9% for 20 years, including 4
years of grace. TANESCO would bear the foreign exchange risk. In addition, the
United Republic of Tanzania is arranging cofinancing with the Governments of
Canada, Finland and Norway, and with the European Investment Bank.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA), based on
the work of an economic mission which visited the country in September/October
1983, was issued in August 1984. Subsequently, economic missions have visited
the country in September and December 1985. A Country Economic Memorandum based
on th. findings of these missions is currently under preparation. A Summary of
Social and Economic Data is in Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest countries
in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture and a few
estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial base, which accounted for
less than 5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and a very small number of edu-
cated and trained personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the
Government's development objectives resembled those of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-sufficiency
in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital intensive agricultural
projects. This approach has a number of drawbacks, such as high investment
costs in the agricultural sector. It led, in the Government's view, to
unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as widening income differen-
tials and unequal opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response
to this situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in 1967. The
new priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy state-
ments, were directed toward establishing a socialist society, with emphasis on
broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and mass
education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with guidance from the Party,
was expected to play the leading role, especially in the reform and creation of
appropriate institutions. This led in the late 1960s to the nationalization of
large-scale industry, commerce and finance, the creation of numerous parastatal
bodies, the formation of Ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of
Government (1972), and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
/ Parts I and II of this Report are substantially similar to the cor-
responding parts of the President's Report for the Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project being circulated at the about same time as this
Report.



- 2 -
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Since Independence,
primary school enrollment increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose
by almost 5 years, and access to safe water increased in both the rural and
urban areas. GDP grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment
averaged 24% of GDP from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization
improved with recurrent revenues rising as a proportion of GDP from 15% in
1967/68 to 19% in the mid-1970s. However, the productive sectors grew
slowly and the rate of return on new investments (which were concentrated
on the industry and transport sectors) was poor. Perhaps the principal
disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector of the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973. Growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income
differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress toward the Africanization of
key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower requirements
remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic investment
and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By 1973, the
issues that were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the later 1970s
and early 1980s were becoming clear. How quickly could a country with
limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? How long could the country afford the costs, in
terms of efficiency and incentives, often resulting from the Government's
emphasis on equity? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the
monetized, productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania, which had a detri-
mental effect on agricultural production. Agricultural production also was
affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time (decentrali-
zation and villagization), and foodgrain production was reduced. The
Government was forced into the world market, making large purchases of
foodgrains for cash. Export crop production also fell during this period
and the barter terms of trade dropped by about one-third during these two
years. As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million
in 1973 to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from
TSh 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh 1,061 million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and received some assistance from the IMF
and a program loan from the Bank Group. Under the Government program,
import levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government devel-
opment expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and, at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC, and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The



- 3 -
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted -- declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and produc-
tive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance, and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979, and the flooding and drought in
different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments
deficit. The Government built up major arrears on its import payments for
the first time since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into
deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% and revenues improved
by only 10% from 1977/78 to 1978/79. As a result, Government borrowing
from the banking system increased from TSh 600 million in 1977/78 to more
than TSh 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in
money supply growth, which exceeded 53Z in this period.
8.        During the late-1970s and into the 1980s the economy became
troubled by major problems of falling production in agriculture and
industry and declining factor productivity. In the mid 1970s, average GDP
and per capita income growth rates were similar to those of other
Sub-Saharan African countries.  The average GDP grew by 5.2% per annum
between 1970 and 1978. With population growing at 3.3% annually, per
capita GOP increased at an average rate of about 2% annually. Between 1978
and 1980, growth in aggregate output slowed to 3.3% per annum. In 1981,
falling agricultural and industrial production caused GDP to decline by
1.7%; the rate of decline accelerated to 3.2% in 1982. Since then there
has been some recovery, with the GDP growing between 2 to 3% per annum.
This has however, been hardly adequate to stem the decline in the living
standards of a population which continues to grow by 3.3% annually. Output
in subsistence agriculture and manufacturing, which had experienced high
growth rates of 6% to 7% per annum before 1978, fell by 8% and 16.6% per
annum respectively over the next four years, while output in the services
sector continued to grow steadily. The services sector, which accounted
for only 9% of value added in 1966, currently accounts for more than 25%.
Output in the services sector reflects remuneration rather than output, and
trends in subsistence production are at best guess-estimates with
potentially large margins of error. For these reasons, trends in the rate
of growth of GDP are in some doubt, but the shift away from a monetary to
an informal economy is confirmed by the decline in the share of output
marketed through official channels.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20-40% of domestic investment. However, the
dependence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic
investment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The



- 4 -
major shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government
sector, where they have actually been negative in some years slnce 1975.
10.         Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 83% of total employment, 45% of GDP, and 80Z of exports.
The long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept
pace with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years
as the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s)
has been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by
the limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of
rural development has continuously been highlighted in Government state-
ments, including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not
always been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural
sector or in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction
of the Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to
emphasize the transformation of the institutional structure of rural devel-
opment (through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement
in the sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production
directly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly,
without careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use incentives to influence the pattern of agricul-
tural production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched rather
thinly throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role
assigned to the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for
policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail,
and water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor main-
tenance, and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottle-
necks, and external shocks described above have all contributed to the
severe deterioration in the balance of payments since 1979. By 1985,
export volumes had fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-
1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, while terms of trade have improved by
about 5% in 1984/1985 over the previous two years, they remain nearly 40%
below the coffee boom years 1977-78. Owing to these adverse developments,
the purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1985 was more than one-third
lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. The basic adjust-
ment to the high current account deficits following the second oil shock
was through a cutback in imports. By 1985, import volumes were 23% below
the level in 1978-80 and 18% below che level prevailing in the early
1970s. Aid inflows have been maintained in nominal terms, which implies a
significant reduction in real terms. Currently, food, oil and debt service
account for almost all of export earnings resulting in a severe shortage of
foreign exchange for many categories of imports for which aid resources are
not available. As a result, Tanzania has built up almost US$400 million of
import arrears, and has drawn down all of its reserves.



-5-
12.       Even with the immediate encouraging prospects for coffee and oil
prices; given the limited scope for further external aid and at best a
sluggish export recovery, there is little immediate prospect for a dramatic
improvement in the balance of payments. This continuing balance of pay-
ments constraint is inevitably having a debilitating effect on the economy,
with lower imports reducing production and maintenance of existing assets,
resulting in further falls in exports and available foreign exchange. This
vicious circle will be difficult to break unless there is a substantial
injection of foreign exchange and major improvements in producer incen-
tives, parastatal operations, import allocations, promotion of non-
traditional exports, and overall government planning and budgeting.
13.       Following intensive discussions with the Government in 1980 and
1981, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit 1133-TA) in the
amount of US$50 million was negotiated in March 1981 to support a limited
but sharply defined set of measures intended to assist the Government in
arresting the decline in earnings from the country's major export crops.
During negotiations of this Program Credit, agreement was also reached on a
Memorandum of Understanding on Follow-Up Measures. These included more
restraint and selectivity in the public investment program, more emphasis
in the recurrent budget on the operations and maintenance needs of the
economy, improved foreign exchange budgeting, reexamination of the roles
(particularly purchasing mandates) of the State-owned crop authorities,
introduction of more payment-by-results schemes in industry, and review of
subsidy and cost recovery arrangements in the public sector. A special
agricultural account was established to channel imports into agriculture
with surprisingly little friction among the institutions concerned,
although the Government was not able to meet its own obligation to
contribute US$50 million to the account. The Government also agreed that
an independent Advisory Grcup would be established to assist in preparing a
comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. A large number of its recommendations were adopted
by the Government and incorporated into a Structural Adjustment Progr#m
(SAPs), which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of
important initiatives and proposals. The development budget was substan-
tially cut back in 1982/83 for the second year in a row to release
resources for the operations and maintenance needs of tlhe economy.
Agricultural producer prices were increased in 1982/83 and in 1983/84,
in line with inflation. The Government also announced its intention to
relax restrictions on interregional trade. It also opened up the marketing
of some crops (mainly minor grains such as millet) to anyone interested in
conducting such trade.
15.       In the 1984/85 budget submitted to Parliament on June 14, 1984,
the Government announced a series of new measures. These measures included
an exchange rate adjustment (36X), the second in two years, an increase in
agricultural producer prices of between 46% and 55%, and an initiation of a
program to improve the efficiency and productivity of agricultural
parastatals. These pricing changes were sufficient to allow agricultural



-6-
parastatals as a group to break even while resulting in an increase of 5%
in real incomes of export crop producers. The budget also attempted to
make the NMC, the parastatal responsible for grain marketing, financially
viable through an increase in the consumer price for maize and a decontrol
of the price of maize flour (sembe). These measures together have elimina-
ted the budgetary transfers to the parastatals, which had amounted to
nearly 11% of total recurrent expenditures in 1982/83. The measures also
included politically sensitive actions such as the removal of subsidies on
fertilizer and insecticides and the introduction of fees for secondary
schools to cover a part of the costs.
16.       While the FY86 budget speech continued to emphasize liberaliza-
tion of economic activity and improvement of public sector efficiency, the
actual measures were disappointing. The increase in agriculture producer's
prices, 20% in nominal terms, fell short of the going inflation rate of
above 36% p.a. Also no exchange rate change was announced, creating the
possibility of increased deficits in the parastatal sector. On the
positive side, the budget offered a number of tax breaks to encourage
private business activity. The Government abolished the partnership tax
and export tax on timber and cardamom. The scope of foreign exchange
retention accounts was expanded to include imports of incentive goods, in
addition to recurrent inputs. Finally the scope and the coverage of the
own funded imports scheme was expanded considerably.
17.       The adjustment measures implemented by the Government so far have
been successful in stabilizing the budget deficit. This has paid off in
terms of reduction in the rate of growth of money supply and has resulted
in a deceleration of inflation towards end-1985. Improving the working of
the grain market has been reflected in improved food grain availability in
the country. On the other hand, the measures have not succeeded in
increasing the incentives for export crop production, nor correcting the
growing overvaluation of the shilling and removing the rigidities in the
market for foreign exchange. Furthermore, these measures have not been
sufficient to stimulate an increase in external assistance. The resulting
decline in real import capability has limited the efficacy of many of the
policy reforms and frustrated economic recovery.
18.       Tanzania has not had access to IMF facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Despite several rounds of discussions since 1982, no
agreement has been reached on a reform program. An IMF mission will visit
Tanzania in April 1986 for further discussions.
19.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will con-
tinue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. A halt in the decline in per capita GDP
will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this situation, continued emphasis will be needed on export performance and



concerted effort will be required to improve the level of capacity
utilization and efficiency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done
without jeopardizing vital food production.
20.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion nf the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this assistance include deferred
payment arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying
countries, additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and
multilateral sources, and continued movement toward non-project
assistance.
External Debt
21.       Owing to the very concessional terms oni which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratios have historically been less than 10%. In recent years,
there has been somewhat greater reliance on non-concessional borrowing.
This borrowing, combined with falling exports, has resulted in an increase
in the debt service ratio, which was estimated in 1984 to have been about
20%. The Bank Group is assisting the Government in carrying out a complete
review of its external debt and improving its debt management system. This
effort, which is still under way, has revealed that the reports on publicly
guaranteed debt are incomplete and projected debt service payments may rise
sharply as a number of old loans begin to fall due and coverage of the debt
information improves. Unless Tanzania's poor export performance is re-
versed, the debt service ratio over the next several years may be signifi-
cantly higher than indicated above. Based on existing data, the Bank Group
held 33% of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed in 1984
CIBRD 10%) and obligations to the Bank Group accounted for 63% of total
debt service.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
22.       Tanzania joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation in 1962. Beginning with an IDA credit for education in
1963, 60 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms,
amounting to US$1,134.5 million have so far been approved for Tanzania.
In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 11 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through
their association in the former East African Community. IFC investments in
Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to
the Government. Another IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufac-
turing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978, an
investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was approved in
May 1979 and in June 1984 an investment of US$3.2 million was approved for



- 8 -
the Amboni sisal rehabilitation project. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania as of
March 31, 1986.
23.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i) agri-
culture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv) educa-
tion and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focussed primarily on the rehabilitation aad use of existing productive
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development, and foreign exchange budgets; have
been centered on already experienced or financially viable institutions;
and have been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general
supply difficulties in the economy. They have included technical assist-
ance and training for better maintenance and use of existing capital
facilities and more effective resource allocation in the economy. Lending
during FY82-FY85 along these lines included a second petroleum exploration
project, and a Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project, third and
fourth technical assistance projects (focussed on key manpower gaps is the
agricultural sector), a rehabilitation project for the Dar es Salaam sewer-
age system, a coal engineering project, a hydroelectric power project, and
a port rehabilitation project.
24.       A small number of other projects may be proposed in the agricul-
tural, energy, and transport sectors during the next three years. A Sixth
Highway (Rehabilitation) Project, involving rehabilitation of high priority
roads and assistance to the trucking industry, is being submitted
simultaneously with this one, and agriculture and industrial rehabilitation
projects are under preparation. However, the design and implementation of
viable projects including new investments in the productive sectors of the
economy, especially agriculture and industry, will remain problematical in
the absence of a wide-ranging economic adjustment program. In addition to
financing specific projects, the Bank Group has provided non-project
assistance on three occasions in support of Government efforts to deal with
its balance of payments difficulties. The first such Credit was made in
1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent, an Export Rehabilitation
Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April 1981. A rehabilitation program
credit designed to provide import support to key sectors for economic
recovery is under preparation and will be appraised when the Government
completes a satisfactory economic adjustment program*
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last six years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for such purchases have been adequate. In addition, domestic policies have
weakened the capacity of the agricultural sector to fulfill its traditional
functions effectively. External financing agencies have been increasing
the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs covered by project
budgets; however, it is impossible to cushion projects completely, particu-
larly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the economic crisis. Bank
Group disbursements grew from US$58 million in FY78 to US$115.9 million in
FY82 and then declined to US$53.3 million in FY85. A comparison with other
portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates that Tanzanian disburse-



- 9 -
ments have been about average for the Region, ranging as a proportion of
outstanding commitments from 25.5% in FY78 to 19.9% in FY85 (compared with
24.5% and 19.7% in the same years for the Region as a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects experiencing persistent implementation problems. Intensive super-
vision and, in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Credit
1370-TA), timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some reme-
dial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on imple-
mentation have been most severe, there have been improvements in some
projects. However, considerable work remains to be done in improving
project implementation and disbursements. The Country Implementation
Review scheduled for May 1984 had to be deferred because of changes in the
Government, but discussions were held on further rationalization of the
project portfolio. The next Review is planned for Fall 1986.
27.       Given the state of the Tanzania economy over the last five years,
our strategy during this time has been to follow a two-track approach which
involves the pursuit of structural adjustment issues on the one hand, but
which in the absence of complete agreement with the Government on all
elements leading to a structural adjustment type lending operation, has
focussed on a few high priority projects in specific sectors (para. 23).
Through these projects we can reinforce positive policies and reform, and
give priority to important infrastructure which is in need of rehabili-
tation and is of long-term va'lue to the economy. This proposed power
rehabilitation project is an integral part of this strategy.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
28.        Tanzania's energy resources are substantial and diverse, but
have not been substantially developed so far. In addition to large
forestry resources, the country has coal deposits in the southwestern
region and significant proven gas deDosits on Songo Songo Island, some 200
km south of Dar es Salaam. Another substantial natural gas deposit of as
yet undefined size has been located at Mnazi Bay north of the Mozambique
border. Tanzania's hydro potential is estimated at about 4,500 MW, of
which 247 MW have been eeveloped so far and 80 MW are under construction.
According to a recent joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report 2/,
Tanzania's energy consumption totalled about 9 million metric tons of-oil
equivalent in 1981, of which 92% was consumed as non-commercial energy
(fuelwood and charcoal) and the balance as commercial energy (hydroelectri-
city, coal, and petroleum products). Overall per capita consumption, esti-
mated to be about 470 kilograms of oil equivalent, is comparable to other
developing countries at similar levels of per capita income.
2/   'Tanzania:  Issues and Options in the Energy Sector", Report No.
4649-TA, November 1984.



- 10 -
The Government's Energy Sector Objectives, Strategy and Policy
29.       The Government's five broad objectives in the energy sector are:
(a) to assure minimum needed supplies of energy to the various sectors at
reasonable cost; (b) to charge uniform prices for commercial energy within
each subsector (petroleum, electricity) throughout the country; (c) to
maintain the financial viability of the various supply organizations in the
energy field (i.e. power, petroleum); (d) to promote some of the under-
developed indigenous energy resources for domestic use and export; and (e)
to secure and augment the supply of household fuels such as fuelwood and
charcoal.
30.       In pursuit of these objectives the Government has actively
supported the expansion of electric power supply facilities, taken a
majority equity position in the country's only refinery, and actively
involved itself in the import of petroleum products. Attempts are made
through pricing, import restrictions and curbs on private driving to reduce
petroleum consumption as much as possible. The Government also actively
promotes the search for oil and gas (with Bank Group assistance), generally
in cooperation with foreign oil companies. In pursuit of its social
objectives, unified prices and tariffs are charged for electricity, as well
as for petroleum products, throughout the country regardless of the local
costs of supply; however, this issue is being reviewed in the electric
power sub-sector in a study being carried out under the ongoing Fourth
Power Project (para. 38). The Government recovers significant net revenues
from the petroleum sector. With respect to electricity prices, the
Government is officially committed to maintaining the financial viability
of the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company, Limited (TANESCO), the electric
power supply entity. Although this objective has been in jeopardy, it has
been addressed recently by the Government, and the proposed project
provides additional measures for improvement (paras. 63-68).
31.       For a number of years the Government has actively promoted the
development of its ample hydro resources for export, which current and
future surplus of generating capacity makes more urgent (para. 48). It is
also actively considering development of gas (both for domestic and export
purposes) and coal resources. In the household fuels sector, the Govern-
ment is supporting reforestation and is actively involved in the renewable
energy area. It is supporting increased supplies of liquefied petroleum
gas (LPG) under Cr. 1604-TA.
Energy Sector Organization
32.       Responsibility for energy supplies rests with several different
agencies which have recently begun to more actively coordinate their
activities. As recommended by the Energy Assessment Report, an Energy
Coordinating Committee, on which several ministries and energy agencies are
represe~nted, has been established in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals
(MEM), which is now in charge of coordinating all energy activities of the
Government. MEM is directly responsible for hydrocarbons, electricity,
coal and uranium. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT)
deals with fuelwood through its Forestry Department, while the Prime
Minister's office oversees development of village woodlots and village
electrification. In the commercial energy sector, MEM supervises the
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), the Tanzanian and



- 11 -
Italian Refining Company, Ltd. (TIPER), the Tanzania Electric Supply
Company, Ltd. (TANESCO), and the State Mining Corporation (STAMICO). It is
envisaged that MEM will also supervise the Tanzania Rural Electrification
Corporation (TARECO) as well as a proposed gas corporation (GASCO).
Energy Resources
33.       Fuelvood.  Tanzania has approximately 440,000 km2 of forestry
resources (40Xof its land area). No national forest inventory has been
made, but potential annual fuelwood production is estimated at about 20
million m3, though in major consumption areas annual consumption is esti-
mated to be some two and a half times greater than sustainable supply.
Market prices of charcoal in urban centers are rising rapidly in real
terms, exceeding those of price-controlled, but scarce, kerosene and LPG,
on a energy-equivalent basis. This imbalance has serious ecological conse-
quences and implications for further fuelwood supply. As follow-up to the
Energy Assessment Report, the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment
Sector Program (ESMAP) is discussing with the Government the possibility of
a pilot fuelwood project. The proposed project has a charcoal component
(para. 57).
34.       'oal.  Tanzania's coal resources are estimated at about 2 billion
tons, of which 304 million are proven. Several potential mining projects,
supported by the Governments of China and the Federal Republic of Germany,
and by the IDA-financed Coal Engineering Project (Cr. 1371-TA), could
produce more than 150,000 tons per year (tpy) by 1988 and 300,000-500,000
tpy after 1990. However, it is not clear whether markets large and close
enough to source of supply exist to justify further exploitation.
35.       Natural Gas.  Tanzania's natural gas reserves of 0.72 trillion
cubic feet were proven in 1983 under the IDA-financed Second Songo Songo
Petroleum Exploration Project (Cr. 1199-TA); they are equivalent to
Tanzania"s total domestic commercial energy needs for the next 30 years at
1981 consumption levels. The principal proposed market at present is
fertilizer production for export (90 percent). Potential financing for
such a project, estimated to cost between $400 to $500 million, is being
considered by an international consortium that includes IFC as a possible
cofinancier. Under the IDA-financed Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1604-TA), a domestic gas utilization study and a gas pipeline
feasibility study will be carried out. Potential domestic uses for the gas
include substitution for liquid fuels in industry and transport, and, in
the longer term, power generation.
36.       Petroleum.  Since 1969, TPDC, under production-sharing or joint
venture agreements with international oil companies, has drilled 23
exploration wells, but has so far succeeded only in the discovery of gas.
Hence all petroleum is imported. Refining of imported crude is carried out
TIPER at Dar es Salaam, and petroleum products are marketed by five
Tanzanian subsidiaries of international oil companies. The Government,
through TPDC, holds a 50% share in two of them, while the others are wholly
owned by their parent companies. Although petroleum was only 7.4% of total
energy consumed in 1981, it accounted for 92% of energy consumption other
than biomass fuels. Despite Government rationing since 1978, the relative
share of petroleum (crude and refined products) in total imports has con-
tinued to grow and amounted to 50% of export earnings in 1984.



- 12 -
37.       Hydro.  A total of 4,500 MW of potential power sites with 21,000
GWh of firm annual energy have been identified. Some 253 MW have been
developed, with another 80 MW being built under the IFA financed Fourth
Power (Mtera Hydroelectric) Project (Cr. 1405-TA). Including the Mtera
hydroelectric plant, annual energy availability by 1988 will be 1,450 GWh,
considerably in excess of projected demand, which has been depressed due to
the delayed economic recovery of the country.
Energy Pricing
38.       The retail petroleum product prices in Tanzania are generally
higher than the international prices and reflect costs of imported crude
oil products, domestic refining and distribution costs as well as economic
and social considerations and recognition of the need for conservation.
While the Government has rapidly increased the prices of petroleum products
following the international oil price increase in 1979 (when oil product
prices were revised upwards by more than 50%), it has not adequately
increased power tariffs, although there have been some increases. The
power tariff structure and levels need to be periodically reviewed.
Because uniform power tariffs apply throughout Tanzania, a substantial
cross-subsidy exists between consumers supplied by the interconnected
system and those from isolated diesel plants. A tariff study has been
undertaken under Cr. 1405-TA, the results of which have recently been
received. A major element of its recommendations, an immediate tariff
increase of 67%, has already been implemented as of March 1, 1986. After
reviewing its findings, agreement would be reached between IDA and TANESCO
on implementation of the other agreed recommendations by December 31,
1986. In addition, a semi-annual review and adjustment mechanism would be
irplemented (para. 65).
The Power Sub-Sector
39.       Electricity supply is the responsibility of TANESCO, which is
wholly owned by the Government and operates under the supervision of HEM.
TANESCO supplies some 93% of the power consumed in the country, with the
balance self-generated by parastatals and private organizations. A very
modest rural electrification program exists under the Government-owned
TARECO.
40.       The present power system of TANESCO consists of an interconnected
system in the east, northeast and southwest which provides services to
seven urban centers and has an installed capacity of 335 MW. Twenty-three
isolated service areas supply the urban and industrial centers in the rest
of the country, with a total installed capacity of 66 MW, mostly by diesel
generation, and less than 2 MW of hydro. TANESCO's total installed capa-
city of 401 MW comprises 253 MW hydro and 148 MW diesel and gas turbine
power stations; 80 MW of additional hydro capacity is under construction at
Mtera; 51% of the present installed capacity is at the Kidatu power station
which supplies the main interconnected system.
41.       There are pervasive signs of age, overloading, corrosion and lack
of maintenance (primarily due to lack of spare parts) throughout the
TANESCO interconnected system as well in the isolated diesel generating
stations, and the whole supply system is in urgent need of rehabilitation.
Service reliability has greatly deteriorated, with some 500 major outages



- 13 -
per year reported during 1981-83. These incidents are costly, with major
outages on occasion cutting such vital services as water supply in Dar es
Salaam for several days, and disrupting industrial output. A detailed
study of these conditions carried out under Cr. 1405-TA provides the basis
for this project.
TANESCO's Administrative and Organizational Structure
42.       According to its governing act, TANESCO is intended to operate as
an autonomous corporation. However, its autonomy is limited because major
decisions are subject to Government approval, and it routinely obtains most
of its funds for capital expenditures from the Government. The company's
top management is of high quality and the company has been quite successful
in filling its most senior managerial positions with competent Tanzanian
staff.
43.       Improvements are needed in TANESCO's organizational structure and
juanagement practices; an organization and management study being carried
out under Cr. 1405-TA is to be completed by mid-1986. Agreement has been
reached with TANESCO that, after taking account of IDA's comments, the
agreed-upon recommendations of the study would be implemented by December
31, 1986. There is a serious shortage of qualified) mid-level administra-
tive and technical personnel and no incentive structure to reward outstand-
ing employees. Under the project TANESCO would prepare an incentive
program to be reviewed by the Association and to be operative by June 30,
1987.
44.       The Bank Group has a long-standing involvement in TANESCO's
training and manpower development programs. Dating from the appraisal of
the first power project in 1967, TANESCO's progress in manpower development
has been considerable. TANESCO established a training school and training
program in the mid-sixties and later with the help of the Swedish
Ihternational Development Authority (SIDA) and the Bank Group, developed a
long-term and sound training program with appropriate objectives for man-
power development. TANESCO's Manpower Development and Training Section is
responsible for assessing the training needs for all categories of staff
within TANESCO, and for preparing short- and long-term staff development
plans. As part of the proposed project, the Canadian International
Development Authority (CIDA) would assist the Technician Training Institute
(TTI) at Kidatu to expand its course offering, improve the quality of
instruction and cater more specifically for the needs of TANESCO.
45.       To modernize its commercial and financial side, TANESCO urgently
needs an appropriate management information system. Under the proposed
project, two experts would assist in putting in place an expanded data
processing system. On the technical side, the project would include
advisors/trainers who would work with TAkNESCO supervisors and work crews
and organize on-the-job training.
Patterns of Electricity Consumption
46.       In 1984, TANESCO's system-wide sales of energy were 734 GWh,
after two successive years of decline from the previous peak of 723 GWh
reached in 1981. Eighty-three percent of the total was supplied by the



- 14 -
interconnected system (ICS), the balance by the isolated branches. Genera-
tion reached 776 GWh in 1984, some 164 GWh (21X) higher than sales. Sales
in 1984 to the major tariff classes were split approximately: residential,
25%; commercial, 19%; industrial, 50%; others, 6%.
47.       Load Forecast.  Detailed load forecasts were recently prepared as
part of the Tanzania Power Sector Master Plan, carried out under a least-
cost investment study financed under Cr. 1405-TA. These forecasts reflect
the continued depressed state of the Tanzanian economy and are much lower
than those prepared only a few years ago. Two forecasts were prepared:
the optimistic "upper bound" one is based on the assumption that macro-
economic policies would be put in place to enable economic recovery to get
under way in 1986; the other assumes a two year delay until real recovery
begins. The lower scenario has been used in the economic and financial
analysis on which TANESCO's investment program and this proposed project
are based. Continuous updating of these load forecasts will be the
responsibility of TANESCO's Planning Department and will be closely
monitored under the proposed project. Under neither forecast would peak or
energy demand encroach upon available capacity before 1992. Nevertheless,
proposed promotional programs to encourage substitution of electricity for
other energy sources, as well as power exports (para. 49), could result in
higher sales (a potential additional 275 Glh by 1990) than those projected
now; such programs could reduce the projected energy surplus of the ICS
from 450 GWh to about 175 GWh. The Government and TANESCO have agreed to
prepare by December 31, 1986, for review by the Association, an analysis of
potential markets for surplus energy.
48.       ICS capabilities in the form of hydro, once the Mtera hydroelec-
tric plant is completed in 1988, will be approximately 1,450 GWh of firm
energy and 320 MW of dependable capacity, much higher than the projected
peak demand of 196 MW. The back-up thermal generating capacity will be
85 MW. By far the heaviest load is in the Dar es Salaam area, with
approximately 69% of ICS consumers.
49.       Power Exports.  In the foreseeable future, the only potential
market for power exports is Kenya, where some import of electricity from
Tranzania could be of mutual benefit. Kenya's future demand and supply
options for power will be studied in detail under the Kenya National Power
Development Plan, scheduled for completion by fall 1986. A joint inter-
connection study between the two countries, to be financed by CIDA, has
been agreed upon in principle by all parties. The earliest date that a
transmission line connecting the Tanzanian and Kenyan power systems could
be in place is early 1989, which would be the period of maximum surplus
capacity in the Tanzanian system.
Expansion Program
50.       TANESCO's current investment program consists of completion of
generation works, some additional transmission and distribution facilities,
and substantial rehabilitation works. In addition to the completion of the
Mtera hydroelectric plant, TANESCO is in the process of expanding its
interconnected transmission system to interconnect currently isolated areas



- 15 -
of Tanzania with the main ICS. Also included are a 132 kV transmission
line connecting Tanzania and Uganda, and other minor works of transmission
and distribution. Altogether this program results in capital investments
of about US$410 million between 1985 and 1992. TANESCO's and Tanzania's
restricted financial resource situation, and urgent need for rehabilita-
tion, make it essential that new investments be curtailed as much as
possible. Agreement has been reached between IDA, the Government and
TANESCO, on a reduced five-year investment program based on (a) the
recently completed long-term least-cost power investment program carried
out under the Cr. 1405-TA (which takes into account the static nature of
the economy and related low demand growth for power), and (b) the actual
realizable components of TANESCO's expansion program, taking into account
the financial and economic burdens that this program would impose on both
TANESCO's finances and the country's foreign exchange requirements. As a
part of the revised investment program, it was also agreed that the con-
struction of two transmission lines (totalling US$40 million) would be
postponed until their economic viability is proven on the basis of further
review and until completion of another higher priority transmission line is
assured. The Government has also agreed that it would consult with the
Association prior to undertaking any capital investment not included in
TANESCO's investment program in excess of US$5 million for any individual
project or an aggregate amount of capital investments in any financial year
in excess of US$5 million.
Previous Bank Group Lending and Strategy
51.       The Bank Group has long been involved in Tanzania's energy
sector. The first Bank loan (518-TA, US$5.2 million, 1969) was to TANESCO
for 20 MW of diesel generating plants. The second power loan (715-TA,
US$30 million, 1970) helped finance the first phase of the Kidatu Hydro
Project, increasing capacity by 115 KW and constructing a transmission line
from Kidatu to Dar es Salaam. A third-window loan (1306-T-TA, US$30
million, 1976) financed the second phase of the Kidatu development, adding
100 KW of generating capacity. All three projects have been satisfactorily
completed, broadly within their original construction schedules, though
there were cost overruns in the second and third projects, due mainly to
unexpected bad rock conditions during excavation and higher than forecast
international inflation that affected civil works costs (Project
Performance Audit Reports 2765 and 4622). The Bank Group provided supple-
mentary funds to cover the cost overruns (US$5.0 million for Power II and
US$7.0 million for Power III).
52.       The Fourth Power Project was approved in 1983 (Cr. 1405-TA for
US$35 million).  This US$235 million project comprises the construction of
an 80 MW powerhouse and related civil works at Mtera, the construction of a
control center, and some rehabilitation work, training, and a number of
management, planning and pricing studies. Italy, the Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW), the Kuwait Fund, NORAD and SIDA are cofinanciers. This
project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Bank also financed a petroleum
project in 1980 to assess the gas potential at Songo-Songo (Cr. S-27-TA for
USS30 million) and a second oil-gas exploration project (Cr. 1199-TA for
US$20 million) in 1981. Substantial gas reserves were confirmed at Songo-
Songo (para. 35). The Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project



- 16 -
(Cr. 1604-TA for US$8 million), which will assist the Government to
implement the recommendations of the Energy Assessment Report for a
long-term petroleum sector strategy, is proceeding well.
53.       In 1984 the UNDP/Bank Energy Assessment Report completed a
comprehensive analysis of the energy sector (para. 28). A number of the
report's recommendations form the basis for the proposed project. In
addition, the Government has agreed to a UNDP/Bank Energy Sector Management
Assistance (ESHAP) Program whose specific components will be determined in
1986. IFC is currently taking the lead role for the Bank Group in
examining the technical, economic and financial feasibility of an
export-oriented fertilizer plant that would be the prime user of the
Songo-Songo natural gas reserves (para. 35). The results of the gas
feasibility studies will determine whether a gas infrastructure project
might be proposed.
54.       Past Bank/IDA activities in the energy sector have had a
positive effect on sector developments principally in: influencing the
creation of an important energy sector planning capability in MEM;
assisting the expansion of the power sector from a minor diesel-based
operation to a country-wide, hydro-based public utility system; assisting
in the establishment of an active petroleum sector ezploration program
financed largely by international oil companies and/or outside donors;
substantial training support to the power sector and, more recently, also
to the petroleum sector, in developing needed skills so that these public
enterprises are largely run by Tanzanians; and facilitating future power
sector development through a long-term power development plan, a tariff
study, a management study, and a rehabilitatioa study, which will provide
much needed guidance for future planning, better management and redirection
of development strategies. Considerable coordination and assistance with
other multilateral and bilateral donors has been an important feature of
these efforts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The project was appraised in May and September 1985 following the
recommendations of the UNDP/Bank Energy Assessment Report, and those of
TANESCO's consultants, for a thorough overhaul of TANESCO's power system.
Negotiations were held in Washington from March 17 to 21. The Tanzanian
delegation was led by Mr. F. Kazaura, Principal Secretary, MWnistry of
Energy and Minerals. A Credit and Project Summary is given at the
beginning of this report and a Staff Appraisal Report entitled -Power
Rehabilitation Project" (No. 6026-TA) dated April 10, 1986 is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are given in Annex II-.
Project Objectives and Description
56.       The main objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to
re-establish the operating performance of TANESCO's power system to
reasonable levels of reliability and service; (b) to assist the Government
and TANESCO in developing an economically sound and financially feasible
least-cost development program for the power sector; (c) to assist TANESCO
in improving its financial performance, including tariff levels and
structure; (d) to assist TANESCO in expanding its management and operations



- 17 -
training programs, particularly in the areas of repair and maintenance
activities, bill collection, accounting and financial management; and (e)
to stimulate improved availability and production efficiency of household
energy supplies.
57.       The project would consist of the following main components:
(a) rehabilitation of the Mwanza-Nyakato and Mwanza South diesel
stations, the Ubungo gas turbine and diesel station, and
other isolated diesel power plants;
(b) rehabilitation of all 220 kV, 132 kV and 66 kly transmission
lines, except those completed recently, as well as
rehabilitation of about 3600 km of 33 kV and 11 kV main
distribution lines;
(c) rehabilitation of substations, switchgear and compensation
equipment;
(d) supply and installation of new communications equipment and
repair of existing units;
(e) vehicles for maintenance work and for billing and collection
services; spare parts; and tools and equipment for the
electrical, mechanical, meter testing, telecommunication,
and transport workshops;
(f) technical assistance and training, comprising, for a period
of 42 months: (i) five engineers and seven distribution
and/or diesel plant technicians to be financed by CIDA, to
assist project implementation and provide on-the-job
training to TANESCO counterparts; (ii) a senior financial
advisor and a computer specialist to assist TANESCO in
strengthening its financial and computer systems; and (iii)
five technicians/operators-instructors to be financed by
CIDA, to train technicians and tradesmen at the Technician
Training Institute (TTI), as well as instruction materials
and equipment. An additional 27 man-weeks of training will
be provided under TANESCO's on-going program of training
with overseas power utilities, such as the Irish Utility
Board with which it has had an effective program for several
years. In addition, 24 manmonths of technical assistance
would be provided to the National Urban Water Authority
(NUWA) to assist it in developing a proper billing,
accounting and bill collection system;
(g) Charcoal production: to help alleviate the growing scarcity
of cooking fuels in urban areas, two or three efficient,
commercially-sized pilot charcoal production operations
would be established, based on natural forests to be cleared
for proposed fuelvood plantations, and on the utilization of
waste wood from sawmills. Steel or brick kilns would be
introduced, and the operations would include construction of
access roads, vehicles, tools and operator training;



- 18 -
(h)  Charcoal stoves:  the systematic introduction of more
energy-efficient charcoal stoves (jikos) of proven design
into the Dar es Salaam market, training of stove
manufacturers and/or artisans and the propagation and
demonstration of these stoves in the market place; and
(i) a feasibility study for the manufacture or importation of
electric cookers.
Project Implementation
58.       TANESCO would implement the power rehabilitation component and
MEM, in cooperation with the Forestry Department of MNRT, the charcoal
cooker and charcoal production components. Consulting services have been
engaged for the preparation of the construction contracts. As a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed project, TANESCO would organize a
Rehabilitation Implementation Department under its Operations Directorate
for the duration of the project. TANESCO would employ 12 full-time experts
for construction planning and implementation assistance to TANESCO staff.
TAhESCO would hire outside contractors to undertake the major works on the
transmission lines, the main transmission substations and for about half of
the work on distribution networks, the remaining services to be done by
TANESCO staff. Implementation is projected to be three and a half years
and is due to start in the third quarter of 1986.
59.       The power rehabilitation component is based on a consultant study
financed under Cr. 1405-TA. The consultants have also undertaken detailed
project preparatory work up to and including tender preparation. Most
tender documents are ready and will be issued in accordance with the
cofinancing arrangements. The charcoal cooker and charcoal production
components have been prepared by the Tanzania Industrial Studies and
Consulting Organization with the help of foreign consultants, with
financing arranged from Cr. 1060-TA through the Tanzania Investment Bank.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
60.       The total project cost, including contingencies (estimated at
US$18 million), but excluding interest during construction (estimated at
US$14 million) and taxes and duties, from which TANESCO is exempt,
is estimated at US$88.6 million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$76.2 million. Cost estimates are based on recent quotations from
European manufacturers. Costs include physical contingencies of 10% for
the power components and 15% for the energy components. Price
contingencies have been applied in accordance with international inflation
rates of 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, and 7.0% in 1989.
61.       The borrower would be the Government of Tanzania.  Of the
proceeds of the IDA Credit (US$40 million), US$37.3 million would be onlent
to TANESCO for the power rehabilitation component; the remainder would be
provided to MEM (US$2.4 million) for the charcoal cooker and the charcoal
production components; and to NUWA (US$0.3 million) for technical
assistance. The Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement



- 19 -
with TANESCO providing for on-lending at an interest rate of 9% per annum
with an amortization period of 20 years, including 4 years of grace.
TANESCO would bear the foreign exchange risk.
62.       Cofinancing commitments have been obtained from:  Canada (a grant
of approximately US$10.2 million equivalent) for technical assistance and
training, and transmission line rehabilitation; Finland (a grant of
approximately US$2.3 million equivalent) for rehabilitation of diesel
generators; Norway (a grant of approximately US$8.3 million equivalent) for
transmission and distribution equipment, and workshops; and the European
Investment Bank (EIB) (grant/equity funds of approximately US$6 million
equivalent) for rehabilitation of diesel generators. These commitments and
the proposed IDA credit cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of the
core components of TANESCO's rehabilitation program. Financing for the
remaining components under the project (approximately US$10.6 million) is
likely to be secured in 1986 or early 1987 from one or more of several
additional donors who have expressed interest in cofinancing, but whose
commitments have not yet been firmed up. This should not pose any undue
problems or risk since TANESCO could defer those components for which no
financing materializes without jeopardizing the implementation of the
package of core components for which financing has been obtained (most of
the components are not inextricably linked one to another nor phased
sequentially in implementation). Completion of cofinancing arrangements
with EtB, Finland, and Norway would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit.
TANESCO's Financial Performance
63.       After several years of reasonably satisfactory results, TANESCO's
financial performance deteriorated during the 1982-1984 period. Contribut-
ing to this deterioration were an almost tripling of fuel costs, devalua-
tion of the TSh (which had an adverse effect on TANESCO's debt service
capability), high domestic inflation, and large increases in unaccounted
for electricity consumption (primarily from technical losses in
transmission/distribution). Inadequate revenues due to depressed demand
and inadequate tariff increases, coinciding with the start of an ambitious
investment program, including the Mtera Hydroelectric Project and an exten-
sive transmission system expansion program, exacerbated TANESCO's deterior-
ating position, so that TANESCO ended each of these three years with
negative working capital. Delayed action by the Government on tariff
increases, a lack of sound billing and collection management, and inade-
quate enforcement of payment of overdue accounts (especially those of
Government agencies) forced TANESCO to rely more and more on bank over-
drafts, to default on debt payments to the Government and to delay payments
of some of its bills. As of December 31, 1985, TANESCO's overdue debt
service to the Government, including interest, was about TSh 720 million.
As a consequence of the poor financial situation of TANESCO, neither the
company nor the Government has met the performance requirements under Cr.
1405-TA which provided, inter alia, that cash generated from operations was
to contribute 25% of the costs of investment (40% by 1986), and that
receivables were to be reduced to 60 days of billing. These matters have
been discussed at length with TANESCO and the Government, and a series of
remedial actions have been agreed which are discussed below.



- 20 -
64.       TANESC0 was recently granted a 67% tariff increase and it has
been agreed that TANESCO would return to the rate of return method of
calculation for tariff adjustment it used prior to 1983 (para. 66), which,
coupled with a semi-annual review process (para. 65), should improve
TANESCO's financial performance. Furthermore, steps have recently been
taken which should improve TANESCO's collection procedures and arrears
situation (para. 67). In addition, to help ensure TANESCO's financial
viability in the future the Government has agreed that: (a) TANESCO's
overdue debt service payments to the Government as of December 31, 1985
would be rescheduled over the life of the various loans; (b) the grant
portion of foreign financing for the Mtera project (US$29.5 million) would
continue to be passed on to TANESCO as equity capital; and (c) TANESCO
would not incur any new debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues
and expenditures shows that projected internal cash generations would be at
least 1.4 times the projected debt service requirement on all debt for the
succeeding years, including the debt to be incurred.
65.       Tariff Levels and Rate of Return.  To improve its present finan-
cial situation and meet future operating costs and debt service require-
ments, as well as to make a reasonable contribution to its construction
program from internally generated funds, TANESCO will have to make timely
tariff increases. In addition to the recent tariff increase of67%, average
increases of 24% in each year from 1987 through 1990 will be needed. The
large increase In 1986 was needed to eliminate the overdrafts upon which
TANESCO has been dependent in the past, and to provide cash to enable
TANESCO to meet its debt obligations. Such tariff increases in constant
terms are quite modest, given the heavy investment program and sluggish
rate of load growth. The Government and TANESCO have agreed that (a)
tariffs would be adjusted to allow TANESCO to earn an annual rate of return
on average net revalued plant in operation of at least 10% in 1987 and
thereafter, and (b) the Government and TANESCO would review semi-annually
the adequacy of TAMESCO's tariffs in order to meet the requirements set out
in (a), and take appropriate action within 60 days.
66.       In 1983 under Cr. 1405-TA, TANESCO's financial performance became
linked to a cash contribution toward investment convenant; previously it
had been using a rate of return measure of financial performance, but
agreement had not been reached between the Government and TANESCO on a
method for revaluing its assets, resulting in an impasse and inaction on
tariff increases. As a result, under Cr. 1405-TA TANESCO was required to
revalue its assets by January 1, 1986, and regularly thereafter, based on
an index acceptable to TANESCO and IDA, and had the option of subsequently
returning to a rate of return measure. Such an index has been agreed and
the cash generation covenant has been replaced by a rate of return cove-
nant. It is expected that relating TANESCO's future financial performance
to an annual rate of return on revalued assets, will be less cumbersome for
the Government and TANESCO to monitor because it would be based only on the
actual results for one year.
67.       Arrears.  A major problem for the financial performance of
TANESCO has been the poor payment record by its major customers. As of
December 31, 1985, TANESCO's accounts receivable were estimated at TSh 662
million, equivalent to about 160 days of the last 12 months' sales. Of



- 21 -
these, about TSh 100 million are considered to be non-collectible. The
largest single outstanding account is that of the former Dar es Salaam
Water Supply Organization, now the .sational Urban Water Authority (NUWA),
whose billing and collecticn procedures are unsatisfactory. To improve the
situation the proposed project would provide US$300,000 in technical
assistance to NUWA (para. 57). In the meantime, the G>vernment has reduced
NUWA's arrears to TANESCO from about TSh 212 million to about TSh 103
million and has agreed to provide the Association, as a condition of
effectiveness, with a satisfactory plan of action for the reduction of
NUWA's outstanding electricity accounts. As an additional condition of
effectiveness, TANESCO would reduce all other accounts receivable to lo
more than 90 days of sales. It has also been agreed that TANESCO would
reduce its accounts receivable to no more than 75 days of sales as of
December 31, 1987 and maintain it no higher than that level thereafter.
The Government has agreed to guarantee prompt payment of bills outstanding
for more than 45 days of those customers who cannot be disconnected for
safety or humanitarian reasons. Beginning on June 30, 1986, TANESCO would
prepare a quarterly report summarizing its outstanding consumer accounts,
stating the actions it proposes to take, and send a copy to the Association
for review.
68.       Future Financial Position and Operations.  Projected balance
sheets for the years ending December 31, 1986 through 1991 show that the
current ratio would increase from 0.9 in 1986 to 1.2 in 1991. The debt
equity ratio would vary from 51:49 for 1986 to a peak of 62:38 in 1988, and
then decline to 44:56 in 1991, reflecting the need for less borrowings
beyond 1988 as TANESCO's investment expenditures decrease sharply and debt
repayments overtake drawdowns. These levels are within an acceptable
range. The proposed tariff revisions, coupled with projected sales,
operating costs and asset levels, are expected to produce rates of return
on TANESCO's average revalued net fixed assets of 16% in 1986, and about
10% thereafter. The projected operations of TANESCO indicate that its
financial performance would be satisfactory for the years 1986-1991, based
on currently projected sales, cG-c.s and the proposed tariff levels, with a
working ratio decreasing steadily from 0.40 to 0.23, and debt service
coverage projected to be about 1.8 in 1986 and 1.5 between 1987 and 1988,
declining to 1.3 in 1991. Although the debt service coverage appears to be
low for the later years, TANESCO's cash position at that time is projected
to be good. Net internal cash generation as a percentage of the investment
program expenditures is projected to average 20 percent over the 1986-1990
period.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Most transmission and distribution contractors, equipment,
vehicles, and tools financed by IDA would be procured under ICB in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. Proprietary spare parts for generation and
transmission equipment estimated to amount to about US$2.7 million would be
purchased through negotiated contracts with the respective equipment manu-
facturers. Contracts for works and materials estimated to cost less than
the US$100,000, would be procured by local competitive bidding which is
satisfactory to the Association. It is estimated that the aggregate of
such contracts would be US$2 million. Consultants financed by IDA would be
selected according to standard Bank Group guidelines. Goods and services



- 22 -
financed by the cofinanciers would be procured in accordance with their
respective guidelines. All contracts of US$100,000 or more to be financed
under the proposed credit would be subject to prior review by the
Association. The procurement arrangements are summarized in the following
table:
Cofin-      Total
Other       ancing      Project
ICB      LCB   Methods a/  Agencies b/  Cost
1.  Generation                                    1.8          9.4       11.2
(1.8)                   (1.8)
2.  Transmission                  1.9                          3.5        5.4
(1.9)                                    (1.9)
3.  Transmission Substations                      0.8          3.2        4.0
(0.8)                   (0.8)
4.  Distribution                20.4                          17.2        37.6
(19.8)                                   (19.8)
5.  Teleconmmunications           1.7     0.1                              1.8
(1.7)                                    (1.7)
6.  Workshops                    5.7      3.4                  3.1       12.2
(5.7)                                   (5.7)
7.  TA & Training                0.4      0.4     0.9          7.2        8.9
(0.4)           (0.4)                   (0.8)
8.  Tech. Asst. & Equipment       2.2             0.8                     3.0
for Accounting Dept.      (2.2)            (0.8)                   (3.0)
9.  Engineering                                   1.8                      1.8
(1.8)                   (1.8)
10. Energy Mgt.                           0.1                             0.1
(0.1)                           (0.1)
11. Elec. Cooker Program                          0.1                     0.1
(0.1)                   (0.1)
12. Charcoal Production                   0.9     0.3                     1.2
(0.9)   (0.3)                   (1.2)
13. Charcoal Cooker Program               0.6     0.4                     1.0
(0.6)   (0.4)                   (1.0)
14. NUWA                                          0.3                     0.3
(0.3)                   (0.3)
TOTAL                           32.3      5.5     7.2         43.6       88.6
(31.7)   (1.6)   (6.7)                  (40.0)
Note : Amount financed by IDA in parentheses.
a/ Consulting contracts and proprietary parts and services.
b/ In accordance with cofinancing agencies' procurement rules.
70.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of
foreign and 50X of the local expenditures for equipment and materials, and
100% of total expenditures for consultant services and training to be
financed by IDA. The estimated disbursement schedule given in the Credit
and Project Summary does not conform to the standard disbursement profile



- 23 -
for power projects in Eastern Africa because this Is a rehabilitation
project consisting mainly of replacement equipment and materials, and spare
parts. Much of this material is available from stock or can be produced on
short notice, and most deliveries will be staged over a period of no more
than 30 months. Disbursements against the charcoal stove and kiln
components would be conditional on satisfactory arrangements for their
implementation being put in place. The project is expected to be completed
by June 1990.
71.       Two revolving funds (special accounts) would be established and
maintained in the Bank of Tanzania, one for TANESCO, with an initial
deposit of US$1.0 million, the other for MEM, with an initial deposit of
US$500,000. These accounts would be replenished by the Association on
receipt of withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation.
Statements of Expenditures would be used for contracts up to US$100,000.
Accounting and Audit
72.       Project accounts for the rehabilitation component would be
maintained by TANESCO, which has had serious difficulties in maintaining
its accounts, mainly from lack of experienced accounting staff and
inadequate data processing facilities. The proposed project would finance
the services of a consultant, and the required additional hardware and
software, to assist in the implementation of a fully computerized
accounting system and the training of staff. TANESCO's external auditors,
the Government-owned Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC), are satisfactory to
the Association. TANESCO would continue to employ qualified auditors and
adhere to an agreed detailed timetable with respect to closing its books
and forwarding reports to the Association. The timetable provides that
audited accounts would be sent to the Association within 11 months after
the end of the 1985 fiscal year, within eight months after the end of 1986,
and within six months thereafter. Project accounts for the energy
components would be maintained by MEM's Renewable Energy Division and would
also be audited by TAC.
Environmental Considerations
73.       No adverse environmental effects are envisaged as a result of the
power rehabilitation activities. The charcoal manufacturing component is
designed in part to utilize stocks from natural forests, to be followed
subsequently by systematic replanting of the cleared land, which, on
balance, would improve environmental conditions and minimize erosion
problems. The introduction of improved charcoal cookers and improved
charcoal kilns would reduce the net consumption of wood resources per unit
of useful energy produced, thereby reducing over-cutting, watershed damage
and erosion.
Benefits
74.       The power system rehabilitation components of the proposed
project would restore the existing system to acceptable levels of operating
performance. Not all of the specific project components can be evaluated
in terms of economic rates of return. However, a significant percentage of
the physical components of the project have been covered and by extension



- 24 -
provide a reliable indication of the value of other, similar components not
specifically evaluated. The economic analysis of the various project
components is based on a comparison of the costs of each evaluated
component with its specific, projected benefits; that is, estimates of the
net costs of not having power supplies available when needed or expected,
or of receiving supplies at voltage levels that are either unusable for
certain power consuming purposes, or are damaging to equipment. For
productive activities, these estimates of the net costs of outages are
based on detailed evaluations of the reductions in value added, net of
potential recuperations of initial losses through possible rescheduling of
activities. Domestic consumer costs are mainly based on estimates of the
required use of alternative fuels and/or appliances, e.g. kerosene for
lighting and charcoal, kerosene or LPG for cooking. The values thus
estimated were subjected to a variety of sensitivity tests. For the
economic analysis of the benefits from rehabilitating the distribution
network, specific evaluations were undertaken of the four major load
centers of the TANESCO system. Together, these accounted for about 62% C,f
total national electricity consumption in 1984.
75.    Two types of economic rates of return (ERR) have been calculated.
The first is based on an evaluation of TANESCO's overall investment
program, of which this project forms an integral and unseparable part.
Average tariff revenue was used as the measure of benefits. This ERR is
12%, reflecting the significant increases in current tariff levels needed
to meet the large cash requirements of TANESCO during the next few years of
heavy investments and lagging sales. This rate of return indicates that
tariffs could be adjusted downward in real terms once the current
investments are completed and sales have recovered.
76.       The second calculation of the ERR has been based on the analysis
of the benefits from prevention of outage losses of some of the power
system rehabilitation components, whose total costs account for about 46%
of the total costs of the physical rehabilitation components of the
project. The ERR for the major components and their combined total are as
follows: distribution network rehabilitation 106%; transmission network
rehabilitation 82%; Mwanza diesel station rehabilitation 1,068%; total, all
components, 195%.
Risks
77.       The major risk is financial.  The projected future load growth
and TANESCO revenues take the existing depressed state of the Tanzanian
economy into consideration and also assume that it will continue for the
immediate future. As a result, high tariff increases are required in order
to provide adequate cash generation for TANESCO's overall operations and
investments (even with an investment program that has been curtailed).
Substantial tariff increases have recently been implemented and a
semi-annual tariff review mechanism is provided for under the project. No
major physical risks are anticipated in implementing the proposed project
beyond those that are normally associated with the rehabilitation of
transmission, distribution and generation works and for which provision has
been made by continued use of consultants and advisors. The cbarcoal
cookers and charcoal production components depend on a newly-created
organization for their management. This risk, as well as the problem of



- 25 -
designing a workable arrangement between Government-supported training and
financing activities and initiatives for private sector operation and
marketing, would be reduced by the involvement of Tanzanian institutions
experienced in private enterprise development and from experience from
ongoing similar projects in other African countries.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 10, 1986



- 26 -
TA IL  34                                         ANNEX I
7 3 3 . m   0 - CI   O I 3 A 3 ?P a g e   1   o f   7
M1 PEW. OF      "hUIMp uumzu 
1940Lk  197011           ~LOW EIICm  ArIam          Mt=&#c
Inh        1970       =R&            SOM  OF SARANA A1 rICA S. O1
TOmU                                           943.1       93".1
AGICULIUAL                         331.1       MS.         402.0
36 MQ        C G                        ..          ..        240.0.            233.6                    1063.8
_r mmwm   r 
(EXLOII  OF OUL ZrMWANT)            17.0        49.0        30.0              42.3                    531.3
1OPVATM M1 WZUAL e3tIBIZKc
Forlnatam.Z-uAm (103*x)   10026.0    13513.0    20771.0
3U3*  POIUATI   CEZ Or TAL)          4.6         4.9        13.4              20.1                      32.0
POIUMATIDW VROJSffIOUS
POMLATU  1E ERM 2000 OWL)                                 34.9
SSAT WT NNLA?u (NELL)                                    1235.0
MOJLATIU  1O1NT                                            LO                 .
FOFULTIOK DR5 IS
MR sq. 1.                         10.4        14.3        22.0              33.2                      43.1
m   sq. IN. am. ufLA              26.3        33.9        49.9             112.6                     124.8
IOOA?1O  AM SUJU  (3)
0-14 1Us                         42L           .4        46.7              44.0                      43.
13-44 us                          34.2        52.4        50.3              30.6                      51.3
*35An  A.                                  0   3.0.9                         2.9                       2.7
POMLA?u 062 RMl (3)
SOTIL                              2.4         3.0         3.3               2.                        2.9
U3RBA                              5.3         4.4         M.                6.4                       3.1
cRUDE 3ID  Au  CPU Tons)            48.3        49.a        30.0              47.2                      47.0
CBUO3 DAE $An (93   003)            24.3        20.1        14.0              17.8                      15.0
105s8 UPRODUCTIOU R3                 3.1         3.1         3.2               3.3                       3.2
CPu. A L              9)                  *     *     -   3. 
U     C    NARRs                                           10 6o)  ..  ..  1.07  3.3                    4.4
FM An im inazr
ion  or r00 1D. m  cApiTa
(1969-71-100)                       93.0       104.0       60.0               63.3                      32.9
FMR CUpITA SUPPLY al
CAI.312  (20 orUquipiSm )         66.0        63.0        MO.               67.7                      96.35
1033  (GNO IC3  DAY)              43.0        ".0         31.0              51.9                      33.
0r 63113 MEDAL 411 lULlS        16.0        21.0        20.0 p            10.7                      16.3
C11  (AGEU 1-4)  AR1  RATZ          32.1        23.9        13.0              23.1                      16.0
LD2 Wu5. a  312  cum)               40.4         4.9        30.4              47.6                      32.0
It,3r MuT. SATE (M  10)            132.0       123.0        97.0             119.3                     106.6
AcssIo Ws wz    c )
TOL                                ..         13.0        34.3 if           27.1                      42.4
vow1                               ..         1.0        63.3              43.5                      67.5
IL                                 ..          9.0        23. a             19.3                      33.6
ACUM 20 ERURn2A 018906L
c( oF 9o0MAT10)
U3                                 ..          ..                          726                        2.9
TOALm                                                      4                2343                      28.9
RURAL                              ..          ..         *0.0              20.0                      20.7
Po0A2TOr MI PTSICrA              17900.0    22600.0    17740.0 f.          27901.7                   11791.7
Pot. RK& NWSING Prr5             11o60.0      7230.0      3010.0            3306.4                    2459.8
ror. 36  03114  530
TOTAL                            590.0       730 .0       10.0 A          1273.6                     961.1
0U33*                             30.0        *0.0        80.0 7           423.2                     364.1
9MAL                            1520.0         ..       1200.0            3292.3                    4371.9
ADKISmIOU   M  TAL                  ..          ..         ..                 ..                       27.2
130332 OF 6310
TOSL                               ..          4. 4
O1RB  6I. O                                    3F2 35..3..                                             ..
TOTAL                              ..          ..
03*                                1.6L.,    ..            .                  ..
RUAL                               ..          ..
PRECMNACK Of DWELLXNSUW 62161.
TwAL                               ..          ..
m                                                       ..                 ..
RRL                                ..          ..          .                  ..



-27 -                                           ANNEX I
TAULE 34                                       Page 2 of 7
TAIUWAIZ, U;;TD UrP. 0F- SOCIAL IDICATS ATA WISEr
TAMAZA, NTiEMr5. OF              "FREME CZ GOlI  (6dEIGIED AUUZRES) La
mOST                    (MM  RNCT ESTIMAT) /b
IT             LOW INCOMW   AFrICA      KIDOL.  Icowi
1970w!b RSC             SOUTN OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. 0 SWARA
10UCA2ION
ADJUSTID ENROLLT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  25.0        36.0       9S.0               67.8                     95.7
AIWE                   33.0       64.0       101.0              7/.6                    100.0
FEMAzL                 15.0       29.0        95.0              54.9                     83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  2.0         3.0        3.0               13.5                     17.3
HAL                     2.0        4.0         6.0              17.9                     25.0
FEMALE                  1.0        2.0         2.0               9.1                     14.8
vOCATIOUL (I OF sEo     y)         2L6          ..         3.0               13.2                      5.9
PFPUL-TLACNE U0ID
PRIMARY                          45.0        46.0       43.0               44.9                     41.1
SECONDARY                        20.0        18.0        19.0              27.4                     25.5
PASSEYM CARSgIfOUSAND POP           2.5         2.5        2.6               3.5                     20.8
RADIO RECRIVERS/TROUSAID I0P        2.0        11.1       26.4              55.8                     107.8
TV RZCeC IIeRs/TIOUS&D  PP          ..          0.3        0.4               2.6                      20.8
NISAPIE ("DACUY CENERAL
INTEREST") CI11CIATZION
PER IOUSAND POPULKhION             2.5         4.7       10.4                5.0                     15.4
CDIEOA MM"AL ATENDAJIC/CA?ITA       0.5         ..         0.2               0.S                      0.4
1MY
SOTAL LABOR POU:II (TWOS)         453.0      5935.0     8221.0
T11AL  (PERCENT)                 37.2        36.7        36.0              34.2                     36.2
tUCUlLIUlRE (PERCET)             69.0        86.0       53.0 7f 77.5                               54.5
INDUSTY (PERCET)                   .0         5.0        6.0 7f            9.7                      18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PECET)
TOTAL                            4".4        43.9        39.6              39.3                     36.8
KALE                             59.1        56.3        52.1              50.9                     47.1
FIML5                            34.0        31.8        2.3               25.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC 0VEMNCY RAIb               1.0         1.1        1.2                1.3                     1.3
I -
PERDUT OF PRIVM  INCOM
uzcm By
HIGEIST 5S 0r IEOOLDS             ..         24.7
RI.ST 22 C0 RWOPZOLUS             ..         50.4        ..                 ..
1.01ST  20S0 QO 8110LDS           ..          5.8        ..
ONSZ 40Z or      uWS              .. D^Io 16.0
WM     TA       -
uSmm nSOLUnu Pwm  DNo
EVE  CUSS PM CAPITA)
UUAN                              ..          ..        147.0             165.5                    590.7
RALl ..                                       ..       109.0              95.0                     275.3
ESTIMATED EELATV  rP021r 
LEVM CUSS Pn CAPITA)
URI"                              ..          ..        125.0 Ic          113.1                    545.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        74.0               67.6                    201.1
ESTIrATED POP. USLU ANSOU
POVER  INCOME LEML C()
URBAN                             ..          ..        10.0 Ic           36.6
RURAL                             ..          ..         60.0 A            61.8
Ngr0 AVAILABLE
NOT APPiCABLz
NOTES
/a  The group aeragm  for each Sndicator ae popu1ation-weobted arStFmtlc saea. Coverage of countrleg
among the indicatora Idr an ailability of data and Le not uSitera.
/b  Unl"s otberiae. noted, "Data for 196  rteor to aw year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most tmeat Eatimte" between 191 Snd 1983.
/c  For Mainland Tanania ony; 4 1976; /o 1977; /I 1980; A  1961; A  Regitered. not all prctlSing In
the country; /S 1967;  hJ 1         iJ-
1, 1985



28                                         ANNEX I
Pate 3 of 7
DFJINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
ote: Altho ddato mu drawn Im soutes gnalyjudd ihemouauthoritaiveand flmbk it shouldshobe noted ihat tieymay not beinieratonally
compamble bem cr tl  of tiaeardlmd definition and conepis us by diSsent countrim in colecting the data The data are. nonethek, ueful to
describe ord  ortaiude indicte tes, and chaci celin mor d   rtee btween countrie
lbs refernce roups am (I) die   e counry roup of de subjt eountry and (2)  country group with  mewhat hier avere income than the country
group ofdewsujtcountry(eptfor"Hih IncmueO Eortesgroup whe "Middk Income North Afric nd MMidk Ea   choe  becnaue of stronger
sociocuttura lttes). In the refmnce goup data the averagesc ar populaion whttd arimetic means for each indicator and shown only wben mnajority
oftbecountris in aoup hsu data for that Indicator Sincethecovagorcountri  mong the indicator depends on theavalabilityold tnd is not uniformn
caution must be rciad in mbiting averaes coe indicatr o another. The avengu are only useful in conmparing the valworone indicator at a time among
the country and rerence group.
AREA (thousand sq.knL)                                         Crude btn Rate (per thoud)-Number oflive births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waiers;  per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 datt.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Cru  Deat Rate (per thoeuandj-N umber of deaths in the year
Agriwkara--Estimate of agricultual area used temporarily or    per thousand or mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
prmnanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Cress Repwrodou  Arat-Average number ofdaughters.a woman
le fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 datL                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates uually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USSi-ONP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World   Ftdly P      -A   eeptos  Anad (tthunsw)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                         berofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPlION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,    FmdFy Plasr-zers (percrnt ofnwrkdew,mwen)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro- nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
triciy) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generaly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
rotal ftp.kson. Mid-Year (thousands)--As orfJuly 1:1960 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
VIndex of Foed Prodctim Per Cyita (1969-71 - 100)-Index of per
Urban  opulatione  (percent of totad)-Ratio of urban to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,    include primary commodities (e.g. sugrcane instead of sugr)
P-pulation PAojeetiw                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
POpuiCZion in year 2000.-The projection of population for 2000,  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Starting with infornation on  vegetables. fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980, thae s ramnete  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            hr Cpits SVP  of Cares (p-er Ct forequinets)-Comput-
Stationarypopulation-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate s zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacment level.                                      waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momnnum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Cpia Spiy  f fPotein (graw per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-evel fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of rood is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams or total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment levd from year : onward, 1985 data.                       75 grams or total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populatin DU*Jy                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per rq.kr.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data                her Capita Paweia Supply fran A,einsal and Nba-Protein supply
Per sqJkn. agriculwura land-Computed as above for agricultural  of rood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961 -65.
lnd only, 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Popultion Age S5racse (percew0-Children (0-14 years). work-    CAild (ages 1-4) DPeat Rate (per hhusand--Number of deaths of
ingage(l5-64years),andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentage      children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popult iGroewt Rate (percen)-total--Ann ual growth rates of   from life tables: 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year popuation for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popasiou Growth Rate (percenfr)l-uan-Annual growth rates       Life Expectancy at Bnh (vearfs-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-  29 -                                                ANNEX  I
Pa-ge  4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to day the same throughout its life;  Pupl-teacher Ratio - primary, ad secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and scondary levels divided by numbers of
ItAt M  riltate (pe trheavd)-Number of infants who die         teachers in the corsuponding levels.
beGore reaching one year of age per thouand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 amn  1983 data                                CONSUMPTION
Accs to Sof  Wwr (prcen of papslkm)-r.tal. hean, _d           Plirer Cars rper thusand popselon)-Passenger cars corn-
rsral-Number of people (total urban and rral) with meonable    prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
saes to safe water supply (includes tnated surface wterm  or   ances, hearses and military vehiles.
untreated but uncontamnunated water such as that from pro~tecet  ReAdi Reedier, (per thousand populaton)-All types of receivers
boreholes. springs and antary wells) as pe tagesoftheir respr-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand or population;
bve populatiou. In an urban area a pubbic fountuan or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
blated not more than 200 meters fromn a house nray be consered  rgitrtion Of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years  ay
as being within easonable accen  of that house. In rural areas  notrbe  omprable sinc most countr  abolisecensing.
reasonable scces would imply that the houswife or rermbers of the  not be comparable smce most countries abolished hcensmg
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Receers (per  larandp.pullrios)--TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the famnily's water needs                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unliccnsed TV
Aests torExenr  Dasyowl (pwrm of pqpxen*q)eroad, vrO,          receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
and rur-Number of peopl (total, urban, and rural) served by    in e
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspffr Crculato  (per tho-sandhpolaton)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspapcr,' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Poplatin per Physidav-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-    CuiemEI   Annua Attendane per CPap  per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PopRulion per Nursng Persw-ftbpulation divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Poplro per Hositda Red-toal, whba, ad rwrl--Population  7e                             dr -Econonicaly active perons. in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
available in public and private, general and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds                                                  variousbcouitrisuarecnot compaable; e9cral197nandpe9i3ldata
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanouscountries arc not wmpambk; 190, 1970 and 19H3 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femaue (percenh)-Fenale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaBy custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permnanently staffed  Agrkultr (percent)-Labor force in farming. fomestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as perntage of total labor force, 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         indusry (percentJ-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adnsio, pef Hopral Bed-Total number of admnissions to or       racturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       Force: 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Pwtidparion Rae (percew)-soad, mae, adfeaule-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
AeraW   Si:e of Housedold (pr    per househd)-eroWl  urba,     as percentages of totl. male and female population of all ages
a-drwul--Ahouseholdconsistsofagroupofindividualswhoshare       respectively, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Nmber of Persu per Room-road, ura, and rwal-           Eommic Dependeny Rati--Ratio of population under 1`5. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, resptively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISIrBUTION
Percenae of D iAgs wath Eireacity--rotal, arbn, and rura--     Perenage of Total D ;sosab le me  (both in cash and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with lectricity in living quarters as pcen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4aseed Enolentw Ratios                                        The following estimates arc very approximate measures of poverty
Prznary school - toal. male and femae-4Gross total, male and   levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollmcnt of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esiiated Absolue Poverty Iscome Lee  USS per capitra)-rhan
respective primary school-age populations. Wbile many countries  ad rurnl-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food rmquirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with univeral  Estimated Relative Poery lxcome Level (JSS per coAa)-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural rclative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard primary-school  avcrage per capita personal income of the country. Urban levl is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secaodary school - total, male and femalk-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requirs at kast four years of approved pri-  Ftimated Ppditioi Beiw Absole Povrty hncom  Levd (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational. or teacher trairn;ng  cet)-_arban nd rural- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who arc "absolute poor.,
ence courses are gencrally excluded.
Vocational Enroilmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis auad Data Division
tions include technical, industrial, or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              Junc 1985



ANIIEC I
Fbpiation     : 21.0 mdillion (1984)                                                                       Page 5 of 7
GE Per Capita: USM240 (1983)
TANWAN - BOMDC INDICaS a/
ALxmout                         AJml Rbel Growth Rates CZ)
Indicator                  (maiic. 15$ at
a. esc  prices)                   Actual                                 Projecion
1984        1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983       T984b/   1985F/ 1990
NATI  Am;                                                                      .
Gross damestic pjzxicL -             4,497.1        2.6    0.9    0.6   -1.3    0.9   -0.9        2.2      3.4    4.8
Agdiaulture                        2,418.7        1.0    1.2    2.8    2.3    2.6    0.9        2.9      4.4    5.6
Industry                             462.5      -0.4   -4.1  -10.8  -13.8   -7.2 -16.0        -7.9       2.5    4.0
Seivihes                           1,616.0        5.6    3.2    3.3  -0.4    3.0    2.1        4.3       2.5    4.0
Omxwupciw                            4,675.7       10.1   -7.9    6.8   -6.0    0.7    0.1        8.8      7.1    3.2
Gross investmient                      717.8        9.2   20.2  -13.6    4.3    0.8 -.).5        '9.8     -5.9    5.0
lbcprts of G2DS                        472.9       -6.3   12.2    0.6   18.7  -18.5 -17.7    -10.8         0.6   10.2
Inports of GNDS                        921.8       31.5 -17.4   -0.4   -7.9   -3.9  -19.7         5.3     11.6  -0.8
Gross deetic sadvibs                   266.8      -60.8  139.6  -29.0   34.3    9.9 -14.8    --54.2       -9.6   15.1
PRICES
GDP deflator (1978 - 1OD)                         100.0  110.8  13D.9  154.7  185.4  183 2    180.0    191.7  255.5
2chcwge rate (T.Sh. per USS)                        7.7    8.3    8.2    8.3    9.3   11.1       15.3     17.5   17.5
stone of GDP at Market PFices CZ)          Aerage *rnul increase (Z)
(at Qz_t prices)                       (at CoLat pices)
1978   198D   1982   1984   1985   1990      1976-HD   1980-84   1985-90
Gross dkrnstic woducts/                    100.0  10D.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         2.0        0.5       4.3
Agriaalture                              40.0   41.6   47.6   48.9   48.4   50.5          1.4        2.1       5.2
industry                                 16.6   14.8   11.5    9.4    7.0    6.9         -2.2     -10.8        3.9
services                                 32.4   33.2   31.6   32.7   34.4   37.0          4.5        2.7       3.4
Cmanaption                                 91.5   90.5   89.3   94.6   99.4   84.5          1.9        0.7       3.9
Gross investment                           19.5   22.4   2D.2   14.5   13.8   15.7          4.8       -7.6       2.0
EBports of GEDS                            15.8   12.7    8.1    9.6    9.8   12.0         -2.2      -8.5        9.3
imports of GMPS                            27.5   25.7   17.6   18.6   23.0   12.3         -2.3      -8.1        2.6
G1X>S dostic savingS                        7.8    9.4   10.7    5.5    0.6   15.4          4.4       -0.5       2.6
As x of Gw
M81   FM83   FM16 b/
PUBLIC FINI(
CLwrent revemse                            18.4   18.7   23.4
Trrent ea Witures                          20.0   22.2   25.3
Surplus (+) or deficit  -)                 -1.6  -3.5   -1.9
Capital expenditures                        10.2    6.9    6.5
Foreign finxirng                            5.1    4.0    3.1
1975-82  1982-85  1985-90
OI        IMIDC-
GE grouLh rate(Z)                           2.8       2.1      4.4
GM per capita growth rate (C)              -0.5      -1.2 d/   1.1
IODR                                        8.4      10.3      3.8
Mhghil savings rate                         0.4    -0.2        0.06
ispurt elsticity                           -0.82    -0.7       0.6
a/  Mlnadaly.
EJ  E    8date.
At mist price; cmpvnts are expressd at factor cost.
n/1983-85.



- 31 -
Pioplatim    : 21.0 mLIlion (1984)                                                                  Page 6 of 7
W Per Capita: US$240 (1983)
A    - e        x     . aa
bAct   Rel Growth Rates (Z) at acstwt prices)
Ihdicator       (udiiior USS at
Ca-mt price)                       Actual                                 PDojectim
1984       1978    1979    198D    1981    1982    1983    R  D4/  L95'/  1990
EXENL  TRAZE
Mrchmndiaexports           366.7     -3.5    14.5    -1.8    15.7   -12.7   -14.1   -10.7        0.9    10.6
Major prIMry  Products    265.8     -9.8      2.8    -8.5    33.5   -16.3   -18.7   -14.6       2.6    12.1
OLhers                   100.9      16.4    43.3     9.9   -36.7      9.8     7.6      3.3    -3.9      4.4
Mtrhadise imports          839.3     32.6   -17.0    -2.3    -6.3       1.5  -21.8       1.0    12.9    -1.1
Foocgrains                72.7     -0.6   -48.2   286.3    -7.9    31.9  -28.0    -8.3         0.1   -49.7
P-'tr4ole                227.4      4.1   -18.6    27.1   -15.9    -2.8       3.5      1.0     4.9      2.2
M1chirery aid equipiuz   251.3      52.1    -7.8   -25.5    10.4   -12.5   -35.3    -0.9    10.1        2.1
OLters                   287.9     20.1   -22.4    -7.7   -17.2    12.6   -19.5        6.9    26.6      3.3
PRCES
Export prim Index           93.6     87.6    94.0   100.0    96.3    80.9    86.3    93.6    82.7   103.8
Import price index          91.2     69.4    86.5   100.0   100.9    95.7    92.4    91.2    89.7   114.9
T:erms of trade index      102.6    126.1   108.6   100.0    95.5    84.5    93.4   102.6    92.2    90.4
Caupositii,n of Mrchludiae Th3de (%)            hlerage Amal Increase (Z)
(at current prima)                          (at cnstmt prices)
1970     1975    1980    1985    1990           1970-75  1976-6  1980-85 198590
Exports                      100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              -4.2    -1.8    -7.1    10.1
major prinmy products       59.2     66.3    55.6    61.7    72.9              -1.0    -5.8    -8.2    12.2
Otbers                      40.8     33.7    44.4    38.3    27.1             -10.5     6.7    -Z.3      3.1
imports                      100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               1.9    -1.8    -4.8      2.3
Foodgrains                   7.7     17.7    11.7      6.5     4.5             23.4    -6.2    -5.1    -8.5
Petrolem                     3.1      8.0    22.9    24.3    17.3              -4.0     0.8    -1.3      2.9
Machiery and equipmen       35.2     31.1    34.5    29.1    29.4              -1.1      2.2   -11.0     2.2
Others                      54.0     43.2    30.9    40.1    48.8               0.9    -5.8    -0.7      3.6
Share of Trade with      Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with
Irdustrial Oxntries (Z)   D delopix  Countrie (Z)   CWital Surplus Oil Exports (Z)
1975     1980    1984    1975    1980    1984    1975          1980         1984
DIRECtC OF 1RADE
Ecports                     47.4     57.6    60.7    48.9    35.8    32.2       3.6         8.7          6.3
liports                     58.0     67.3    63.2    34.8    26.5    32.1       6.2        10.7          2.4
a/ Data are for all Tanzania (MaJnLand and Zanzibar).
/ Estimate.



- 32 -
ANNE I
Pbpd1aian       21.0 millim  (1984)                                                                 Pge 7 of 7
Q1 Per CapLta: US$240 (1983)
TNA1   - B UMA        OF P SI1. ErNWL CAPiT  AN) DO
(MU1  in    * Ot arrnt prMS)
1970    1975    19d    1961    1982    1983    19S4M/  19O/  1990
BAIAZ (F PANST
EDqxt of guoda aid seivi&ms             346     518    654      759     530    487     474      456    911
of uiAh: brdwidlae f.o.b.             252     376    505    563    413    379    367          327    699
4uprL of gum dserviu                   375     540   1,38D   1.28   1,173      904     934   1,107   1,485
of %ftdh: wehrduuise c.i.f.           318    770   1,2M    1.162   1.095     819     839    947   1,413
Net tramsfers b/                         6      -10      19      22     24      14       59    127      43
wrTenL anmx. b1arns                     -24    -332    -676   -508    -619   -403   -402    -524   -632
Offkil grnt  ipts                         7     112    109    109        96     90      100    IC      180
M & LT lo      O(ne)                     73     171    227      259    290    192       124    -19      242
Official                               72     171     13)    167    231       159     111    -19      2h2
Pri%ate                                2       -      97      92     5s        3       13      0     -20
oter captal /                           -9       66     337    107    202    122        173     425    250
ae in reserws(-m iAx           ) d/   -47       -17       3      32     31       0       5       10    -40
InLetimeL  reses dl                     99      130      98     107     44      44      39      90    350
Reservw as mAtch  jnFxis d/               3.7     2.0     1.0    1.1    0.5      0.6     0.6      1.0    3.0
EUL   CAPiTL AND EIRr
oiw disaurs6wetct.s                     60      364    297      379    351    394       399
Officialgrants                          6     112    109      109     96      90      loD
QXinaaiLm aloan                       40      191     110    227    187       116     143
aD IC /                             20      88       2D     69      53      14      38
am!l:                                -        -       3      17       2      -       22
Mk                                   9       20     35      84      65      65      59
othrs                                11      83      52      57     67      36       23
:Nh- amcemssjal la"                    14      41      78      43     68    IB8       96
Offical expr       credits              -       1      27      11      29     126      45
I=eD                                   5      40      22      17      10      25      16
Otler nultUnltearl                     -        -      -        4      6        7      11
Priva.-                                9        -     29      11      23      30      24
Baemal Debt
Dekb oastAing and disbursed              323      798    1,335    1.497    1.647    1.82D  2.594
Official                               193      747    1.261    1,411    1.526    1.705   nus.
Privace                                129       51       77      86       121    1u5   n  .
LkUdiabrsed deb.                        408       419      919     906      874      725      593
DLebt aervia
Total sce        tSpaynLa                 26       29       51       47       53       78     134
irterest                               10       11       31       27       33       38       12
ftWayt  as Z eqxuris                       7.5      5.9      7.2      5.2    10.0    16.0   28.3
Average interest. ras un newv lo1s  (yar)   1.6       3.0      2.4      2.7      2.5      2.5   n.a.
Official                                   1.5      3.0      1.9      2.7      1.8      2.0   n.a.
Private                                    7.0     -        9.4      -        7.5      13.6   n.a.
Average msturity of new loam  (ears)        38.8    32.6    28.7    28.3    31.9         36.0   n.
Official                                  39.7    32.6    29.9    28.3    34.7        37.3   na.
Private                                    7.2     -        10.9     -        12.0     11.0   n.a.
As 2 of bLt Oststaidirg
at End of
1963    I98 N
!rity strusure of debt . utatanding
laLurities due within 5 years                                          32.6    37.4
MbLurities due within 10 yearm                                         59.1    61.5
rnterest strimure of debt .uLstanding
Intcrest due within first yew                                           1.2     3.1
ay  Estte.
56/ EDlmdirug official grant reoipts.
C/ Inolue  suppliers' credits, DF credit, t1.rld Bo&k  id M        p pwgm  lo , DM  tuat Find, errors ad
ansiom, axd bLdldp- of arreas.
d/ Withlut  F crdit.



- 33 -
Page 1 of 2
1ME SrAIUS OF TIE BANKM   P 0PE(A[G  IN TANZANIA
A. STIT  CF UK IlANS AND M1&  D]15S
AS OF KRX2 31, 1986
(US$ mlli)
Fiscal.                                                   Aimot less canllation
In./Cr. No.  Year  BDrrWe                P                       Book      7W      mA   2ndisbursed
14 Ion, tio Tbird Window Loans, and 38 Credits                  192.28   41.47    420.02
fully disbursed
Cr.  801-TA   78    Tanzania    Seoii Cassmuu                                       24.50       .3D
In.  1607-TA   78    Tanania      I goro Taxtile                  25.00                        5.14
Cr.   833-TA   78    Tanzaria    Marogom Textil                                     20.00      0.40
Cr.  860-TA   79    T1zania    Tnrism Rehbabitation                                12.50      1.15
Cr.  861-TA   79    Ta1uiia       SiXth E aLiin                                     12.00      5.77
In.  1650-TA   79    Tanzania  l      uMfi Pulp and Paper         30.00                        2.43
Cr.  876-TA   79    Tlzaia        Fifth Higbway                                     20.50      3.13
In.  1750-TA   80    TIB          Tanzania tDwesbnL Bak           25.00                        2.58
Cr.  987-TA   80   Tanzania    Tanzania Rural Dev.   k                               7.00      5.09
Cr. 1007-TA   80   Tanzania       Pyretbnn                                          10.00      5.33
Cr.  1015-TA   80    Tanzania     Grain Storage and  illirg                         43.00     37.03
Cr. 1037-TA   80    Tanzana       Sallbolder lba                                    14.00      9.59
Or.  1056-T   81    Tanzania      Seventh Education                                 25.00     19.35
Cr.  1060-TA   81    Tanznia      Thcbiical Assistance II                           11.0D      4.77
Cc. 1070-TA   81   Tanzaoia       CDCOMxt Pi0lot                                     6.80      3.33
Cr. 1173-TA   82    Tanzania                         I                              27.00      5.22
Cr.  1206-TA   82   Tanzania    Technical Assistanse m                              12.00      3.69
Cr. 1229-TA   82    Tanzania      Sao Hill Forestry-Phase II                        12.00      6.62
Cr.  1312-TA   83   Tanzania      Dax-es-Sa3.m Saeerage and                         22.50     14.01
Sanitation
Cr. 1370-TA   83    Tanzania      K&fiixi Pulp and Paper MIll                       18.00     10.05
Tech. Asst. & Energy Co!.
Cr.  1371-TA   83   Tanzoina      COal ftWgeering                                    6.30      5.49
Cr. 1405-TA   84   Tanzania    Mtera Hydroelectric Pbwer                            35.00     15.61
Cr. 1524-TA   85   Tanzania    Technical Assistance TV                              10.00     10.OB
Cr. 1536--TA   85   Tanzania      BDrt Rehabilitation                               27.00    23.46
Cr.  1604-TA   85    Tanzania    Petroleum Sector Tectxdcal                          8.00      8.46
Total                                               2724.2     1 .4547   804.12   211.08
of which has been repsid                            79.64   4.52      10.65
Total rxw outstanditg                              192.64   36.95    793.47
Amoumt sold                              6.29
of wAich bas been repaid              6.29
M)tal. nw beld by ]Bk and ID  2/                   192.64  36.95    793.47
Total urinisbtwsed                                  10.15    -       200.93    211.08
I/  In addition, Tlarnzia bas been the benficiary of 11 loans totalling IE$244.8 ndLlici whidch cere
excendd for the deyelopient of the cxmxn services ard development benk operated regionaly by
Tananqia, Kenya and tUgida tbroq&h tbeur association in the former East Africa Chn zdty.
2t Net of ewrmhage adjustsmts.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31. 1986
Fiscal                                                 Amount in US$ Million
Year          Obligor          Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar       Food Processing          3.96   0.70    4.66
1964     Company
1978     Highland Soap and    Soap Manufacture          1.37   0.37    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products        Household Utensils       1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
1985     Amboni Limited        General Manufacturing   3.40      -     3.40
Total gross commitments                 10.06   1.25   11.31
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   4.43   0.70    5.13
Total commitments now held by IFC        5.63   0.55    '.18
m        -     .m
Total undisbursed                       1.10     -      :.10



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SREET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:            I year
(b) Project Prepared by:                     Government and Consultants
(c) Project first identified:                 1983
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:          May 13, 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:       March  1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:            July 1986
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
NONE.
III. Special Conditions
1.  The following would be special conditions of effectiveness:
(a) a Rehabilitation Implementation Department would be
established within TANESCO (para. 58);
(b) cofinancing arrangements with EIB, Norway, and Finland would
be completed (para. 62); and
se) the Government would provide a satisfactory plan of action for
reducing NUIWA's outstanding accounts for TANESCO; and TANESCO
would reduce all other accounts receivable to no more than 90
days of sales (para. 67).
2. Satisfactory implementation of the charcoal stove and kiln
components would be a condition of disbursement of these
components (para. 70).
3. Other Conditions:
(a) By December 31, 1986, TANESCO would implement the recommenda-
tions of the tariff and organization and management studies
being carried out under Credit 1405-TA (paras. 38 and 43);
(b) by June 30, 1987 TANESCO would introduce a staff incentive
program (para. 43);
(c) by December 31, 1986, the Government and TANESCO would prepare



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
for IDA review an analysis of potential markets for surplus
energy (para. 47);
(d) the Government would consult with IDA prior to undertaking any
capital investment not included in TANESCO's investment
program in excess of US$5 million for any individual project
or in aggregate for any financial year (para. 50);
(e) TANESCO would not incur any new debt unless a reasonable fore-
cast of its revenues and expenditures shows that projected
internal cash generations would be 1.4 times the projected
debt service requirement (para. 64);
(f) tariffs would be adjusted to allow TANESCO to earn an annual
rate of return on average net revalued plant In operation of
at least 10 in 1987 and thereafter; tariffs would be reviewed
on a semi-annual basis and any necessary action taken within
60 days (para. 65);
(g) beginning on June 30, 1986, TANESCO would prepare a quarterly
report summarizing its outstanding consumer accounts, stating
the actions it proposes to take, and send a copy to the
Association; and by December 31, 1987, would reduce its
accounts receivable to no more than 75 days of sales (para.
67); and
(h) the Government would guarantee prompt payment of bills out-
standing for more than 45 days for those customers who cannot
be disconnected for safety and/or humanitarian reasons (para.
67).
ti) TANESCO would continue to employ qualified auditors and adhere
to an agreed timetable with respect to closing its books and
forwarding reports to the Association.



I GA. /D '                              E.-A
N Y A - -;/
RWANDA                                              ~KNA
V a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y                                                ----- Y' --N.'i-d- 
N  Dvk_ C                                                                                                                                 "-tI''(1     /, ........  v,
TANZO~AA
POWER SECTOR
RHBLITATION PROJECT
TANZ'ANIOA EWLLj11II SPPLY
PRINCIPAL PaWER FACILfTlES
Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~    /                                                 N                  -     A +                  ____   C. 4,
A ~ ~ ~  
tT W   r  (   %+  >   >   -__ > _>   y   MOZAMBI OUE    v   .   NOVEM7ER 191iE
ZAIRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .                          MZMIU
I       _~~~~~~ZI
LAW



I
I



