Dacm.t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCaAL USE ONLY
Rebpipio 12564
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1687-TA)
NOVEMBER 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12564
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankl autiorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shilling
(at Appraisal Year, 1985)
Tsh 1. 0    =  US$ 0.061
US$ 1.0     =  Tsh 16.4
(At Completion Year, 1992 Annual Average)
Tsh 1 0        U US$ 0 003
US$ 1 0     =  Tsh. 300
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
EAR             Energy Assessment Review
ESMAP           Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
H.E.            Household Energy
IDA             International Development Association
MWEM            Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NLWA            National Urban Water Authority
PIP             Productivity Improvement Program
REDPU           Renewable Energy Development Project Unit
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SCF             Supervising Consulting Firr.
SDR             Special Diawing Rights
TA              Technical Assistance
TANESCO         Tanzania Electric Supply Company
TATEDO          Tanzania Traditional Energy Development Organization
TTI             Technical Training Institute
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
MEASUREMENT
MW              Mega Watts
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July I - June 30
TANESCO: January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-General
Operations Evalustion
November 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE Dl.9CTORS AND THR PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tanzania
Power Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1687-TA)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Tanzania - Power
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1687-TA) prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
No contribution was received from the Borrower nor were comments sought from co-
lenders KfW (Germany) and NORAD (Norway).
The project achieved the physical objective of improving the
electricity service by rehabilitating the generating plants, transmission lines
and distribution network. Also, the household energy component achieved the
objective of encouraging efficient domestic energy resources development through
a successful pilot production of charcoal and stoves which interested small
private entrepreneurs.
The project was revised and downsized by 28% as planned co-financing
from CIDA, EIB and Finland failed to materialize.   IDA, the major lender,
contributed US$ 44.3 million to the US$ 63.4 million actual project cost; KfW,
US$ 8.0 million; NORAD, US$ 8.8 million; and Tanzania Electric Supply Company
(TANESCO), US$ 2.3 million.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Its sustainability is
rated as uncertain since the main project component did not improve the broader
institutional framework which currently does not support cost recovery nor
provide independence and autonomy to TANESCO. Development of power sector human
skills was negligible; the institutional development impact of the project is
rated as partial on account of the success of the improved stoves program.
The PCR contains an informative account of the project
implementaticn. However, an economic rate of return on the project was not
recalculated because TANESCO could not provide the necessary data. The project
will be audited together with the Mtera Hydro Power Project (Credit 1405-TA).
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1687-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface
Summary                                                                                            ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..........I
1.  Project Identity .................................................1
2.  Project Background .................................................1
Sector Issues and Objectives                  ..1.........  .........................
Energy Sector Organization and Issues ..........................................2
3.  Project Objectives and Description                  ..........................................3
Project Objectives .........................................3
Project Components .........................................3
4.  Project Design and Organization .........................................3
5.  Project Implementation .........................................5
Part A: Power System  Components ..........................................5
Part B: Household Energy (H.E.) Components .........................6
6. Project Results ...........................................8
7.  Project Sustainability ..........................................9
8.  Bank Performance ...........................................                                   11
Lessons L4amt ...........................................I 1
9.  Borrower Performance ........ ...........                          ....................... 12
Lessons Learnt:                   .. ........................................ 12
10. Project Relationship ........................................... 12
11. Consulting Services ........................................... 12
12. Project Documentation and Data                          .        .         ........................... 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTETlTS (Cont'd.)
PAGE NO.
PART 11. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                           1 4
PART Im. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Association Credits                      1 5
B.     Table 2.Project Timetables                                                 16
C.     Table 3. Credit Disbursement                                               17
D.    Table 4.Project Costs and Financing                                         18
E.     TableS .Project Results                                                    21
F.     TaLle 6. Status of Covenants                                               22
G.    Table 7 (a) & (b).  Use of the Association Resources                        24
R.    Table 8. Project Implementation                                             26



I
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CRI 1687-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power Rehabilitation Project in Tanzania for
which IDA Credit 1687-TA in the amount of SDR 34.7 miillion was approved on May 6, 1986. The credit
was closed on June 30, 1992, two years later than original'y expected. Disbursements were complete e
July 14, 1992 and the remaining balance of SDR 1 22 million will be canceled when the issue of the
outstanding amount of US$ 185,000 from a Special Account is resolved.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II of the
African Region (Preface, Summary, Part I and [II). On May 25, 1993, the Association sent Parts I and III
to the Beneficiary with a request to prepare Part 1I by June 30, 1993, and their reply is awaited.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Association's final supervision of the project in June,
1992 and is based, inter alia, on information contained in the Issues/Decision Papers, Project Brief,
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, progress reports,
correspondence between the Association and the Borrower/Beneficiary, internal memoranda and
information gathered in Tanzania.



ii
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1687-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives.
1     The five main objectives of the project were to: (i) rehabilitate and improve efficiency in Tanzania's
power system in order to achieve rv -tsonable levels of reliability and service; (ii) assist Government and
TANESCO in developing a sound, least cost development program for the power sector; (iii) assist
TANESCO in improving its financial performance; (iv) assist TANESCO in improving the skills of its
operating personnel, particularly in the areas of maintenance and financial operations; and (v) encourage
efficient domestic energy resource development and management through pilot activities in charcoal and
stove production, and a study on the use of electric cookers.
Implementation Experience
2.    The project was implemented over five years as against the appraisal estimate of four years. The
scope of the project was redefined several times after appraisal because of shortfalls in financing (para.
5.2); the final cost of the reduced project was about US$63.4 million as compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$102.6 million (para. 5.15). The components were grouped into two main parts: Power (estimated
final costs of US$60.8 million); and Household Energy (estimated final costs of US$2.6 million). Each
part was implemented and supervised independently and their design, implementation experience and
impact provide interesting contrasts.
3.    For the power rehabilitation activities, a Supervising Consultant Firm (SCF) was used to prepare
and coordinate all stages of implementation. This arrangement contributed sigrificantly to the success in
meeting the project's objective of rehabilitating and improving efficiency in Tanzania's power services. The
arrangement was less successfi"l, however, in achieving a transfer of operating skills to TANESCO's staff
because of: (i) insufficient trained counterpart staff, (ii) poor personnel management practices including
lack of incentives and uncoordinated transfers; and (iii) inadequate attention to this issue in design and
implementa-ion. Only minor provisions had been made for staff training and even these were dropped
because of shortfid1s in donor co-financing. Improvements were also not achieved in financial operations,
despite several efforts, TANESCO did not succeed in recruiting and retaining Technical Assistance (TA) in
financial management and computer systems. Partial success was achieved in improving the financial
performance of TANESCO through tariff increases. The overall impact of the project on institutional
capacity in TANESCO was limited, and it is doubtful therefore that the ultimate objective of "reasonable
levels of reliability and service" would be sustainable on the basis of the project activities alone. (paras. 6.1
to 6.3).
4.    Project objectives were filly achieved in the Household Energy (H.E.) components and the
foundations were laid for signiScant improvements in efficiency in household energy use and supply
Institutional capacity was strengthened in both the public and private svctors. Study tours at the beginning



iii
of the project played a significant role in influencing decision-makers and re-orienting the focus of the
components. In the stove component, following visits to Kenya and Malawi, focus was shifted from an
intensive TA managed approach to one of lower TA input and greater involvement of artisans and private
manufacturers  An energy-efficient, metal-clad ceramic charcoal stove was successfully developed,
produced and marketed.  About 85 micro-enterprises and 7 centralized production facilities were
established and more than 60,000 stoves have been sold through the regular retail services. The pilot
demonstrated the economic viability of the improved stove industrv, user acceptability and high user
demand. A program was prepared and institutional arrangements made for countrv wide expansion of
production of stoves for households as well as a larger model for institutions (para. 6 4)
5.    Design of the charcoal production component was also improved during implementation, only steel
and brick kilns had been originally envisaged. Following a visit to Senegal and in recognition of local
constraints, the program was expanded to include the Casamance kiln from Senegal, an improved earth-
bound kiln.. Training in the Casamance kiln technology was provided to small-scale charcoal-makers,
trainers from a Non-Governmental organization (NGO) and government staff Under a second approach,
technical services were provided to a few private companies to set up commercial charcoal production
centres based on a more capital intensive locally adapted brick kiln. A total of 7 centres were established
with 17 brick kilns. The latter approach has successfully demonstrated the viability of semi -industrial
production of charcoal using non-conventional sources of feedstock (saw-miliing by-products).
6.    Benefits. The project contributed to both macro and sectoral growth. The improvements in
physical capacity in the power sector had an immediate impact on the reliability of power supply and
contributed to meeting the increased demand for power as a result of the recent recovery of the economy.
Actual data is not available on the contributions of the project to TANESCOs overall performance (shown
in PART III Table 6), and it is therefore difficult to calculate a rate of return on the investments which are
only part of a larger program for the power sector which is still ongoing (para. 6.6).
7.    The H.E. part of the project appears poised to make a beneficial impact on the environment and
growth. The improved stoves and kilns are being promoted on a nation wide basis and the likelihood
seems high of a major impact on efficiency in the use of forest resources and a reduction in degradation.
The improved techniques and training promoted under the project have laid the foundations for
countrywide improvement in the level of technology and further growth in the woodfuel sector (para. 6.7).
Sustainability
8.    Sustainability of the project achievements in rehabilitation in the power sector depends on further
improvements in the broader institutional framework (relating to pricing, structure and regulation policies
in the power sector, au.onomy in parastatal management, etc.) and human capital development in
TANESCO. Some of the necessary actions are being pursued under ongoing Adjustment and Civil Service
Reform programs, Cr. 2330-TA, the Power VI project (approved in May i993) and ESMAPI assistance.
The impact of these efforts could perhaps be enhanced by the experiences from this project as well as from
elsewhere.
I Energy Sector Management Assistance Program



iv
9     First of all, the study tours and cross country experiences proved extremely valuable in influencing
decision making and success in the H. E. comrnonent (paras 5. 11 and 8 3). It is also noted that ESMWAP:
has been presenting seminars for decision-makers from Eastem European countries on cross countrv
experiences, and regulation, structure and pricing decisions in natural monopolies. There seems to be a
strong case for including these tools -study tours, cross country experiences and seminars- as important
parts of the strategy for influencing decision makers and efficiency in improving the oower sector in
Tanzania.
10    The second area for potential improvement relates to the management and coordination of
institutional development within TANESCO. Under ongoing and proposed activities by the Bank alone
(including ESMAP) there are about twenty discrete TA interventions (some of which involve teams of
people), as well as several training activities. The use of a SCF with long term involvement in TANESCO
proved extremely successful in designing, coordinating and implementing the technical program (which
involved more than twenty suppliers and contractors) and also in some training (paras. 5.4 and 57). The
same approach has been successfully used by the Bank elsewhere in institutional development and could be
applied to TANESCO. A well established management institute experienced in the power sector should be
internationally selected to assist in the formulation and implementation of a comprehensive institutional
development program for TANESCO. The Institute should have linkages with power utilities and
universities with strong programs in power engineering and related fields. The terms of reference for the
Institute should also include close collaboration with and institution building of local and regional
management training institutes which will eventually takeover in continuing support to TANESCO and the
energy sector.
11.   The achievements in the H.E. components are likely to be sustainable since human capacity
development and flexibility were intrinsic factors in design and implementation of the component. An
NGO was created with project support to: (i) organize and support the artisans involved in stove
production who were trained under the project; and (ii) facilitate further expansion of the program. Project
staff were also trained and programs prepared for firther expansion of both the stove and charcoal
programs (paras. 6.4 and 7.2). The NGO is still a fledgling organization however, and continued technical
assistance to the program would be required from ESMAP.
Lessons Learnt:
12.   The project experience provided the following three lessons:
(a) for complex programs involving several independent contractors, (suppliers or TA) a
supervising (or coordinating) Consultant Firm can make a valuable contribution to success;
(b)  study tours, cross-country experiences, workshops and seminars contributed significantly to
adaptations of design, technology transfer and sustainability in the H.E. component;
(c)  intensive support from the Bank and focus on institution building (through ESMAP) also
contributed to success and sustainability in the H.E component; a similar approach appears to
be yielding good results so far under the ongoing ESMAP support to TANESCO on Loss
Reduction and Demand Management.
2At the Joint Vienna anstitute, a new facility set up by international institutions for ttaining of officials and enterprise managers from
fornerly centrally planned econoties. See the "ESMAP Connection' October 1992.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1687-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:      Power Rehabilitation Project
Credit No:         1687-TA
RVP Unit:          Africa
Country:           United Republic of Tanzania
Sector:            Energy
Subsectors:        Power and Household Energy
2.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
Sector Issues and Objectives
2.1   In 1985 when the project was appraised Tanzania's substantial and diverse energy resources were
not substantially developed. In addition to large forestry resources, the country has coal deposits and
significant proven gas deposits. The hydro potential was estimated at about 4,500 MW, of which 253 MW
had been developed so far and 80 MW were under construction. According to a joint UNDP/World Bank
Energy Assessment Report', Tanzania's energy consumption totaled about 9 million metric tons of oil
equivalent in 1981, of which 92% was consumed as non-commercial energy (fuelwood and charcoal) and
the balance as commercial energy (hydroelectricity, coal, and petroleum products). Overall per capita
consumption, estimated at about 470 kilograms of oil equivalent, was comparable to other developing
countries at sirnilar levels of per capita income.
2.2    The Government's five broad objectives in the energy sector were: (a) to assure minimum needed
supplies of energy to the various sectors at reasonable cost; (b) to charge uniform prices for commercial
energy within each subsector (petroleum, electricity) throughout the country; (c) to maintain the financial
viability of the various supply organizations in the energy field (i.e. power, petroleum); (d) to promote
some of the under-developed indigenous energy resources for domestic use and export; and (e) to secure
and augment the supp!y of household fuels such as fuelwood and charcoal.
lTanza: Ises and Options in the Energy Sector", Report No. 4649-TA, November 1984.



2
Energy Sector Organization and Issues
2.3    Responsibility for energy supplies rested with several different agencies which had recently begun
to more actively coordinate their activities. As recommended by the Energy Assessment Report, an
Energy Coordinating Committee, on which several ministries and energy agencies were represented, had
been established in the Ministry of Water Energy and Minerals (MWEM) to coordinate all energy activities
of the Government. MWEM, v_ 1s directly responsible for hydrocarbons, electricity, coal and uranium.
Other agencies dealt with fuelwood, village woodlots and village electrification. In the commercial energy
sector, MWEM supervised the Tanzania Electric Supply Company, 'Ltd. (TANESCO) and other agencies.
2.4    Energy Pricing. The retail petroleum product prices in Tanzania reflected costs as well as
economic and social considerations. While the Government had rapidly increased the prices of petroleum
products following international increases, it had not adequately increased power tariffs and there was
cross-subsidy among consumers. A tariff study had been undertaken under Cr. 1405-TA, and a major
element of its recommendations, an immediate tariff increase of 67% had already been implemented as of
March 1, 1986. A semi-annual review and adjustment mechanism was to be implemented and monitored
under the Rehabilitation project.
2.5    The Power Sub-Sector. Electricity supply was the responsibility of TANESCO, which was
wholly owned by the Government and operated under the supervision of MWEM. TANESCO supplies
some 93% of the power consumed in the country, with the balance self-generated by parastatals and
private organizations. In 1986, the power system of TANESCO consisted of an interconnected system
which provided services to seven urban centers. Twenty-three isolated service areas supplied the urban
and industrial centers in the rest of the country. TANESCO's total installed capacity of 401 MW
comprised 253 MW hydro and 148 MW diesel and gas turbine power stations; 80 MW of additional hydro
capacity was under construction at Mtera; 51% of the present installed capacity was at the Kidatu power
station which supplied the main interconnected system.
2.6    There were pervasive signs of age, overloading, corrosion and lack of maintenance (primarily due
to lack of spare parts) throughout the TANESCO interconnected system as well in the isolated diesel
generating stations, and the whole supply system was in urgent need of rehabilitation. Service reliability
had greatly deteriorated, with some 500 major outages per year reported during 1981-83. These incidents
were costly, with major outages on occasion cutting such vital services as water supply in Dar es Salaam
for several days, and disrupting industrial output. A detailed study of these conditions had been carried out
under Cr. 1405-TA and provided the basis for the Rehabilitation project.
2.7    The President's Report for the project had identified the need for improvements in TANESCO's
organizational structure and management practices. There was a serious shortage of qualified, mid-level
administrative and technical personnel and no incentive structure to reward outstanding employees. An
organization and management study was being carried out under Cr. 1405-TA and the agreedupon
recommendations of the study were expected to be implemented by December 31, 1986. Under the
Rehabilitation project, TANESCO was supposed to prepare an incentive program to be reviewed by the
Association and be operative by June 30, 1987.



3
3.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
3.1    The project had five main objectives which were as follows. (i) to rehabilitate and improve
efficiency in Tanzania's power system in order to achieve reasonable levels of reliability and service; (ii)
assist Government and TANESCO in developing a sound, least cost development program for the power
sector; (iii) assist TANESCO in improving its financial performance, (iv) assist TANESCO in improving
the skills of its operating personnel, particularly in the areas of maintenance and financial operations; and
(v) encourage efficient domestic energy resource development and management through pilot activities in
charcoal and stove production, and a study on the use of electric cookers.
Project Components
3.2    The main project components at appraisal were:
A.    Power System Components
(i) Rehabilitation of power stations with total nameplate rating estimated at about 120 MW; (ii)
Rehabilitation of existing transmission lines, substations and distribution networks; (iii)
Improvement of associated communications facilities and supply of transport, spares and tools;
(iv) Technical Assistance: (a) 12 engineers/technicians for a total of 42 person months for
supervision of the rehabilitation program and training of staff; (b) 180 person months for
engineering services for supervision, technical approvals, drawings and design, inspection and
general assistance; (c) 5 technicians/operator-instructors to train technicians and tradesman at
the Technical Training Institute (TTI) in Kidatu; (d) 2 financial experts for a total of 60 person
months to assist TANESCO in strengthening its Finance Directorate; and (e) 24 person
months to develop a proper billing accounting and collection system for NUWA (a major
debtor of TANESCO); (v) Overseas training of about 27 person months at recognized power
institutes.
B.    Household Energy Components
(i) Charcoal production: Two or three efficient, commercially-sized pilot charcoal production
operations including the construction of access roads or trails where needed, vehicles, tools
and operator training; (ii) Charcoal cookers: Training of cooker (jiko) manufacturers and/or
artisans, initial supply of tools, materials and equipment, and the propagation and
demonstration of these cookers in the market place, mainly Dar es Salaam; (iii) Electric
cookers: A study of the economic and technical implications of the manufacturing or import of
low-cost, 2-burner electric cookers for supply to existing power consumers, especially those in
the low cost hydropower areas.
4.     PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1    The project design was based on in-depth analyses of the energy sector. The Energy Assessment
Report (EAR) provided a thorough analysis of the key issues, sectoral objectives and strategy. Both parts
of the project were consistent with the findings of the EAR which had emphasized the urgency of
rehabilitation of TANESCO's distribution and transmission operations as well as the need to improve
efficiency in the Household Energy sector. Detailed studies had also been carried out under Credit 1405-



4
TA on the requirements and impact of the rehabilitation program and organizational issues in TANESCO
(para. 2.7 and 2.8).
4 2    With the benefit of hindsight, design of the power part of the project appears to have been biased
in favor of investments in physical capital with insufficient attention to human capital development, and the
institutional constraints of a parastatal in the Tanzanian context prevailing at the time. Only token
provisions had been made for training and even these were dropped because of finding shortages. During
implementation several attempts were made to deal with the institutional problems within TANESCO but
apparently without sustainable impact. A Productivity Improvement Program had been introduced under
the project but the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the subsequent Power VI project (approved in May
1993) noted that "after a period of initial success there was a relaxation of productivity".   This
fundamental weakness in design has undermined not only productivity but also the impact of the project in
transferring skC'Is (para. 5.7) and sustainability of the physical improvements (para 6. l)
4.3    From a technical point of view the project was well designed. The technical conceptual basis for
power generation, transmission and distribution are well known and the power components appear to have
been technically well prepared by the consultants. The targets in relation to technical efficiency and
rehabilitation of plant and equipment were clear and the components and activities were consistent with the
targets. This consistency between technical efficiency and components was maintained even after the
several re-designs of components which were made necessary by the recurring financial constraints.
4.4    The household energy components were also based on clear technical concepts which had been
successfully implemented in other African countries. The design of the components allowed sufficient
flexibility during implementation. The institutional arrangements were appropriate for the nature and scope
of the components which were designed with the objective of sustainability. The activities were designed
and implemented by Technical Assistance (TA) but adequate provisions were made for training and
development of local capacity, including private sector participation (paras. 5.10 to 5.13). The issues of
institutional arrangements for post- project sustainability and expansion of activities were also examined by
the TA and recommendations were provided.
4 5    Organizational responsibilities for all project components were clearly understood and accepted
by the relevant parties. Project design did not attempt to force unnecessary coordination between the
Power and Household Energy components for purposes of reporting, auditing and disbursements. They
were each allowed to function independently and were supervised by different divisions of the Bank.
4.6    Major responsibility for implementation of the power rehabilitation components were assigned to a
supervising consulting firm which had also prepared the components (under Credit 1405-TA). The firm
was responsible for all aspects of procurement as well as supervision of the contractors and other
engineering aspects of the rehabilitation program. They were also supposed to transfer technical know-
how to TANESCO's staff, The technical and engineering responsibilities of the Supervising Consulting
Firm (SCF) were clearly defined in the terms of reference and contract and once these had been agreed
upon there were no conflicts during implementation. This assignment of responsibility to the SCF
contributed significantly to the successful implementation of the rehabilitation program. This design
feature, however, was not conducive to sustainability because the arrangements for the transfer of technical
expertise were not clearly defined and the minimum pre-conditions for the transfer of skills to higher level
local staff were not met (para. 5.7).



5.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-Up. Credit Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
encountered by Government in meeting the conditions of effectiveness relating to: (i) a plan of action for
reduction of the outstanding electricity accounts of NUWA, and (ii) reductions in TANESCO's accounts
receivable, except those of NUWA to no more than 90 days of sales. Government finally agreed to assume
and pay off NJWA's debts through financing from the budget. A tariff increase of 25 percent was
approved, TANESCO increased its collection efforts and the project was declared effective on March 13,
1987, almost six months later than expected and two years after it was appraised.
5.2    The project was plagued by financing problems from its inception. Despite considerable efforts by
IDA to secure donor financing it was necessary to redefine the scope of the project several times after
appraisal. The scope was reduced after Board approval and then again during implementation because of
shortfalls in funding. Project start-up had been well planned. A consulting firm had been recruited (para.
4.6), to first prepare appropriate procurement packages and all bidding documents, and then evaluate the
bids and prepare the contracts. The activities proceeded on schedule until they ran into the financing
constraints. The shortfalls in donor financing, the delays in IDA credit effectiveness, and the delays in
other donor financing (for various reasons including overdue payments from Government) meant that bids
had to be revised, canceled or extended.
5.3    The appraisal implementation schedule of three and a half years and the corresponding
disbursement schedule of four years were therefore delayed. The credit closing and project completion
dates were extended twice and the project was finally closed on June 30, 1992, approximately five years
after credit effectiveness (Part III Table 2).
Part A: Power System Components
5.4   Implementation of the power system components was well planned by the consultant firm (para.
4.6). The works and materials procurement were divided into nearly twenty construction and supply
contracts with detailed implementation schedules which took into account interlinkages where necessary.
Draft tender documents were prepared and brought to negotiations but slippages occurred subsequently
because of financial constraints and deviations in the bid documents and contracts from Bank guidelines. A
representative of the consulting firm had been present in Washington at the time of negotiations but it
would appear that he was heavily involved in restructuring the contracts in response to the changes in
financing arrangements and was not able to focus sufficiently on Bank procurement requirements.
5.5    Despite the financing delays and the procurement issues most of the contracts were signed by April
1987, due largely to the efforts of the consulting firm. The scope of the rehabilitation of the power stations
was changed several times in response to the changes in financing. Expected financing from the Kuwait
Fund did not materialize but the shortfall was partially offset by additional finding (US$4.5 million) made
available from Cr. 1405- TA. A reduced scope of work was satisfactorily completed but the planned
rehabilitation of the Mwanza South diesel plant and of the Ubungo gas turbine were not carried out
because of lack of financing.
5.6    The planned rehabilitation of transmission lines, substations and distribution network was
satisfactorily carried out. The communications facilities were also improved as envisaged and transport
facilities, spares and tools were also provided as planned. In its final report the Supervising Firm noted



6
that elaborate procedures had been put in place to prevent loss of equipment and tools with high local
market value.
5.7    The scope of the technical assistance and training components were substantially redefined during
implementation because expected funding from the Canadian International Development Agenc, (CIDA)
did not materialize. A combined contract for engineering services, supervision and training was awarded
to the same firm that had designed the rehabilitation program and was therefore familiar with the nature of
the work and working conditions in country (para. 4 6). This familiarity with local conditions was a major
asset during implementation. The firm placed a Project Manager supported by a materials handling expert
and a senior distribution engineer in TA.NESCO's head office. Engineers were also posted to the field to
supervise the various rehabilitation works.  The firm also provided practical training for three of
TANESCO's staff, one Civil Engineer was seconded to the firm's headquarters in the UK for 1 year and
two electrical engineers were seconded for six months each. The training in the UK included work at
construction sites and appears to have been usefiul. The practical on-the-job training locally was less
successful because there was an insufficient number of trained TANESCO staff to work with the
consultants. Furthermore the staff who were actually assigned were often called away for other duties
including Regional Administration of TANESCO's operations, or were re-assigned away from the program
just when they were beginning to acquire some experience.
5.8    Training in the use of live line maintenance equipment was a small but perhaps the most sustainable
feature of the power part of the project. A contract of about US$1.0 million was awarded for the supply
of equipment and training for live line maintenance. Despite the lack of adequate facilities the instructor
and trainees overcame the problems and considerable progress was made. The original contract was
increased slightly to include bare hand work and additional equipment and tools were ordered. Eight teams
were trained in live line work and it was noted that Tanesco's staff adapted easily to live line work. After
completion of the contract the most competent of Tanesco's live line staff continued to give instruction to
other members of Tanesco's overhead line teams.
5.9    The proposals in the SAR for overseas training of about 27 man-months and strengthening of
capacity at the Technical Training Institute were not carried out because of a lack of funds as a result of
CIDA's withdrawal from the project. CIDA's non-participation also left a gap in financing for TA for
improvements in financial management, billing and accounting. Given the magnitude of the financial
management problems, IDA funding was reallocated to finance a Financial Controller and a Computer
Systems expert. TANESCO, however, despite several attempts, was not successful in recruiting suitable
candidates for a meaningfll rength of time over the life of the project. Provisions for TA support in these
areas as well as for improvement in the computing equipment and facilities were included in the subsequent
Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2330-TA) which became effective on June 12,
1992. Assistance to NUWA (the major debtor of TANESCO) was provided as planned under the project.
About two years after project effectiveness, a data processing specialist was appointed and accounting
workshops and equipment were financed.
Part B: Household Energy (H.E.) Components
5.10  Implementation of the H.E. components were coordinated by the Renewable Energy Development
Project Unit (REDPU) of MWEM. The Unit had been recently established and satisfactory arrangements
within the Unit were a condition of disbursements for the H.E. part of the project. This condition was
satisfactorily met and a supervision mission of August 1987 noted that the Unit was well organized with six



7
professional staff including an Adviser (through German TA). The mission also reported that the staff
were keen but uncertain about IDA procurement procedures and inexperienced in project management.
5.11   The Bank (through ESMAP)2, therefore provided intensive supervision support in the
development of work programs, termis of references and in the selection of consultants. REDPU staff were
also sent for training in project implementation and management. Study tours at the beginning of the
project played a significant role in influencing decision-makers and re-orienting the focus of the
components. It had originally been intended that the stove component would be implemented through an
intensive TA managed approach. This approach was dropped however, after a visit by project staff to
Malawi, where the approach was being followed in another Bank project. Project management decided to
follow the approach they saw in Kenya, of lower TA input and greater involvement of artisans and private
manufacturers and distributors. A Kenyan consultant was recruited to implement the program with
assistance from local consultants and Ministry staff. The charcoal production component was also similarly
redesigned. The SAR had envisaged only steel and brick kilns, after a visit to Senegal it was decided to
include the Casamance kiln, an improved earth-bound kiln. A consultant was recruited from Senegal under
the same arrangements as for the stove component. Another consultant was recruited to promote the brick
kiln.
5.12   The pilot schemes for charcoal and stove production were well planned during implementation
with distinct phases. Detailed work programs and terms of references were prepared. Consultant
responsibilities for technology transfer were clearly defined and the mechanisms (training, workshops,
extension materials etc.) were included in their terms of references.
5.13   A preliminary study on the feasibility of promoting electric cookers was carried out by a local
company and it was decided not to pursue the study any further for several reasons. Firs of all, the
expected surpluses in power generation did not materialize. Secondly, the available information and
preliminary conclusions from the study (albeit a weak one) were that :(i) local manufacture would not be
economically feasible; and (ii) even the imported price was likely to be beyond the means of the targeted
market.
5.14   Disbursements. The estimated and actual disbursement of the credit is shown in Part III, Table 3.
A total of US$44.3 Million (SDR 33.5 million) was disbursed, and the remaining balance of US$1.7 million
(SDR 1.2 million) was canceled. Disbursements were much slower than expected because of the initial
delay in effectiveness (para. 5.1); the restructuring of components because of financial constraints (para.
5.2); the problems in procurement procedures (para. 5.16); and delays in the execution of a few contracts.
Disbursements were completed over a period of five years as compared to the appraisal estimate of four
years.
5.15   Project Costs and Financing. The total project cost were estimated at US$ 88.6 million (of
which US$ 76.2 in foreign exchange) at appraisal; excluding an estimated US$14.0 nmilion for interest
during construction. Following the shortfalls in donor financing, total project costs were revised in April
1990 to US$63.9 million comprising US$ 61.1 million of foreign costs and US$ 2.8 million of local costs.
The final estimated costs at project completion in June 1992 were US$63.4 million. The external financing
of US$61.1 nmllion was provided by IDA (US$ 44.3 million), Norway (US$ 8.8 million) and Germany
(US$ 8.0 million). Details on project costs and financing are in Part III Table 5.
2Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (World Bank/UNDP)



8
5.16   Procurement. Lack of familiarity with Bank procedures was a major obstacle in the initial stages
of implementation of both parts of the project (paras. 5.4 and 5.10). A number of documents and contracts
had to be revised especially for the power components. A major problem arose in the procurement of bi-
metalic conductors. The specifications were incorrectly stated in the bid documents as "corrosion
resistant" rather than "corrosion proof" which is the quality required for conditions in Tanzania. This led
to some delay and additional costs but matters were satisfactorily resolved through procurement from
another supplier.
5.17   Bank procedures were followed during implementation and efforts were made to obtain Bank
approval before embarking on procurement action and to comply with Bank recommendations on
procurement matters.
5.18   Project Risks. At appraisal, the major risk was considered to be financial and remedial measures
were therefore proposed. The major focus in design and implementation was on high increases in tariffs.
After substantial tariff increases had been achieved, attention then turned to loss reduction and financial
management. A study on loss-reduction was carried out by the Bank under ESMAP and several efforts
were made to recruit long term TA in financial management but without success (para. 5.9). The SAR did
not address the risk of sustainability of physical improvements in the context of the institutional constraints
of TANESCO or in the broader context of a parastatal in Tanzania at the time. On the other hand,
institltional risks for the H.E. components were identified at appraisal and satisfactorily dealt with both in
design and during implementation with additional support for institutional constraints which emerged.
6.     PROJECT RESULTS
6.1    The project was successful in meeting its objective of rehabilitating and improving efficiency in
Tanzania's power services. It was less successful, however, in achieving a transfer of operating skills to
TANESCO's staff because of: (i) insufficient trained counterpart staff; (ii) poor personnel management
practices including lack of incentives and uncoordinated transfers; (iii) inadequate attention to this issue in
design and implementation. It is doubtful, therefore that the ultimate objective of "reasonable levels of
reliability and service" (para. 3.1) would be sustainable on the basis of the project activities alone. The SAR
of the subsequent Power VI project (approved in May 1993) cites the two main problem areas of
TANESCO as still being "(i) deterioration of the distr.bution network, due partly to overloading and
substandard work; and (ii) low availability of the diesel stations due mainly to inadequate maintenance."
There is now general recognitiort of the linkages between the institutional constraints and the operating
problems of TANESCO. The Power VI project includes specific measures to address the policy
framework for TANESCO and the energy sector as well as human capital development. These measures
are expected to enhance the sustainability of the physical improvements under the Rehabilitation Project.
6.2    The project did not include specific financing in support of its objective of assisting TANESCO in
developing a least cost development program for the power sector. This objective was already being
pursued under the Mtwera Power Project (Cr. 1405-TA) with financing for a study and follow-up
discussions. The Rehabilitation project only supported the objective through a legal covenant requiring
TANESCO and Government to consult with IDA before embarking on any further investments in the
sector. This covenant was only partially complied with because contracts were entered into for expansion
of systems without consulting IDA. The contribution of the Rehabilitation Project to the least cost
development program was therefore limited .



9
6.3    Partial success was achieved in improving the financial performance of TANESCO through tariff
increases and more recently through some loss reduction but again these would not be sustainable without
further improvements in financial management capacity and the institutional framework.
6.4    Project objectives were fully achieved in the H.E. components and the foundations were laid for
significant improvements in efficiency in household energy use and supply. Institutional capacity was
strengthened in REDPU (para. 5. 1 1). An energy-efficient, metal-clad ceramic charcoal stove, the Jiko
Bora, was successfully developed, produced and marketed. The pilot demonstrated the economic viability
of the improved stove industry, user acceptability and high user demand. Several hundred artisans were
trained and satisfactory arrangements were made for private sector production of the stoves and supply of
raw materials. About 85 micro-enterprise and 7 centralized production facilities were established and more
than 60,000 stoves have been sold through regular retail facilities. A program was prepared and
institutional arrangements made for country wide expansion of production of stoves for households as well
as a larger model for institutions. REDPU staff were trained in order to enable them to train artisans and
demonstrate and promote the program.
6.5   Improved charcoal production methods were also successfully introduced.  Training in the
Casamance kiln technology was provide to small-scale charcoal-makers, trainers from an NGO and
government staff. The more capital intensive brick kiln was introduced to private companies in saw-
milling, plantation forestry and other activities. Technical support was provided to set up 7 commercial
production centres with 17 brick kilns. The component has successfully demonstrated the viability of
semi-industrial production of charcoal using non-conventional sources of feedstock, mainly saw-milling by-
products.
6.6    Benefits. The project contributed to both macro and sectoral growth. The improvements in
physical capacity in the power sector had an immediate impact on the reliability of power supply and
therefore provided positive benefits to consumers. In recent years the Tanzanian economy has experienced
recovery as a result of various adjustment and reform programs, and power demand has grown faster than
expected at appraisal. The rehabilitation under the project contributed to meeting the increased demand
and in turn to the recovery of the economy. Actual data is not available on the contributions of the project
to TANESCO's overall performance (shown in PART Im Table 6), and it is therefore difficult to calculate a
rate of return on the investments which are only part of a larger program for the power sector which is still
ongoing.
6.7    The H.E. part of the. project appears poised to make a beneficial impact on the environment and
growth. The improved stoves and kilns are being promoted on a nation-wide basis and the likelihood
seems high of a major impact on efficiency in the use of forest resources and a reduction in degradation.
The improved techniques and training promoted under the project have laid the foundations for
countrywide improvement in the level of technology and fiurther growth in the woodfuel sector.
7.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7. 1    As discussed in paras. 6.1 to 6.3, the project achievements in rehabilitation in the power sector
would not be sustainable unless supported by further improvements in the broader institutional framework
(relating to pricing, structure and regulation policies in the power sector, autonomy in parastatal
management, etc.) and human capital development in TANESCO. Some of the necessary actions are being
pursued under the ongoing Adjustment and Civil Service Reform programs, the Power Engineering and



10
TA Project (Credit 2330-TA) and the Power VI project (approved in May 1993) and ESMAP assistance.
The impact of these efforts could perhaps be enhanced by the experiences from this project as well as from
elsewhere.
7.2.   First of all, the study tours and cross country experiences proved extremely valuable in influencing
decision making and success in the H. E. component (paras. 5. 11 and 8 3). It is also noted that ESMAP3
has been presenting seminars for decision-makers from Eastern European countries on cross country
experiences, and regulation, structure and pricing decisions in natural monopolies. There seems to be a
strong case for including these tools -study tours, cross country experiences and seminars- as important
parts of the strategy for influencing decision makers and improving efficiency in the power sector in
Tanzania.
7.3.   The second area for potential improvement relates to the management and coordination of
institutional development within TANESCO. Under ongoing and proposed activities by the Bank alone
(including ESMAP) there are about twenty discrete TA interventions (some of which involve teams of
people), as well as several training activities. The use of a SCF with long term involvement in TANESCO
proved extremely successful in designing, coordinating and implementing the technical program (which
involved more than twenty suppliers and contractors) and also in some training (para. 5.4 and 5.7). The
same approach has been successfully used by the Bank elsewhere in institutional development and could be
applied to TANESCO. A well established management institute experienced in the power sector should be
internationally selected to assist in the formulation and implementation of a comprehensive institutional
development program for TANESCO. The Institute should have linkages with power utilities and
universities with strong programs in power engineering and related fields. The terms of reference for the
Institute should also include close collaboration with and institution building of local and regional
management training institutes which will eventually takeover in continuing support to TANESCO and the
energy sector.
7.4    The achievements in the H.E. components are likely to be sustainable since human capacity
development and flexibility were intrinsic factors in design and implementation of the component. Training
was provided for all participants, and weaknesses in capacity identified during implementation were
immediately addressed (para. 5.11). Programs were prepared, including institutional arrangements, for
sustainability and expansion of the stove and charcoal production activities. Following the Kenyan
experience, an NGO, TATEDO4 was created with project support to: (i) organize and support the artisans
involved in stove production who. were trained under the project; and (ii) facilitate further expansion of the
program. TATEDO is still a fledgling organization however, and continued assistance would be required
from ESMAP to support REDPU staff and TATEDO in the planned country-wide expansion of the stove
program.
7.5    Sustainability in the H.E components was reinforced by the flexible approach adopted by the Bank
and Government. As discussed in para. 5.11, design of the kiln component was adjusted in response to
local constraints and experiences from elsewhere. Flexibility was also demonstrated in the responses to the
training needs and in the institutional arrangements which emerged.
3At the Joint Vienna Institute, a new facility set up by international institutions for training of officials and enterprise
managers from formerly centrally planned economies. See the "ESMAP Connection" October 1992.
4Tanzania Traditional Energy Development Organization



8. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1    Bank performance under the project was mixed  Considerable staff effort was expended in
obtaining cofinancing for the rehabilitation program and the Bank played a key role in coordinating the
design and implementation of the overall program. The Bank had a good understanding of the sector
based on its previous operations as well as on the Energy Assessment Review This knowledge combined
with the Bank's technical expertise contributed to the sound technical approach and success in physical
rehabilitation in the power part of the project. Unfortunately the Bank was slow in this project in
recognizing the importance of the overall policy and institutional constraints in determining the long-term
viability of the improvements in physical capital. It is only subsequently under the Power VI project that
these problems are being addressed in a more comprehensive manner.
8.2   In the HE components, supervised by ESMAP, Bank performance was satisfactory; balanced
attention was given to both institutional development and project implementation. Supervision was
intensified in response to needs (para. 5.11) and the flexible approach by the Bank in design and
implementation contributed to sustainability (para. 7.3). A similar approach is being followed under the
ESMAP support to TANESO in a Loss Reduction and Demand Management program which was started
during implementation of the Rehabilitation project and is still ongoing. The results so far in terms of
impact and institution building are encouraging.
Lessons Learnt
8.3    The Bank's approach to the two parts of the project provides interesting contrasts in strategy
and sustainability. In the H.E. part, major attention was focused on institutional arrangements and
human capacity development. Staff were provided with technical training as well as study tours to
successful operations in Africa and Asia. Broad objectives and purpose were clear and implementation
details were allowed to be flexible. The combination of staff training, well qualified TA and Bank
influence led to pragmatic decision making and sustainable arrangements with private sector
participation. For example, promotion of stove production and supporting services were not centralized
in REDPU but tiansferred to an NGO without any legal covenants to that effect under the project. This
decision was not imposed but evolved from a comparison of the experiences in Kenya and Malawi and
the training process. The underlying theme appears to be: (i) build the human capital foundations
(specific to the subsector); (ii) influence the institutional framework (including the key decision
makers); and (iii) the implementation and sustainability details will flow more smoothly and even
spontaneously as demonstrated by the initiatives in changing project design and collaborating with the
private sector in both stove and charcoal production.
8.4   In the power subsector, on the other hand, the Bank has been focusing on building a complex
technical structure on a weak human capital foundation in a highly constrained policy and institutional
framework. The Bank had been involved in the power sector in Tanzania for nearly twenty years and
the Rehabilitation project was its sixth project in the power sector yet TANESCO was still short of
trained staff and minimum conditions were not established for effective transfer of skills by the SCF
(para. 5.7 ).



12
9.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1    Borrower performance was weak in the areas of pricing, institutional and management policies in
the power sector There was no clearly defined policy on energy pricing, with a clear quantification of the
costs and benefits of social objectives and mechanisms for supporting these objectives  TANESCO's
performance was constrained by anomalies in its institutional framework which eroded its autonomy in
establishing efficient management and personnel policies.  These constraints along with the massive
distortions in the economy created bottlenecks and problems which hampered the pace of implementation
of the rehabilitation program, and cons,rained the impact of the training and productivity improvement
measures resulting in unnecessary costs and foregone benefits to the country.
9.2    On the other hand, Borrower performance in the H.E. components was a major factor in their
success.  Positive results and impact were obtained from the institution building efforts.  Project
management displayed pragmatic and innovative decision-making, with a clear appreciation of the
importance of sustainability and the need to collaborate with the private sector. A conscious choice was
made to follow the private sector-oriented Kenyan approach rather than the public sector intensive
approach of Malawi (para. 5.  11 ). Pragmatic and innovative decisions were also called for in the modalities
involved in providing: support to set up TATEDO; financial management services to small enterprises; and
technical training and advice to private saw-mills and other enterprises. However not all the constraints of
a bureaucracy were overcome. Due to delays in processing MWEM was unable to submit detailed plans
for field offices for REDPU before loan closing, even though the proposal had been approved well in
advance by the Bank.
Lessons Learnt:
9.3   Institutional constraints and capacity were major factors limiting the impact and likely
sustainability of the power parts of the project, while in the H.E. parts, focus on institution building
contributed significantly to success in implementation and likely sustainability.
10.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIIP
10.1   The relationship between the Bank and the implementing agencies was good throughout the
project and this contributed to the smooth implementation of the project. There were no major differences
of opinion.
11.   CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1   Consultants' performance under the project was on the whole satisfactory. Further details are
presented in the discussion on implementation. Consultants contributed significantly to the implementation
of both parts of the project and most assignments were satisfactorily carried out. The SCF for the power
part was strong on technical expertise but weak on procurement matters. There were problems in
complying with Bank guidelines and more importantly an error had been made in the specifications for bi-
metallic conditions (para. 5.16).



13
12.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1   The Staff Appraisal Report and supporting documents were well prepared and appropriate to the
project. Progress reports were prepared on a regular basis for the power cc rnponents by the SCF and by
REDPU for the H.E. part. A detailed technical completion report on the physical aspects of the power
rehabilitation program was prepared by the SCF but no information is available on the impact of the
program on the operating efficiency of TANESCO. A detailed completion report on the H. E. components
was prepared by MWEM.



14
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT PROJECT
(CR. 1687-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART n. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BENEFICLARY'S PERSPECTIVE
No contribution was received from the Borrower nor were comments sought
from co-lenders KfW (Germany) and Norway.



15
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMIATION
Table !. Related Bank Loans & Credits
Loan"'Credit Title                 Purpose               Year of      Sttus
Approval
First Power Project           Provision of generating capacity   1969    Completed
Ln.518-TA                    to meet the projected power
demands for 1970-71.
(US$ 5.2 million)
Second Power Project          Provision of financing for the     1910    Completed
Ln.715-TA                     first phase of the Kidatu Hydro
Project.
(US$ 35.0 million)
Third Power Project           Provision of financing for the     1976    Completed
Ln. 1306-T-TA                 second phase of the Kidatu Hydro
Project.
(US$ 37.0 million)
Fourth Power Project (Mtera)   Provision of generating capacity  1983    Completed
Cr. 1405-TA                   to meet local demand through
1990.
(USS 35.0 million)
Power Eng. & Tech.            Strengthen TANESCO                 1992    On going
Assistance Project            management; enhance the speed
Cr.2330-TA                    and quality of information; ensure
that design of the Kihansi
(US$ 10.0 million)            Hydroelectric Scheme is
technically, financially, and
economically optimal.                                 l
Power VI Project              Help meet growing demand for       1993     Not yet
electricity at least cost; help             effective.
(USS 200.0 million)           Government restructure the power
sector; improve energy et. .iency;
provide training and technology
to staff of sector institutions; and,
promote gas-fueled generation by
l_____________________________    private  investors.



16
Table 2. Projeet Time Table
Item              Date Planned          Date Revised           Date Actual
Identification                                                          Apr. 1985
Preparation                                                             Apr. 1985
Appraisal                   Jun. 1985                                   May 1985
Negotiation                Mar. 1986                                    Mlar. 1986
Board Approval             May 1986                                    May 6,1986
Credit Signature                                                       Jun.25.1986
Effectiveness               Sep. 1986                                  Mar. 13,1987
Credit Closing            Dec.3 1.1990           Dec.3 1,1991          Jun.30, 1992
Jun.30, 1992
Completion                Jun.30, 1990           Jun.30, 1991          Jun.30, 1992
Jun.30, 1992



17
Table 3. Credit Disbursement (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate                   Actual                Actual as % of
Annual   Cumulative           Annual  Cumulative         Appraisal Estimate
1987             14.9       14.9                1.0        1.0                     3
1988             14.8       29.7                15.4       16.4                   41
1989              7.4       37.1                11.8       28.2                  I71
1990              2.9       40.0                10.5       38.7                   97
1991               -        -                   4.9       43.6                    109
1992                                            0.7       44.3'                   111
The USS amounts exceed the apprisal estimates because of the appreciation of the SDR; of the onginal credit of SOR 34.7
million. SDR 33.48 million was disbursed and the remaining balance of SDR 1.22 million will be canceled when the issue of the
outstanding amount of USS 185.000 from a Special Account is resolved.



18
Table 4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (USS million)
Item              Appraisal Estimate          Revised a/           Actual b;
Local Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign Total
Power Components
Generation                 0.4   8.5    8.9        0.2   5.9   6.1
Transmission               0.4   3.9     4 3        -    1.3    1.3
Transmission substations   0.3   2.9    3.2        1.4   9.6   11.0
Distribution               5.1  24.8    29.9       0.8   22.4   23.2
Telecommunications         0.1   1.2    1.4        0.1   4.1    4.2
Workshops                   1.7   8.0    9.7        -    9.7    9.7
Training & tech.asst.      0.7   6.4    7.1         -
Tech.asst.& eqpt.           -   2.4    2.4          -    1.5    1.5
Engineering                 -    1.4    1.4         -    3.8    3.8
Sub-total base cost        8.7  59.6   68.3        2.5   58.3   60.8
Contingencies              2.5  15.1    17.6        -     -     -
Power total cost           II 2  74.7    85.9      2 5   58      60 86
Energy Components
Pilot charcoal
manufacturing program     0.6   0.3    0.9        0. 1   0.4    0.5
Charcoal cooker
program                   0.4   0.3    0.7        0.1    1.4    1.5
Feasibility study for
electric cookers           -    0.1    0.1        -      -
Energy management           -    0.1    0.1        0.1    0.5    0.6
Unallocated                      0 0     0.2              -
Subtotal base cost         1.0    1.0    2.0       0.3    2.3    2.6
Contingencies              0.2   0.2    0.4         -    0.2    0.2
Energy total cost          1L2   .L2      2 4      0 3    2 5    28            2.6
Tech. Asst. to NUWA       -     0.3    0.3         -    0.3    0.3
Total Project Costs      12.4  76.2    88.6    2.8   61.1   63.9            63.4
Interest during
construction              14.0    -    14.0
Total financing
requirement               26.4  76.2   102.6
a! Revised as of April 1990.
bJ No break-down figures available; estimates.



19
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Sources                  Planned              Revised a.         A;tual
Local Foreign  Total
IDA
1. Generation Rehab.              1.8                                    4.5
2. Trans. & Dist. Rehab.        18.3                                    26 8
3. Workshops & Comm.              9.0                                    5 7
4. Veh. & Asso. Spare
Pts. Pt. A                    3.0                                    0.1
5. Veh. Equip. Mat. &
Supp.Pts. CI&C2               0.5                                    0.5
6. Cons.Ser. & Training           3.8                                    6.1
7. Oper. Costs                    0.7                                    0.3
8. Unallocated                    2.9
Fund-A & B                                                             0.3
Sub Total                 40.0   40.0            46.3              44.3
Canada                            10.2   10.2             10.2              0
Finland                            2.3    2.3             2.3
European Investment Bank          6.0    6.0
Norway                            8.3    8.3              8.2              8.8
Other Cofinanciers b/             10.6   10.6             7.8              8.0
TANESCO                     11.2    -    11.2             1.5              2.3
Government                  14.0    -    14.0
Total             26.4    76.2   102.6          66.1             63.4
a! Revised as of April 1990.
b/ Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) signed an agreement with TANESCO in June 1987 for
providing DM 10m to the project. KFW's actual financing was equivalent to US$ 8.0 million.



20
C. Finuncial Impact
Indicators         Appraisal                       Actual
Estimate
Average Tariff Increase       24%      25% tl 87); 5% k8;87); 5% (l 88:; 10% 110 88);
(1987-1990)                    _       t5% (l;89). 15% t689) 28%  (7 891.
Current Ratio 1991             1.2                           NiA
Debt Service Coverage 1991     1.3                       0.7  (1988)
Rate of Return 1991           10%                    -1.3%  (1988)
Accounts Receivable 1991    75 (days)                  110 days (1988)
D. Studies
Title                 Purpose              Status              Impact
Kilwa Kivinie - Dar   Provide a comprehensive,    Completed   Completed the final
es Salaam Gas       definitive feasibility study.   in 1989.    component required for the
Pipeline                                                    overall development of the
Songo gas field for fertilizer
production and domestic use.
Tariff Study for the   Assess costs and            n.a.                 n.a.
Inter-Connection    organizational arrangements
Between Tanzania
Mainland &
Zanzibar
Production &        Provide specific guidance   Completed   Strengthened the program to
Dissemination of    for the project on improved   in 3/1990.   diffuse improved charcoal
Improved Charcoal   stove countrywide extension             stoves.
oves for th        program.
Period 1990-1994



21
Table 5. Project Results
A. Direct Benefit
Indicators                       Planned                 Actual
Technical
Installed dependable capacity (M%W)              424                     413
Peak demand (MW)                                 220                     219
Capacity surplus (MW)                            204                      110
Generation required (GWh)                        1089                    1379
System losses (GWh)                               163                    N/A
System losses (%)                                  15                     23
Sales (GWh)                                      926                     1059
Institutional
No. of connections ('000)                         134                     152
Total population ('000000)                        24.0                    23.2
Per capita consumption (KWh)                      38.6                    45.7
Sales/Consumer (KWh)                             1381                    1395
No. of consumers/employee                         119                     124
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                Actual
Estimate
Economic Rate of Return a/                 12%                    n.a.
Economic Rate of Return b/
Distribution Network Rehabilitation    106%                    n.a.
Transmission Network Rehabilitaticn     82%                    n.a.
Mwanza Diesel Station Rehabilitation  1068%                    n.a.
Total All Components             195%                     n.a.
a/ Based on an evaluation of TANESCO's overall investment program.
b/ Based on the analysis of the benefits from prevention of outage losses of the project components.



22
Table 6. Status of Covenants
Covenants                                       Status
Credit Agrgement:
3.04
Borrower shall consult annually with (i) IDA on TANESCO's investment    Partial
program; and (ii) with IDA prior to undertaking capital investments, not  Compliance - IDA
included in TANESCO's investment program, in excess of S 5 million      not always
equivalent for any individual project or an aggregate amount of capital  consulted prior to
investments in excess of S S million equivalent in any financial year.  undertaking
investments.
4.01
Borrower shall furnish a certified copy of the audited accounts, including  Delayed
Special Accounts reconciliation to IDA as soon as possible, but in any case    Compliance
no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.02
Borrower shall review TANESCO's tariffs and take appropriate actions    Partial
within sixty days of receiving TANESCO's recommendations on such        Compliance
tariffs.
4.03(a)
Borrower shall ensure prompt payment to TANESCO of electricity bills,   Partial
outstanding for more than forty-five days, of those departments and agencies   Compliance
of the Borrower that cannot be disconnected for safety or humanitarian
reasons.
4.03(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to IDA a plan of action for reduction of     Delayed
outstanding electricity accounts of NUWA.                               compliance
6.01 (b)
TANESCO will establish a Rehabilitation Department.                     Compliance
6.01(c)
TANESCO will reduce its accounts receivable, except that of NUWA, to be   Partial
no more than 90 days of sales.                                          Compliance
6.01(e) & (fl
Cofinancing arrangements with EIB, Finland and Norway have been         Compliance - EfB
completed.                                                              was no longer a
co-financier.



23
Project Agreement:
3.04
TANESCO shall (i) furnish quarterly report on outstanding consumer      Delayed
accounts; report must state proposed action; and (ii) reduce its ac;ounts  compliance with
receivable to no more than 75 days of sale by 1231:87.                  3.04 (i), non-
compliance with
i______________________________________________________________ _  3 .04 (ii).
4.01(b)
TANESCO shall furnish audited annual report to IDA within six months of    Cormpliance with
end of fiscal year.                                                     delays in the
I _____________________________________________________________________  beginning.
4.02
TANESCO shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the    Non-compliance -
revenues and expenditures of TANESCO shows that the estimated net       As of mid-year
revenues of TANESCO for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be  '89, TANESCO's
incurred shall be at least 1.4 times the debt service requirements on all debt   debt service
of TANESCO.                                                             coverage was
below 1.4.
4.03(a)
TANESCO shall earn an annual return of no less than 10% of the average  Non-compliance -
current net value of its fixed assets in operation.                     It was estimated
that the rate of
return on average
net fixed assets in
operation at year-
end 1988 was
(1.3)%.
4.03(b)(ii)
TANESCO shall review semi-annually the adequacy of its tariff's and make    Compliance in
recommendations to Government.                                          latter half of the
project.



Table 7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in Staff Weeks)_
Stage of      1985      1986       1987       1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993     Total
Project Cycle
Pre-Appraisal    11.5 L .                                                                    _X
A,  ras_           234.              _  _____ __   _   _  __ _   __     _   __   _  ___   . _ _ _         __ _ ____
Appraisal       2.3       42.0 '_ 
Negotiation                7.4
Supervision                2.0       17.6       20.2       18.0      14.9       6.1       2.4
PCR          _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _                               0.6
Total           13.8       51.4      17.6       20.2       18.0      14.9       6.1       2.4       0.6      145.0



25
B. Mfissions
Stage of    Month/    No.of    Specialization    Performance    Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons   Represented a/    Rating Status    Problems
bP 5F
Pre-Appraisal   511985     3      Eco, FA. PEng        n.a.
Appraisal     05/1985      3      Eco, FA. PEng
n.a.
Post-
Appraisal     09/1985      4      Eco, FA,
PEng, TS             n.a.
Supervision    08/1986      1     FA
Supervision    04/1988      1     FA
3         F. 1, M
Supervision    04/1989     4      Eco. FA, Eng,
PEng                  3         F, L, M. I
Supervision    11/1989     2      FA, IS
2         F. L,M,[I
Supervision    04/1990      1     PEng
2         F. L.M. I
Supervision    10/1990      1     FA
2        F, L. M.
Supervision    09/1991      1     PEng
I        I _                      2         M, L, I
a/    Eco = Economist, Eng = Engineer, FA = Financial Analyst. IS = Institutional Specialist,
PEng = Power Engineer, TS = Training Specialist.
b/     I = minor problems, 2 = moderate problems, 3 = major problems.
c/    F = Financial, I = Impact, L = Legal, M = Management.



26
Table 8. Project Implementation
Major Events and Indicators           Planned Target/             Actual
Completion Date
1. Vehicles and Tool                           Jun. 1987               Sep. 1988
2. Generation - diesel stations                Oct. 1987                Mar. 199 t
3. Transmission
- Material                                    Jun. 1988               Aug. 1988
- Transformers                                Oct. 1988               Oct. 1990
- Substation Equipment                        Oct. 1988               Oct. 1990
- Tunga Substation                            Oct. 1988               Aug. 1989
- River Crossing                              Oct. 1988               Sep. 1989
- Live Line Equipment                         Oct. 1988               Mar. 1990
- Kiyunji Substation                          Oct. 1988               Aug. 1990
4. Distribution
- Equipment and Materials
GTA                                         Nov. 1989               Oct. 1990
HSPE                                        Nov. 1989               Jun. 1990
DAE                                         Nov. 1989                Jul. 1990
SAE                                         Nov.1989                May 1990
l     Construction                           Nov. 1989                Aug. 1990
- Meter Testing                              Nov. 1989               May 1989
l     Protection and Test Equipment          Jun. 1989                Oct. 1989
5. Communication System                         Jun. 1988               Jun. 1990
6. Workshops
- Maintenance                                 Jun. 1987               Jun. 1988
- Telecomms.                                 Jun. 1987                Feb. 1989
Total diesel generating capacity                                         22150
rehabilitated (KW)
Lines installed
33 KV lines (kin)                                                      75
11 KV lines (km)                                                     242
LV lines (km)                                                         221
Transformers installed
33/0.4 KV transformers (MVA)                                           12
11/0.4 KV transformers (MVA)                                          265
33/11 KV transformers (MVA)                                            II
Average tariff increase (1987-1990)               24%              See Table 6.c



