CREDITNUMER 1687 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1687 TA
DEVELOPMENT    DIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1986, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA     the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Part of the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania
Electric Supply Company Limited (hereinafter called TANESCO) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to TANESCO the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount approxi-
mately equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) to assist
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions to be set
forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and EIB;
(D) the   Borrower  has   requested  from  the  Kingdom  of
Norway (Norway) a grant in an amount approximately equivalent
to eight million three hundred thousand dollars ($8,300,000)
(the Norwegian Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project;
(E) the Borrower has requested from the Canadian Inter-
national Development Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) a loan in
an amount approximately equivalent to ten million two hundred
thousand dollars ($10,200,000) (hereinafter called the CIDA Loan)
to assist in financing part of the Project;
(F) the Borrower has requested from the Finnish Inter-
national Development Agency (hereinafter called FINNIDA) a grant
in an amount approximately equivalent to two million three
hundred thousand dollars (2,300,000) (hereinafter called the
FINNIDA Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and TANESCO;


﻿-2-
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TANESCO of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TANESCO pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "TANESCO Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)  "MEM Special Account" means the accou . referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(e)  "MEM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and
Minerals;
(f) "TANESCO" means the Tanzania Electric Company Limited,
a company registered under the Laws of the Borrower;
(g)  "NUWA"  means   the  National   Urban  Water  Authority
established under the laws of the Borrower; and
(h) "T SH" means Tanzanian shilling the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-four million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 34,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect -f the reasonable cost of goods .nd
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and C.3
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
(the TANESCO Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the TANESCO Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Parts C.1 and 2 of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account (the
MEM Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the MEM Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be


﻿-4-
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreemer
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1996, and ending April 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. TANESCO is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a)
and (b) of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿-5-
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall: (i) carry out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the
Project through its Ministry of Energy and Minerals; (ii) carry
out Part B of the Project through NUWA; and (iii) cause TANESCO
to carry out Parts A and C.3 of the Project and to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of TANESCO therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable TANESCO to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
for Parts A and C.3 of the Project to TANESCO under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
TANESCO, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association which shall provide, inter alia,
that: (i) the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an
interest rate of nine percent (9%) per annum for a term of
twenty years including a grace period not exceeding four years;
and (ii) TANESCO shall bear the risk resulting from fluctuations
in the value of the currencies relent to it.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insur-
ance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A and C.3 of the Project shall be carried out by
TANESCO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project: (i) consult with the Association and TANESCO annually on
TANESCO's investment program; and (ii) consult with the Associa-
tion prior to undertaking any capital investment, not included in
TANESCO's investment program, in excess of $5 million equivalent
for any individual project or an aggregate amount of capital
investments in excess of $5 million equivalent in any financial
year.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Parts C.1 and 2, establish an organization satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained   records  and   accounts  adequate   to  reflect,   in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, C.1, and C.2 of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the MEM Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this  Section,   and   that  the   report  thereof
contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, in order to enable TANESCO
to meet the requirements of Section 4.03 of the Project Agree-
ment, review TANESCO's tariffs and take appropriate action
thereon within sixty days of receiving TANESCO's recommendations
on such tariffs.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure the prompt
payment to TANESCO of electricity bills, outstanding for more
than forty-five days, of those departments and agencies of the
Borrower that the Borrower specifies cannot be disconnected for
safety or humanitarian reasons.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Association, for the reduction of the
outstanding electricity accounts of NUWA.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) TANESCO shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
TANESCO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Electricity (Tanganyika Electric Supply Company
Limited) License, 1957, shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adverse-
ly the ability of TANESCO to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TANESCO or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) A change shall have been made in TANESCO's Memorandum
of Agreement or Articles of Association which will adversely
affect the operations or financial condition of TANESCO or the
carrying out of the Project.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or TANESCO to with-
draw the proceeds of any grant, loan or
credit made to the Borrower or TANESCO for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit_ shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if:


﻿-9-
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower or TANESCO to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or TANESCO from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations   of  the  Borrower   under  this
Agreement or of TANESCO under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject to paragraph
(f) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TANESCO;
(b) TANESCO has, in accordance with Schedule 2 paragraph 2
of the Project Agreement, established a Rehabilitation Depart-
ment;
(c) TANESCO has reduced its accounts receivable, except
that of NUWA, to be more than 90 days of sales;
(d) the Borrower has furnished to the Association the plan
of action referred to in Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿- 10 -
(e) the Association has been notified that all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of the EIB Loan and the
FINNIDA Grant, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled; and
(f) the Association has been furnished with evidence satis-
factory to the Association showing that the Norwegian Grant has
been made available.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the 2roject Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by TANESCO and is legally binding upon TANESCO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TANESCO and is legally
binding upon the Borrower ard TANESCO in accordance with its
terms,
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
Economic Affairs and Planning
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                      Telex:
TREASURY                          41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Generation                1,540,000         100% of foreign
rehabilitation                             expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(2) Transmission and         15,880,000         100% of foreign
distribution                               expenditures and
rehabilitation                             50% of local
expenditures
(3) Workshops and             7,800,000         100% of foreign
communications                             expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(4) Vehicles and              2,615,000         100% of foreign
associated                                 expenditures and
spare parts                                50% of local
for Part A of                              expenditures
the Project
(5) Vehicles, equip-            415,000         100%
ment, materials
and supplies for
Parts C.1 and C.2
of the Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Consultants'
services and
training:
(a) for Part A of        2,235,000         100% of foreign
the Project                           expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(b) for Part B of          260,000         100%
the Project
(c) for Parts C.1          840,000         100%
and C.2 of
the Project
(7) Operating costs             660,000         100%
for Parts C.1
and C.2 of the
Project
(8) Unallocated               2,455,000
TOTAL              34,700,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule, the    term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (b)
until the Borrower has made satisfactory arrangements for the
implementation of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to improve the reli-
ability of the Borrower's power system. The Project will in addi-
tion provide assistance to TANESCO in personnel training and its
financial performance; and assistance to pilot activities to
assure improved household fuel supplies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power
1.   Power Stations Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of the Mwanza-Nyakato diesel station, Mwanza
South diesel station, Ubungo gas turbine and diesel station; and
other isolated diesel power plants.
2.   Transmission Network Rehabilitation:
(a) Rehabilitation of existing 220 kv, 132 kv and 66 kv
transmission lines with a total length of about 1215 kilometers
except Kidatu-Mbeya and Iringa-Dodoma.
(b) Rehabilitation of transmission substations.
3.   Distribution Network Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of about 3,600 kilometers of 33 kv and 11 kv
main distribution lines and related low voltage lines, through
the  installation   of  protective   devices,  new  distribution
transformers and supply of new hardware.
4.   Communications
Provision and installation of pilot cables, radio and
telephone equipment.
5.   Transport, Spares and Tools:
(a) Provision of about 285 vehicles for generation,
transmission and distribution maintenance, billing and collec-
tion services and student transportation at Kidatu.


﻿- 16 -
(b) Provision of spare parts.
(c) Provision of tools and equipment for the electrical,
mechanical, meter testing, telecommunications and transport
workshops.
(d) Provision of meters and accessories.
6.   Project Supervision and Training:
(a) Supervision   of   rehabilitation  work  and  on-the-job
training of supervisory staff, operators and technicians for
electrical and mechanical maintenance, protection and control,
and line maintenance through the provision of about eleven
engineers/technicians.
(b) Training    and   Technical   Assistance.  Training   of
technicians and tradesmen at the TTI in Kidatu by the provisions
of about five technicians/operator-instructors.
(c) Provision of about 27 man-months of specialized train-
ing at recognized overseas power utilities.
7.   Assistance to TANESCO
Strengthening of TANESCO's Finance Directorate, through the
provicton of: (i) a financial adviser and a computer systems
specialist; and (ii) computer hardware and software.
Part B:   Assistance to NUWA
Development of an improved accounting, billing and collec-
tion system in NUWA through the provision of technical
assistance.
Part C:   Energy:
1.   Charcoal Production Program
Establishment of about three efficient, commercially-sized
pilot charcoal production operations, including the provision of
technical asssistance to the program's management unit in MEM's
Energy Department.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Charcoal Cookers
Training of charcoal cooker manufacturers and artisans;
provision of tools; materials and equipment; and the promotion
of cookers, including provision of technical assistance to the
program's management unit in MEM's Energy Department.
3.   Electric Cookers
A study to evaluate the feasibility of manufacturing or
importing about 35,000 to 50,000 low-cost, two-burner electric
cookers for supply to existing power consumers within TANESCO's
Interconnected System.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
TANESCO Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (6) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A and C.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into      TANESCO Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the TANESCO Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the TANESCO Special Account has been duly opened, with-
drawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the TANESCO Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the TANESCO Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the TANESCO Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Association shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the TANESCO Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the TANESCO Special Account with


﻿- 19 -
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
TANESCO Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposits furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the TANESCO
Special Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such
request, such other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the TANESCO Special Account
shall be made by the Association when either of the following
situations first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and
C.3 of the Project, minus the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, with respect to Parts A and
C.3  of  the  Project, shall    be  equal  to  the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories for Parts A and C.3 of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the TANESCO Special
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 20 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the TANESCO Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the TANESCO Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the
TANESCO Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the TANESCO Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Associa-
tion, refund to the Association such oatstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
ME14 Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" mean Categories (5),
(6) (c) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eli-
gible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(c)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the MEM Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the MEM Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the MEM Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the MEM Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the MEM Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the MEM Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the MEM Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenit   he MEM Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 22 -
amount of payments made out of the MEM Special Account for eli-
gible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the MEM Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the MEM Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situa-
tions first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for Parts C.1
and C.2 of the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts C.1 and
C.2  of   the  Project, shall   be  equal  to  the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the MEM
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 23 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the MEM Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the MEM Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the MEM
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the MEM Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2 5     day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


