Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22918-BU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.10 MILLION
(US$36 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL AND ORPHANS PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE US$ 500 MILLION MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS
PROGRAM (MAP2) (APL) FOR THE AFRICA REGION
March 28, 2002
Human Development, Group III
Country Department CD9
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Fbu (Burundi Francs)
Fbu 1 = US$0.001175
US$1 = 851 Fbu
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACTafrica   AIDS Campaign Team for Africa                MAOP       Multisectoral HIV/AIDS control and
AIDS        Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome                     Orphans Project
ART         Antiretroviral TheraDv                       MAP        Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program
BHS         Behavioral and Health Survey                 MCT        Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV
BMS         Behavioral Monitoring Surveys                MIS        Management Information System
BOD         Burden of Diseases                           MOE        Ministry of Education
BURSAP      Burundi Social Action Project                MOH        Ministry of Health
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                  MOSA       Ministry of Social Affairs
CBO         Community-based Organization                 MPVS       Ministry in charge of the fight against
CDC         Communal Development Committees                         HIV/AIDS
CDF         Community Development Fund                   MSPP       Multisectoral STIIHIV/AIDS Prevention
CEFORMI     Centre de Formation et de Recherche en                  Program
Maladies Infectieuses                        MSHAP       Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Program
CMS         Commercial Marketing Strategies              MWMP       Medical Waste Management Plan
CNLS        Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA     NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report        NGO        Non-govemmental Organization
CPLS        Comite Provincial de Lutte contre le SIDA    NHP        National Health Plan
CSW         Commercial Sex Workers                       NSP        National Strategic Plan
DCA         Development Credit Agreement                 OSC        Civil Society Organization
DHS         Demographic and Health Survey                PES        CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat
EMP         Environmental Management Project             PIM        Project Implementation Manual
EU          European Union                               PNLS       MOH Unit in charge of the National
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization                       Program against HIV/AIDS
FMR         Financial Management Report                  PMCT       Prevention of Mother-to-Child
FMS         Financial Management Section                            Transmission
GLIA        Great Lakes Initiative against HIV/AIDS      PPF        Project Preparation Facility
GOB         Govemment of Burundi                         PLWHA      People Living With HIV/AIDS
GPN         General Procurement Notice                   PSI        Povulation Services Intemational
HDI         Human Development Index                      STI        Sexually Transmitted Infection
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries              TA         Technical Assistance
HIS         Health Information System                    TB         Tuberculosis
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus                 TOR        Terms of Reference
IAPSO       Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office     UNAIDS     United Nations Joint Programme on
IFAD        Intemational Fund for Agricultural                      HIV/AIDS
Development                                  UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population
IEC         Information, Education, and Communicatic                Activities
ILO         Intemational Labor Organization              USAID      United States Agency for Intemational
ISTEEBU     Institut d'Etudes Economiques du Burundi                Development
KAP studies Knowledge Attitude and Practice studies      VCT        Voluntary Counseling and Testing
LOI         Letter of Invitation                         WFP        World Food Programme
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation                    WHO        World Health Organization
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
Country Director:       Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:       Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader:        Malonga Miatudila



BURUNDI
MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL AND ORPHANS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      22
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         23
2. Financial                                                                        24
3. Technical                                                                        24
4. Institutional                                                                    25
5. Environmental                                                                    26
6. Social                                                                            28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               30



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   30
2. Critical risks                                                                   31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          33
2. Other                                                                            33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Sumnary                                                        35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       64
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         65
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   80
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 82
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                83
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          84
Annex 11: Supervision Plan                                                             86
MAP(S)
No. IBRD 30118



BURUNDI
Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH3
Date: March 28, 2002                             Team Leader: Malonga Miatudila
Country Manager/Director: Emmanuel Mbi           Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P071371                              Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS, SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
.P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ".1
.PojRctQEitnancin>D,a,ta . :: rier5k;£.,_t>,,I,< j,y r..±,: -Sjil^ ^.                   ¢.i.
J Loan    mX Credit     [ I Grant    [ Guarantee      [1 Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 36
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: up to 0.5%                       Service charge: 0.75%
F.xacng Plin (US$Sm). S  Source,                                            M-!¢:W. TACKS t  -l L.  iS,or   R
BORROWER                                                      0.70           0.00          0.70
IDA                                                          14.92          21.08  l      36.00
Total:                                                       15.62          21.08         36.70
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BUJRUNDI
Responsible agency: NATIONAL AIDS COMMISSION
(CNLS)
Address: B.P.3424
Contact Person: Dr. Joseph Wakana
Tel: 257 22 3094           Fax: 257 22 4422           Email: Pnls@Cni.Cbinf.Com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
*~ jf .     -  , 2003. /. .w1200Qii 4Xa ;i 5Q  .     6 2
Annual      4.50      7.50      10.00     10.50       3.50           l
Cumulative     4.50     12.00      22.00     32.50      36.00
Project Implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
fs PAO  ,.   V d  o-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project (MAOP) would support the implementation of
Burundi's Multi Sectoral HIV/AIDS Program (MSHAP), as set forth in its "Action Plan for the Struggle
Against HIVIAIDSfor the period 2002-2006" and summarized in Annex 2A. The development objectives
of both the National Program and the Project are to:
*   Slow the spread of HIV/AIDS in the general population; and
*   Mitigate the darnage of HIV/AIDS on individuals and families.
These objectives would be attained through multi-sectoral actions that involve all line ministries and engage
civil society, including religious organizations, private enterprises, labor unions, farmers,women, youth and
students' associations, people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), and other nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs).
The ultimate indicator of the outcome of this struggle is HIV incidence rate. The objective, over a period
that may surpass the duration of the above mentioned Action Plan, is to hold the prevalence rate to its
current rate of 12% and then to progressively beat it back downward. However, several uncertain forces
influence the prevalence and incidence rate, such as conflicts and population movements in Burundi and
neighboring countries.
-2 -



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the development objectives will be monitored using the following indicators.
Indicator                                       Value        Mid Term     Closing Date
around
Effectiveness
Outcome
Percentage of adults who report using a        43             50            60
condom during their last contact with a non
regular partner
Percentage of girls 15 years old or younger who  18           15            10
report being sexually active
Percentage of orphans placed with families by  N.A            60            80
the pilot component who advance from one grad
of primary school to the next
Percentage of women who test positive for       3             2              1
syphilis during prenatal consultations
Output
Percentage of ministries which have            20             70            100
incorporated HIV/AIDS prevention in their
work plan and budget
Percentage of health facilities which have    N.A             70            100
improved blood safety and safe injection
practices
Percentage of registered orphaned children who  5             30            70
receive social support at community level
Process
Number of civil society organizations working  NA            200            400
in HIV/AIDS receiving support to implement
their sub-projects
Percentage of grants from the project flowing to  N.A         40            60
osC
Percentage of sub-projects supported and      N.A             50            75
supervised by the staff of CPLS.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19592-BU (Interim strategy) Date of latest CAS discussion: July 30, 1999
The last Burundi CAS (Report no. 14442-Bu of May 2, 1995) preceded the military coup of 1996. It is
therefore superseded by the Interim Transitional Strategy presented to the Board on July 30, 1999, once
payment of arrears in debt service resumed and a peace process was initiated. The emphasis of this
Strategy is inter alia: (i) to restore basic social services; and (ii) to promote good governance and
ownership through participation in rehabilitation and reconstruction. An update of this Strategy is now
under preparation which further confirms the importance of supporting the health sector and in particular
the struggle against HIV/AIDS. The proposed project is therefore fully consistent will the Bank's strategic
priorities for Burundi. Moreover, activities under this project will be complementary to that of the
- 3 -



on-going Second Health and Population Project, Second Social Action Project, and the Emergency
Recovery Credit. The first two of these aim respectively at restoring the district health system (a basic tool
for use in preventing HIV/AIDS) and at supporting local initiatives for the rehabilitation and provision of
small infrastructure and for improving the health and nutrition of young children and their mothers.
The Govermment of Burundi (GOB) has requested access to IDA resources within the framework of the
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region, approved by the Board of Directors of
the World Bank Group on September 12, 2000. Burundi is eligible for MAP funding, as it has satisfied the
four criteria:
*   Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to IEIV/AIDS. Burundi has elaborated a coherent
national, multi-sectoral strategy for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment and developed an action
plan for its implementation over the 2002-2006 period. Both exercises result from an intensive
participatory process at the national, intermediary, and local levels, involving representatives of civil
society, including NGOs, religious groups, associations of people living with HIV/AIDS,
representatives of the Government, and HIV/AIDS experts, as well as the collaboration of UNAIDS
and bilateral donors. The resulting Action Plan was presented to open meetings in the cities of
Bujumbura, Gitega, Ngozi and Bururi and its final version, which is supported by the local UN
thematic group on HIV/AIDS, was approved by the National AIDS Commission (CNLS).
*   Existence of a high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body. In July 2001, the National AIDS
Commission (CNLS) was established in the President's Office, with broad representation of key
stakeholders from public and private sectors, to oversee and coordinate implementation of the national
strategic plan. The CNLS replaces the special unit created in 1986 in the Ministry of Health (MOH) to
lead the Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA. The MOH unit dealt successfully with medical
activities for the control of HIV infection, but failed to expand these to other sectors, largely because of
its lack of leverage over other sector ministries. In November 2001, the Government created a Ministry
in charge of coordinating the national program against HIV/AIDS (MPVS).
* Government agreement to use exceptional implementation arrangements. The Govermment of
Burundi (GOB) has agreed to channel funds directly to implementing agencies, including civil society
organizations, communities and decentralized sub-national levels. The GOB has also agreed to contract
out any appropriate activities and to use simplified administrative procedures.
* Government agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies. Expansion of
HIV/AIDS activities to all ministries, departrnents and parastatals within the public sector is the
backbone of the GOB's strategic Plan. The GOB has agreed to fund activities initiated by the private
sector, civil society organizations including nongovernmental and community-based organizations, and
AIDS service providers. In addition, the Government has agreed to further expand HIV/AIDS
activities to community level and to support community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    Main sector issues.
Since 1962, the Govemment of Burundi has taken many steps to ensure the provision of basic social
services with assistance, from intemational partners. Major steps taken to control the spread of diseases and
improve public health include: (i) the adoption of a National Health Policy based on primary health care in
1977; (ii) the impressive extension of the network of health facilities in Burundi as evidenced by the
increase in the number of hospitals (49 in 2001, up from 20 in 1960) and health centers (449 in 2001, up
from 70 in 1960); (iii) decentralization of health administration as reflected by the authority given to
-4-



autonomous hospitals and provincial regional bureaus; (iv) establishment of Mutuelle de la Fonction
Publique, Carte d'Assistance Medicale, and other innovative schemes to improve the financing of the health
sector. As Burundi is trying to recover from the 1993 civil strife that resulted in more than 500,000 deaths
and forced about 800,000 persons to emigrate, it is faced with the following issues:
* A worsening of the population's health status: Burundi's social indicators which, before 1993, were
comparable to the average for Sub-Saharan Africa despite the country's extremely low GDP per
capita, have now markedly worsened. The infant mortality rate increased from 110 per 1,000 in 1993
to 125 in 1998 and children's immunization coverage which stood at 80 percent in 1992 plummeted to
60 percent in 1998. Life expectancy fell from 55 years in 1993 to less than 53 in 1999. Malnutrition,
measured by wasting among children under five, is estimated to have increased from less than 6 percent
in 1993 to more than 20 percent in 2001. The crisis also contributed to a dramatic increase in
infectious diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhea, tuberculosis, malaria, and AIDS, particularly in the
camps of displaced persons and refugees.
* Poor basic social services: The GOB's capacity to improve people's lives is limited by: (a)
widespread poverty; (b) shortage of human resources; (c) inadequacy of the financing mechanisms for
the social sectors; (d) declining staff morale, partly due to extremely low wages; and (e) lack of
maintenance of physical facilities and equipment. The lack of resources severely limits the effectiveness
of the basic health and education systems --which could prove formidable tools for fighting HIV/AIDS.
Between 1992 and 2000, the limited capacity of NGOs has also been a constraint. In addition, capacity
at the decentralized level is limited by the lack of personnel and budget at the provincial and communal
administration levels. With regard to prevention, IEC activities are weak and fragmented; facilities and
drugs for treatment of opportunistic infections are inadequate; and the use of antiretroviral therapy
(ART) to prevent mother to child transmission of HIV/AIDS is limited. With regard to mitigation,
neither public nor private providers can carry out psychological, social, food, or income-generating
support for orphans and people affected by HIV/AIDS at the scale necessary. The same is true for
home-based care for people with AIDS, particularly outside Bujumbura. For people living with AIDS,
treatment with anti-retroviral therapy is limited to the few who can afford it. Low levels of literacy and
basic education, particularly among women, limited access to clean water and sanitation, and social
disruption help perpetuate a cycle of poverty and high fertility. Poverty is rampant in Burundi, where
more than 70 percent of the population live on less than US$1 a day.
* The rapid spread of HIV/AIDS: Burundi has an adult HIV prevalence of 12 percent, up from less
than 1 percent in 1980. At the end of 1999, about 360,000 adults (in the 1549 age group) and 19,000
children (under 15) were living with HIV/AIDS. The number of deaths due to AIDS is estimated to be
between 11,000 and 39,000 in 1999 alone. HIV infection is not evenly distributed among different
groups. In 1999, the sero-prevalence rates were estimated at 18.5 percent in urban areas and 6 percent
in rural areas. As in much of Africa, women suffer disproportionately from HIV/AIDS: 55.8% of
adults living with HIV/AIDS in Burundi are women. HIV/AIDS constitutes a major threat to the
country's development, as it affects all sectors of society and is rapidly canceling the development gains
made in the 1970s. It has become the leading cause of mortality among adults. The high prevalence of
HIW/AIDS among the general population in Burundi can be attributed to: inadequate knowledge and
inappropriate attitude; high prevalence of risky behaviors and of STIs as well as poor sexual and
reproductive health; women's subordinate status; sociopolitical instability; limited resources; and
poverty.
* The catastrophic impact of the epidemic on children. A massive generation of orphans is emerging
in the Central African Region from a combination of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the breakdown of the
public health system, and civil conflict. In Burundi, a UNICEF & ISTEEBU survey found that a
striking 19 percent of all children aged 0 to 14, or 558,000 children, have lost at least one parent; about
- 5-



77,000 children (2.6%) have lost both parents. There are no firm figures on the number of children
orphaned by HIV/AIDS since it is hard to determine the cause of parents' death, but a rough estimate
by the UNICEF and WHO places the figure between 160,000 and 230,000 in Burundi.
2.2    Government strategy.
The Government strategy to address these issues is two-pronged: (i) to tackle systemic issues by engaging
in a broad health sector reform so as to preserve Burundi's achievements since independence and (ii)
mobilize the whole nation in a struggle against HIV/AIDS.
Sector-wide reforms: In 1997, the Ministry of Health launched a series of public discussions on the
problems of the health sector. Widespread consultations and a broad participatory approach resulted in the
development of a National Health Plan (NHP) and the adoption of a framework for far reaching sector
reforms. During the Social Sector Round Table in May 1997, a core program based on a sharper
prioritization of the NHP was agreed upon as the basis for cooperation between the government and its
partners for the period 1997-2001. In October 1998, the Government held another consultation with donors
and NGOs who expressed their willingness to support the core program of the NHP, and pledged
substantial financial support.
Struggle against HIV/AIDS: The Government of Burundi first responded to the crisis in 1986, i.e. three
years after the first HIV cases were diagnosed in the country, and implemented an impressive number of
actions:
*   Institutional arrangements: In 1986, the National Program for the Struggle Against AIDS was
established in the Ministry of Health. On November 1, 2001, a Ministry of HIV/AIDS was created
following a reshuffle of the Government in the context of the Arusha Peace Agreement. The newly
created Ministry has taken over some of the functions previously assigned to the Office of the
Second Vice President.
*   Design and Implementation of strategic plans. Over 1997-98, a task force established in the
Ministry of Health consulted widely with stakeholders, including representatives of the private
sector, religious groups, NGOs, and people living with HIV/AIDS. This participatory process
culminated in a national workshop in October 1998 and led to a consensus on priority measures for
combatting HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS strategic plan for 1999-2003 was formally adopted in
November 1998. The country's successive action plans for the control of HIV/AIDS have achieved
impressive results which are detailed in Annex 2A; and
*   Widening the spectrum of implementing agencies. In Burundi, AIDS control activities are
implemented by public and private agencies. At first, the Ministry of Health had the largest
HIV/AIDS action plan. Later on, other key ministries, notably the Ministry of Information, the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of National Defense as well as private agencies, joined the
fight against HIV/AIDS. In 2000, about 35 Burundian NGOs were active in the fight against
HIV/AIDS. Fifteen NGOs have established an umbrella group, which provides logistical support
to its members. The NGOs are especially active in Information, Education and Communication
(IEC); HIV/AIDS counselling; provision of psycho-social and material support, especially to
orphans and widows; and medical assistance to people living with HIV/AIDS and to their families.
However, the Govenmment is concemed that national efforts through multiple initiatives to control
HIV/AIDS did not translate into commensurate results, as illustrated by the continuous growth of the
sero-prevalence rate particularly in rural areas. Successive Behavioral Monitoring Surveys do not show
any significant change with improved knowledge of HIV/AIDS. Although 95.5% of adults surveyed cite
- 6 -



AIDS as Burundi's most important health problem, more than 10% of them have misconceptions regarding
transmission of HIV infection and condom use remains low (24.6% among men and 18.5% among women).
In recognition of these inadequacies, the Government has decided to intensify HIV/AIDS control activities.
To that end, the 2002-2006 Strategic Plan was elaborated through a broad participatory process and with
support from the donor community, as described above in para. B. 1. This Plan, which is detailed in Annex
2.A, calls for:
* Continued commitment of the Head of State, Government, political and religious leaders, and
communities, to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemics;
* Clearly articulated strategic choice to adopt a multi-sector program to combat HIV/AIDS;
* Decentralization of activities, reinforcement of partnerships and stronger involvement of all strata
of the community;
* Greater emphasis on prevention, VCT, treatment, and care for PLWHA, according to eligibility
requirements;
* Identification of mechanisms for channeling resources efficiently; and
* Build on and expand on achievements so far made in fighting against HIV/AIDS.
Concrete steps already taken by the Government towards implementation of this strategy include:
* the creation, in July 2001, of the National AIDS Commission (CNLS) in the President's office to
provide the visibility necessary to increase support for a multi-sectoral effort to control HIV/AIDS;
* the translation of the Strategy into a concrete Action Plan for the period 2002-2006 which was
approved by the CNLS; and
*   promulgation of an organizational structure streamlining the function of the new Ministry
responsible for coordinating the fight against HIV/AIDS.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The choice has been made in the 2002-2006 GOB Strategic Plan to intensify its AIDS control activities at
all levels and secure the necessary financial and human resources for the prevention, detection, treatment
(for opportunistic infections and MCT) and follow-up of HIV/AIDS with particular emphasis on
monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The lines of the national response are:
*   Prevention:
* Reduction of high risk behaviors;
* Promotion of condom use and distribution of condoms;
* Detection and treatment of STIs;
* Ensuring safe blood transfusion;
* Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT);
* Prevention of mother-to-child transmission of H1V;
* Mitigation of the damage caused by HIV/AIDS:
*   Placement of orphans with families, strengthening the well-being of host famnilies;
* Financing of scholarships for orphans' primary education;
* Expansion of home care for people living with HIV/AIDS;
*   Expansion of treatment of opportunistic infections;
* Skills training and revenue-generating activities to expand the financial capacity of extended
families and local communities to cope with HIV/AIDS and provide support for people infected or
affected with HIV, particularly individuals with AIDS, and widows; and
- 7 -



* Capacity building:
* Organization of HIV/AIDS teams in line ministries and public enterprises to promote the
prevention of HIV/AIDS and to provide support to people affected by HIV/AIDS;
* Establishment of HIV/AIDS committees in the 16 provinces and the municipality of Bujumbura;
* Surveys on the behavior of social groups in relation to the HIV/AIDS epidemic; and
*   Monitoring, evaluation and epidemiological surveillance.
The MAOP will contribute to the implementation of the Burundi Program by supporting a wide range of
HIV/AIDS control activities by public and private implementing agencies.
With regard to anti-retroviral drugs, the project may consider a request by the Government to finance ART
for the general population in addition to support of MCT prevention, provided that the country develops
guidelines satisfactory to IDA and the health care infrastructure needed for safe, effective, and sustainable
use of these drugs. Such a request would be submitted to IDA in conjunction with UNAIDS, WHO and
other relevant agencies.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
To slow the spread of HIV/AIDS and mitigate its impact on individuals and families, the project has the
following components:
Component 1: Strengthening Public Sector response to the crisis (US$ 9.3 million).
This component supports a major expansion of HIV/AIDS activities implemented by public sector entities.
Under the national Program, all ministries are expected to develop and implement specific sectoral
HIV/AIDS strategies. The project will accelerate this process by: (i) supporting the development, by each
sector of an HIV/AIDS control strategy and action plan, targeting the population and/or domains relevant
to the respective sectors; (ii) financing activities which have been selected to carry out sectoral strategies;
and (iii) implement a national medical waste management plan. Activities will cover a wide range of
prevention, mitigation and capacity building actions as set forth in the National Plan (see Annex 2A). Some
of these may involve public sector contracting of service delivery to civil society groups or associations.
Component 2: Increasing Civil Society Response (US$ 13.4 million).
This component is designed to increase HIV/AIDS control activities initiated and implemented by
grass-roots organizations and communities, in the areas of prevention, mitigation and capacity building
proposed in the National Strategic Plan. Initiatives of private sector enterprises to develop and implement
prevention and mitigation strategies for their employees and families will also be promoted and supported.
Proposals will be assessed against eligibility criteria, norms and standards for implementation which have
been defined in a Project Implementation Manual. Funds will be granted directly to associations, religious
organizations, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations. Grant recipients'
responsibilities will be embodied in contractual agreements signed before works start. Provisions will be
made for larger and more experienced NGOs to support the smaller ones.
- 8 -



Component 3: Orphans Integration & Education Pilot (US$ 7 milion).
The Component will: (i) support the placement of orphans with their extended family; or, when impossible,
with an unrelated family; (ii) provide orphans with scholarships for primary education and vocational
training; (iii) strengthen the economic and nutritional well being of families that care for orphans through
investments to supplement nutrition (such as gardening) and income-generating activities; and (iv) provide
training for the informal job market to older adolescent orphans. To ensure integration in the community,
services to orphans will be delivered by community organizations such as faith-based communities and
community development committees. These organizations will receive support from consulting companies,
or domestic and national NGOs with expertise in work with children.
The component will be implemented by combining and interrelating several interventions below, as
appropriate for the specific conditions of the target areas:
Sub-component one -family placement. The sub-component will finance placement of priority groups of
orphans into families rather than into institutions such as large orphanages. Moreover, orphans will be
placed, when possible, with a household that is part of their extended family.
Sub-component two -primary education and vocational training. Most of Component 3 resources will
fund education and training for orphans.
* Primary education scholarships. To this end, the sub-component finances primary education fees
(minervals), and also school uniforms, textbooks, notebooks, pens, and school bags for the most
vulnerable groups of primary school-aged orphans.
*   Vocational training. To assist older, adolescent, orphans, the component will support their training for
informal market jobs in areas such as agriculture, sewing, masonry, carpentry, bicycle repair, auto
mechanics, etc. The community meetings will identify qualifying orphans, focusing on orphan-headed
households. The component could also help organize adolescents who have graduated from vocational
training into productive cooperatives to generate income and to sustain their livelihood.
Sub-component three - revenue generating activities. The sub-component will support families and
communities which care for orphans. Such support will include financing of revenue generating activities,
and activities that improve their food security.
*   Gardenine- For families who take orphans into care, the project will support the distribution of grants
in the form of vegetable seeds and gardening tools as a means of durably strengthening families' food
security.
*   Revenue generating activities. For families and communities who take orphans into care, the Project
will support revenue-generating micro-projects as a way of permanently improving a family's capacity
to pay the health and school fees of an additional child. The micro-projects can be managed by
individual families or by family groups.
Component 4: Strengthening the Program Strategic Formulation, Implementation, Monitoring, and
Evaluation Capacity (US$ 4 million)
This component is designed to reinforce the capacity of public and private agencies in the design,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of HIlV/AIDS control activities. Specifically,
capacity-building support will consist of the following sub-components: (i) strengthening the CNLS to
promote, coordinate, monitor and evaluate HIV/AIDS control activities performed by various sectors and
-9-



agencies; (ii) articulation of sector strategies to combat HIV/AIDS; (iii) epidemiological surveillance; (iv)
research; (v) strengthening capacity of implementing agencies, including CBOs, local NGOs, Associations,
Unions, private commercial enterprises, and CDCs to design and efficiently implement AIDS Control
activities; and (vi) technical training of a wide range of professional, including but not limited to health
professionals communication specialists and social workers.
Component 5: Project coordination (US$ 3 million)
This component aims to ensure efficient coordination of the project's HIV/AIDS control activities by all
concemed parties. While several agencies will benefit from the Credit and will execute project activities,
the CNLS will have overall responsibility for project facilitation and coordination. The multisectoral nature
of the proposed operation makes adequate coordination and monitoring of activities an essential element for
successful project implementation. To that end, the project supports the CNLS in its project facilitation and
coordination role by financing office equipment; some operational costs, and short and long-term technical
assistance to support project coordination activities.
Component               '       -      .,-;cX ....... ,, , . ; . ,Indicative  - . Bank-  %of
cd        . '  .mponent     .ector.         sts, , % of      financing   Bank-.
_________,.___,__,__;;__.______       -     '      (USSM )    ;-  ...Total~  -,i  ..(USSM )`  fina  ncing
1. Strengthening Public Sector   HIV/AIDS               9.30      25.3      9.00      25.0
Response to the HIV/AIDS crisis
2. Increasing Participation of grass-root HIV/AIDS     13.40      36.5     13.00       36.1
organizations and communities
3.Orphans Integration and Education  Other Social       7.00      19.1      7.00       19.4
Protection
4. Strengthening Program Strategic  HIV/AIDS            4.00      10.9      4.00       11.1
Formulation and Monitoring Capacity
5. Project Coordination           HIV/AIDS              3.00       8.2      3.00        8.3
Total Project Costs                   36.70     100.0     36.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    36.70      100.0     36.00     100.0
Project costs in the above table do not include direct taxes.
For the purpose of this project, total costs are defined as the total cost of activities involving IDA financing.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project is a multi-sectoral operation that is not intended explicitly to address long-term sector and
institutional reforms within any one sector, or to include conditions linked to macroeconomic or sector
policies. However, the Project's implementation will result in institutional reforms across several sectors
working on HIV/AIDS. These include:
*   strengthening the institutional capacity of the CNLS;
*   strengthening of the various public and private implementing agencies;
*   empowering communities to play a stronger advocacy role;
*   improving inter-ministerial coordination;
- 10-



*   strengthening the sentinel surveillance system and
*   establishing a strong M&E system, with donor and beneficiary participation.
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1 Benefits
Social and medical benefits: The project is likely to lower Burundi's burden of disease (BOD) as
prevention and treatment for STIs, tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections become more efficiently
provided. Child mortality will decline as the number of HIV-infected children decrease. The rising trend in
orphanhood will slow with reduction in premature deaths among parents. The Project interventions will
also mitigate the economic and social impact of HIV/AIDS in the population, by targeting interventions on
orphans, women and the rural poor. National productivity and earnings will rise as mortality and morbidity
among people in their most productive years is decreased. The lives of people living with AIDS will be
improved and extended as prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections improve and as nutritional
supplements for people living with HIV/AIDS is sustained. Finally, the national mobilization against
AIDS, including strengthening of local capacity, may result in pooling energy, creativity, and resources
from all segments of society. The development of local partnerships and coalitions against HIV may
contribute to unite individuals and households across ethnic and other boundaries. These bonds are likely to
help reduce social animosity and contribute to accelerating the return of peace in Central Africa.
Financial benefits: Cost savings to public sector as well as to family and individuals are expected from
the decrease in future needs for treatment, care, and support. Assuming 12 to 16 percent prevalence rate
among adults without the project for the next five years, the Project's strategy to contain the prevalence
rate at 12 percent will avert about 150,000 new infections. The lowering of the BOD due to STIs and
tuberculosis should also bring additional savings in health care costs.
Economic benefits: Stabilizing the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate will have a positive impact on economic
growth, as consistently demonstrated by international experience. UNAIDS estimates that overall economic
growth over the next decade in Burundi is likely to be 0.3 to 0.4 percentage points lower every year than it
would have been without AIDS. Stemming the rise in HIV/AIDS through this project will keep more
Burundians at work, increase the productivity of the economy, enable the economy to recover, and help to
reverse Burundi's economic decline.
Capacity Building: Implementing the Project through decentralized multi-sector agencies working with
beneficiary communities will strengthen Burundi's national capacity at all levels to deal effectively with
future challenges posed by this and other epidemics.
3.2 Target population
The project is intended to reach the entire population of Burundi and to prevent the spread of infection
among all groups in the country, giving particular attention to:
*   High-risk groups, namely: (i) orphans and other extremely vulnerable children; (ii) women in
reproductive age; (iii) commercial sex workers; (iv) youth (in,and out of school); (v) long-distance
truck drivers; (vi) people infected with STIs; (vii) armed forces; and (viii) displaced persons and
refugees; and
*   People infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS infection.
-1 1-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1     Institutional Structure
The GOB has established an institutional framework that reflects the multisectoral nature of the national
HIV/AIDS program and facilitates the establishment of an effective partnership between all sectors and
civil society for a concerted and decentralized response to the epidemic. The project will rely on the
structure illustrated below:
CNIS Gafsr AsswO6':                EUAM     Secf rFocdl Te.um
Char: Presi&M of Busdi             Coompoition: Ltnt lziIsty D
Composeim: Hig level               RxrosesntAes of Cil Soiety
(idals it aseltates of
Civil Socity
CNIS Cooxlhalbw Cummdttac           RO*dil lVHiAflS Cu
- Chat: Prtsident d Burardi         Coqgosklai: Loccl uimhislio  A
comosntion: Vce-Pzesidet           R ysarStnis of Cmil Society
N     revs__                                                   __
L     c6ev                               C   _oxuma IViAfl  cH
-Chak: MPtE                        Campostion: Local ehdhvo
Coosekit: CNLS Director e          Resaaives od Cmii Society
2 rqereseriiet o cuiril society
CNIS lumudt  Euietiw
M Chai: CNLS Director               Loc llV/AIMS C    fuiif
- Comosimon: Conruted ful           Campostox: Local eIisUWion
ste stf at ce,ml e Pff#&erd         Repr"aaatves of Civil Socity
imls
The National Council for the Fight against HIV/AIDS (CNLS)
The Conseil National de Lutte contre le Syndrome Immuno-Deficitaire Acquis (CNLS) is placed under
the Office of the President and operates pursuant to the Decree No. 100/032 dated March 1, 2002,
amending the Decree No. 100/015 dated February 4, 2002. This Decree clarifies the relationship between
MPVS (the newly created HIV/AIDS Ministry) and the CNLS. The CNLS is charged with providing the
general orientation of the national HIV/AlDS program and overseeing its implementation and relies on the
Permanent Executive Secretariat, its technical arm, for the day-to-day coordination of the Project.
The General Assembly constitutes the plenary body of CNLS. It is chaired by the President of Burundi and
is composed of high-level civil service officials, including the Minister of Finance, as well as
representatives of civil society. The General Assembly will meet at least once every three months. During
- 12 -



its fourth annual meeting, the General Assembly of the CNLS will review and approve implementation
plans for the following year. These plans will be formally submitted to the Bank for comments and review.
The CNLS Coordination Bureau is charged with overseeing the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS.
This body is chaired by the President of Burundi and is composed of the Vice-President of Burundi and the
MPVS.
The CNLS Permanent Executive Committee is the executive body of the CNLS. It is chaired by the MPVS
and composed of two representatives of civil society and the Director of the Permanent Executive
Secretariat. The Permanent Executive Committee is charged with coordinating the implementation of the
national HIV/AIDS program. It will be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project, and in
particular for promotion of the Project, review of funding exceptionally large proposals (i.e. equivalent or
above US$ 100,000) and monitoring of progress.
The CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat (CNLS-PES) is the administrative and technical arm of the
CNLS, responsible for project coordination. It is headed by the Secretary to the Executive Committee and
composed of at least 6 full-time contracted staff selected on a competitive basis (specialists in the area of
HIV/AIDS, training, monitoring and evaluation, financial management and accounting, and procurement)
at both central and provincial levels. The PES will ensure the day-to-day project coordination.
Specifically, the PES will be responsible for: (a) development of its annual work programs and budget; (b)
procurement and disbursement activities; (c) monitoring and evaluation; (d) financial management; and (e)
reporting to and assisting the CNLS. The PES is also expected to promote local and provincial activities
and to provide support for the formulation of funding proposals. The CNLS PES will review the annual
work programs and budget proposals by ministries and other governmental institutions. The activities and
projects that appear in the ministry's annual program will then be considered approved for funding. The
CNLS PES will also review individual funding proposals for either (i) submission to the CNLS Permanent
Executive Committee, or, (ii) for approval if the proposals amount equal to or more than US$10,000 but
less than U$ 100,000. Once a work program or project proposal is approved, the CNLS PES will sign a
contractual agreement with the implementing agency.
Sectoral focal teams will be established for each sector, comprising representatives of government
institutions and private organizations to drive development of the various sector strategies. These focal
teams will be responsible for facilitating development and implementation of sector strategies as well as
identifying and promoting projects for each sector. The teamns will receive technical assistance as needed.
Provincial HIV/AIDS committees will be established in all provinces and the municipality of Bujumbura.
They will be composed of heads of department and representatives of civil society organizations. On
average they will include 15 members, of which 5 will be women and at least one from the PLWHA. The
provincial committees will be responsible for promoting activities to be funded under the Project and for
monitoring implementation progress. The Teams will have the authority to approve proposals that are more
than US$3,000 but less than US$10,000.
Communal development committees (CDC) have been established under the BURSAP I and II projects
financed by IDA, a project financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and a
number of projects supported by NGOs. In July 2001, about two thirds of the 121 communes had a CDC.
These committees will play a major role in promoting the messages of the HIV/AIDS program. They will
help local agencies and organizations prepare proposals for funding. They will have the authority to
approve proposals costing less than the equivalent of US$3000.
- 13 -



4.2    Operational Arrangements
A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was prepared by the CNLS PES in close collaboration with
representatives from the Government and civil society. Its was transmitted to IDA prior to negotiations and
was reviewed during negotiations. The revised PIM adequately defines the project's institutional and
implementation arrangements, the responsibilities and mandates of each participating entity, as well as the
functional relationships between actors. It defines procedures and criteria for review and approval of
funding proposals and provides guidelines for the preparation, implementation and supervision of funding
proposals. It defines the contractual arrangements between the CNLS and implementing agencies and
includes standard contracts for a broad range of activities. The Manual defines procurement arrangements
and financial management requirements, including accounting norms and reporting requirements at all
levels. The module on Financial Management has been developed to ensure adequate management of the
Project. Its use and contents as well as modalities for any future amendments have been found satisfactory
to IDA and are part of the Credit Agreement. The manual also specifies the proposal review threshold for
each entity along the following lines:
Entity                     Amount offunding proposal (US$ equivalent)
CNLS Executive Committee                    proposals = 100,000 and > 1 00,000
CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat        proposals < 100,000 and > 10,000
Provincial HIV/AIDS Committees              proposals < 10,000 and > 3,000
Communal HIV/AIDS Committees                proposals < 3,000
Implementing Agencies. Activities funded under the project will be implemented by public and private
organizations and implemented in an incremental manner starting with line ministries, NGOs, and CBOs
which already have HIV/AIDS work plans and projects. Coverage will be extended to other public sectors
and civil society organizations as their implementation capacity is strengthened and their work plans and
projects are prepared.
On the government side, public entities at the national, provincial, and local levels will prepare funding
proposals. These will be consolidated annually by line ministries in a work plan and budget for each fiscal
year, and the proposals will be implemented by public entities at national, provincial or local levels once
they are approved by the CNLS. The capacity of these entities will be strengthened by the Project under its
component 4. Sectoral focal points involving representatives of govemment institutions and private
organizations will be established for each sector to spearhead development of the various sector strategies.
The focal teams will validate proposals to ensure their conformity with sectoral standards, monitor
implementation, and report to CNLS on progress. Activities planned for the first year of project
implementation were identified during negotiations.
The funds that line ministries receive from MAOP will be complemented with contributions from line
ministry budgets to ensure provisions for Focal Points or HIV/AIDS units in each sector. Line ministries
will develop and implement plans through their existing central, regional, and departmental units.
Ministries will provide administrative and technical support to their implementation units, including
relevant guidelines, training, routine monitoring and evaluation, and resources channelled to regional and
departmental governments to enable a decentralized response to HIV/AIDS. A formal contract including a
work program and budget with agreed input and output indicators will guide the.relationship between line
ministries and the CNLS. The CNLS PES, particularly its financial unit, will be responsible for providing
technical assistance and quality control to line ministries.
- 14 -



The private implementing agencies will present their project proposals to the respective national, regional
or departmental committees and will be responsible for executing their projects. Any private agency may
decide to enter into contract with an NGO to assist in the preparation and implementation of projects. The
cost of such assistance should not exceed 20% of the total project cost. Communities will contribute in
kind to sub-project financing for a minimum amount of 5% of total project costs. Civil society
organizations (including NGOs, religious organizations, associations, unions, and private commercial
enterprises) may present sub-project proposals of a national, regional or departmental scope to be directly
financed by the project. Some private sector organizations may also be contracted to implement specific
project activities in the areas of research and evaluation or in any other topic area, as deemed necessary.
The eligibility and the level of funds allocated to each organization will be deternined according to a set of
criteria established for different categories of applicants. A roster of over 200 civil society organizations
working in HIV/AIDS has been compiled and categorized by experience, geographic coverage, target
beneficiaries and ability to carry out HIV/AIDS projects. The roster will be updated to include private
sector organizations and other associations and will be reviewed twice a year during project
implementation.
4.3    Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation
A detailed monitoring and evaluation system is included in the Project Implementation Manual. Monitoring
and evaluation are based on the indicators outlined in Annex 1, and the Development Credit Agreement.
For those indicators already monitored through the existing HIV/AIDS surveillance system, base line data
have been provided. Other indicators will be measured through studies and surveys carried out during the
first year of the project, prior to the Mid-term Review and at project completion. Measures for key
performance indicators at mid-term and end of Project were discussed, agreed at negotiations and are part
of the Project legal documents. As described in the PIM, the M&E function is the responsibility of the
CNLS PES. It will rely largely on external consultants/firms to carry out baseline and other surveys.
Representation of the CNLS and govenmment agencies at the provincial and communal levels makes it
possible to supervise the details of Project implementation, follow up activities and cross-sectoral
coordination at all administrative levels. Evaluation will be undertaken through annual Project reviews, a
mid-term Project review and a Project completion report to assess performance and its contribution to the
national effort to reduce the spread and impact of HIV/AIDS. All the reviews mentioned above are the
subject of dated covenants. Short-term consultants will be contracted when needed, and external technical
and financial audits of the project will be carried out annually by the govenmment in order to ensure
financial and technical compliance and quality control.
4.4    Procurement procedures
Procurement will be the responsibility of: (i) the General Directorate of Public Procurement; (ii) the PES
of the CNLS; and (iii) Non Governmental Organizations, private sector enterprises, associations and
beneficiary groups.
The General Directorate of public procurement will review bidding documents prepared by the CNLS PES,
conduct bid opening and awarding of contracts above the threshold required by the national procurement
regulations.
The CNLS will be responsible for all procurement activities except for those undertaken under the
community- based Component. Its PES will prepare and update annual procurement plans, prepare bidding
documents, participate in the bid evaluations, monitor and manage the execution of contracts. The CNLS
will work closely with line ministries, notably with the unit within the MOSA in charge of the Orphans
- 15 -



Component in order to assist them in the definition of their needs and to respond quickly to their eligible
requests.
Procurement for community subprojects and for private sector entities would be canied out by the
community-based organizations and the private sector entities acting as executing agencies except for items
such as condoms and drugs that would be procured in bulk by the Permanent Executive Secretariat of the
CNLS. Applications for subprojects would be sent to the CNLS, including to its provincial and local
branches. The subprojects would be assessed as well as the capacity of the community to implement
procurement activities derived from the subproject in accordance with the criteria established by the Project
implementation manual. Communities and NGOs which have no adequate competence to conduct their
own procurement activities will be asked to seek the assistance of a qualified consultant as condition of
approval of their subproject.
Procurement of goods and works required for the project and to be financed from the proceeds of the credit
shall be govemed by the Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit, published in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. National
Competitive Bidding will be carried out in accordance with Burundi procurement law and regulation and
Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA. The procedures contained in the manual will ensure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and fair participation. These procedures will specifically ensure that:
(i) bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; (ii) the bid documents clearly explain
criteria for the bid evaluation and award; (iii) bidders are given adequate response time ( minimum four
weeks ) to prepare and submit bids: (iv) bids are awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder and not arbitrarily;
(v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, are not to be precluded from participation and; (vi) no
domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic manufactures and suppliers.
Community-based organizations and local associations will use the Bank's Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments to Procure Goods or Services needed to
imnplement their respective community initiatives. Since each community-led initiative is expected to cost
less than US$30,000, 'local shopping' will be a standard procurement method. It is expected that the
simplified procurement guidelines for community-based investment will apply to about 30 percent of the
project's estimated cost.
Detailed procurement methods and prior review threshold are described in Annex 6.
4.5    Flow of Funds
To ensure timely and reliable flow of funds to communities who need them for program activities, a special
account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
The Special Account will be managed by the CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat and will cover
transactions related to all the project components. Funds to the implementing agencies will be done through
90 Day Advance procedures in conformity with the terms of contract signed between the CNLS and the
implementors. Implementing agencies will be provided with initial advances covering approximatively 90
days of funds requirement. Subsequent replenishments will be based on review of monthly financial and
physical progress reports submitted to the CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat or its peripheral
antennas by the implementors.
Funds deposited in the Special account will also be used by the CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat for
direct payment to suppliers of goods and services.
- 16 -



The CNLS PES will consolidate all project expenditures which will form the basis of a monthly SOE and
withdrawal request for replenishment of the Special Account. The Project Implementation Manual includes
a definition of those implementing agencies which will be allowed to retain supporting documentation
(receipts, invoices, etc..) for subsequent verification by external/internal auditors and bank staff. The Bank
has assessed the capabilities of the CNLS Financial Staff and deternined that they are capable of
undertaking the above functions, including monitoring of use of funds and physical outputs. The Financial
Staff of the CNLS is also capable of maintaining an adequate accounting system and preparing annual
financial statements for extemal audits.
The Project Implementation Manual describes in details all procedural aspects regarding financial
management (payments, replenishment, reporting, intemal control) and reference to the procedures outlined
in this manual are indicated in the DCA.
4.6    Financial management
Accounting and management of the project funds will be the responsibility of the Finance Section of the
Permanent Executive Secretariat of the CNLS. The Section will also be responsible for managing the
Special Account, ensuring that project expenditures are incurred in accordance with established procedures
and that adequate supporting documentation is retained for verification by supervision missions and
extemal auditors. The Section presently consists of a Finance Manager and an Accountant with adequate
qualifications and experience to undertake their respective tasks. Project coordination unit and IDA will
monitor developments and redeploy staff as soon as it becomes necessary as volume and complexity of
project transactions increase.
The project will install an appropriate accounting software capable of generating financial data and
periodic reports required by IDA. It will also submit quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
beginning with the first full (calendar) quarter after effectiveness. IDA will provide further guidance to
improve and bring these to a level acceptable to the Bank.
During negotiations, the financial procedures of the Project Implementation Manual were discussed and
agreements reached regarding milestones for effectiveness.
Special Account: A special account for the project will be opened and maintained by the CNLS Permanent
Executive Secretariat in a reputable commercial bank. A program account will be opened in local currency
in the same commercial bank. Sub-program accounts may be opened for different implementing agencies.
The PIM requires each implementing agency from the private sector to open an account in a commercial
bank. Disbursements from this account will be made according to the provisions of the relevant contract.
ReRorting: Each implementing agency will submit quarterly financial reports to the CNLS Permanent
Executive Secretariat, which will consolidate all Project financial reports submitted by the implementing
agencies and will prepare the Project financial statements for auditing purposes.
4.7    Audit Arrangements
Annual financial statements of the project will be audited by independent extemal auditors under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. The Finance Section will establish the procedures required for implementing
agencies to submit periodic financial data for consolidation into total financial statements for the project
audits. Annual audit report including a management report and separate opinions on use of SOEs and
- 17 -



Special Accounts will be submitted to IDA within six months following the end of each financial year. The
auditors will provide opinions on the project financial statements, the special accounts and statements of
expenditures. They will be required to carry out a comprehensive review of the intemal control procedures
and provide a management report outlining any recommendations for their improvement. The Borrower has
agreed to submit a copy of the auditors' report to IDA not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal
year. TORs for the extemal auditors will include audit of sample of sub-projects to ensure the efficient use
of funds for intended purpose. Furthermore, the Borrower has agreed to submit not later than nine months
after effectiveness date an Interim Systems Audit in a form and substance acceptable to IDA. This interim
report will enable the Borrower and IDA to assess the adequacy of the system and to carry-out necessary
actions to ensure the rapid flow of funds to beneficiaries and satisfactory transparent management
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
See: (i) Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa Region Project Appraisal Document (report
no.20727 AFR), paragraphs 67-69 and (ii) the Bank's document untitled "Intensifying Action against
HIVIAIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development Crisis" as to the reasons for selecting the MAP
approach.
Three altematives to the proposed MAOP were considered.
*   The first was to supplement the work done on HIV/AIDS under the ongoing Second Health and
Population Project. This was not felt to be the most effective solution, given the multidimensional
nature of the HIV/AIDS problem. Earlier experience demonstrated the difficulties of one
line-ministry being responsible for a project with a multisectoral mandate.
*   The second alternative considered was simply adding the HIV/AIDS interventions to the
Community Development Fund Project (CDF), which provides funds to communities in a flexible
and rapid manner. This option was rejected because of the already high demands placed on the
CDF project and its coordination unit. This would also not support public and private partnership.
*   The third altemative was to prepare a separate "Orphans" integration and education project. The
country team decided that the same objectives could be achieved through merging this activity with
the national MSHAP. There will be some savings in preparation time and administrative costs,
since it is no longer necessary to set up separate procurement and financial management groups.
Moreover, merger of the orphans project into the national MSHAP may offer greater potential for
mobilization of funds to support the orphans.
- 18 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
.(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health, population and nutrition  Burundi Health and Population    S            S
II
Community-driven development     Burundi Social Action II         S             S
Emergency support to key imports  Burundi Emergency Economic       S            S
Reconstruction
Civil works and employment generation Burundi Public Works         S            S
Other development agencies
UNICEF (US$600,000)              IEC; Prevention of MCT
UNAIDS (US$171,622)               Support to GLIA; HIV/AIDS
control activities among the
military; VCT among women
15-39; Management of
Tuberculosis; Capacity building
of PNLS
UNDP (US$550,000)                Home care for PLWHA; Legal
protection of PLWHA;
Capacity building
Belgium (BEF 6,495,000)          Management of STIs; Support
to prevention of MCT
France (FF1,500,000)              Support to Laboratories;
Support to basic research on
HIV/AIDS through CEFORMI
UNESCO                            Support to HIV/AIDS control
among the military
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The consultations that led to the development of the Burundi HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
identified flaws in efforts previously made by the country to combat HIV/AIDS. These flaws are addressed
in the design of the Project. In addition, a number of lessons have already been culled from the
implementation of on-going MAP projects. In particular, lessons were taken from the US$500 million
Multi-Country Program for Africa Progress Review Mission Report for FY01 and were shared with the
Government and partners. Lessons have also been drawn from regional experience, particularly from
countries with successful experiences, such as Uganda and Senegal (Annex 13).
- 19-



The following key lessons from MAP I were incorporated in the project design:
a) MAP projects tend to lose momentum after Board approval. In Burundi, the Japanese PHRD Grant
and the IDA-financed Second Health and Population Project have been used to encourage government
agencies, NGOs, and local associations to prepare proposals for financing under the Fund. Intense
consultations have ensured that Burundi remains in the driver's seat throughout project preparation even
when the option meant slowing down the process. To prevent any bottleneck in implementation once the
project becomes effective, key consultants for the CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat have been
recruited. In addition, the Project Implementation Manual was drafted during project preparation and
finalized during negotiations.
b) MAP implementation is more successful in countries where the National EIV/AIDS body has a
"coordinating" role rather than a "control" role. In Burundi, the CNLS is responsible for developing
and refining the National Strategic Plan and setting national priorities. Thus it guides the strategic
orientation of all HIV/AIDS partner prevention projects and its Permanent Executive Committee will only
approve exceptionally larger projects (i.e. equivalent to or more than US$100,000). The CNLS, established
by Presidential Decree, includes representatives of civil society including community-based associations,
NGOs, and the private sector.
c) Lessons from the MAP highlight the importance of contracting out financial management of project
activities to ensure: (i) rapid disbursement and handling of a large volume of transactions by an experienced
agency; (ii) enhanced transparency; (iii) minimal establishment of new structures to avoid duplication; (iv)
clear contractual obligations and performance monitoring; (v) knowledge transfer to the implementing
agency during the contract period; and (vi) cost efficiency in the agencies undertaking mandated functions,
such as financial management and audits. Burundi agreed to contract financial management outside the
civil service. To that effect, the country has opted for the recruitment of a team of consultants to carry out
the financial management of the project, through a competitive process based on performance criteria
(included in the Terms of Reference) which will also serve in the evaluation of the team in charge of
financial management The CNLS will use performance-based contracting to ensure maximum efficiency.
d) The MAP approach requires close partnership in supervision of projects. In Burundi, several agencies
are involved in HIV/AIDS control activities. A supervision plan has been prepared and was finalized
during negotiations. It will ensure that all partners continue to be actively involved and responsible for
certain areas of supervision on a regular basis.
Key lessons from Burundi and other countries are outlined below:
a) Importance of political leadership and commitment. The experience of Uganda and Senegal
demonstrates that political leadership and commitment are necessary to mobilize national and donor
resources and ensure successful program to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemics. For this reason, a key element
of the project will be the CNLS that the Burundi Government has established under the Office of the
President to serve as a forum for high level authorities. The project will encourage high level officials as
well as religious and opinion leaders to express their commitment in speeches and in writing.
b) Need for a multi-sectoral approach. The experience of Burundi and other countries is that health
interventions alone cannot slow the spread of HIV/AIDS. The Ministry of Health will continue to play an
important role, especially for policy development, technical assistance, treatment of opportunistic diseases
- 20 -



and STIs, management of anti-retroviral therapies to limit mother-to-child transmission, and screening of
blood transfusions. However, the Project will also attack HIV/AIDS on many other fronts by marshalling
all sectors of activity and actors. To establish broad commitment, the project was designed by a
multi-sectoral team. Ministries as well as representatives in the private sector and civil society of all sectors
have been involved in the development of their specific AIDS control strategies. The first component of this
project targets specifically these partners in developing sector strategies and operational plans that will lead
to the financing of activities as part of a larger country strategy. The Burundi Program, like those of
Uganda and Senegal, is also multi-sectoral in that it addresses a wide range of AIDS factors and
consequences. The Project will fund special programs for vulnerable groups, such as soldiers, youth,
commercial sex workers, long distance truckers, displaced people and female heads of household. A special
orphans support project will be implemented as a pilot prior to extending such support country-wide.
c) Need for community participation. A further lesson from other projects is the need to engage local
communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Evaluation of various IEC efforts in Burundi as in other
African countries indicates that efforts have generally been made in developing one-way "information"
rather than two-way "communication". This approach has failed to generate behavioral change as
representatives of the beneficiaries were not involved in the design of messages. In Burundi, an earlier
project was supported by the IDA co-financed Second Social Action Project (credit no.3287) and by the
IFAD. With this support, the populations of nearly all the communes in the country have been consulted
through public meetings and have elected community development committees which choose investments
and participate in their execution. An important lesson of this Project is that, in a country experiencing civil
strife where insecurity is rampant, a demand-driven project at the local level can still be implemented and
build up community solidarity. Another lesson is that in the recruitment of staff working directly with
communities, it is important to select individuals with the right qualifications and experience, who are not
politically motivated, who have the appropriate personal characteristics to be effective leaders, and who are
dedicated and courageous enough to be willing to work in the field despite the insecurity. The proposed
project has been designed with the view to build on the Social Action Projects. The PIM for Project
implementation has taken account of the experience from these projects, as well as from other community
development projects supported by other donors in Burundi.
d) Need for building the capacity of implementing agencies. Based on prior experience, greater priority
needs to be given to enhancing the capacity of institutions in Project coordination, procurement, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation. The Burundi Project will finance qualifying applications for
capacity building from both the public and private sectors, and at the central, regional, and community
levels.
e) Importance of monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation of project activities are
important for assessing the progress and impact of interventions as well as identifying corrective measures
in the course of implementation. The Burundian Ministry of Health has operated a sentinel surveillance
system since 1999 to detect HIV and STIs. The Second Health and Population Project supports training
and materials for this system. To ensure adequate monitoring and evaluation of the project performances,
the Project will finance consultants who will be contracted to ensure that project activities are adequately
monitored and impact carefully evaluated, and that pilots tested receive the necessary follow-up.
f) Need for incorporating indigenous knowledge and practices. A further lesson is that indigenous
knowledge and practices can complement the fight against HIV/AIDS. In Mozambique, traditional
knowledge workers (healers) were able to increase awareness in psychologically and socially sensitive areas
such as sexuality, and to achieve a higher impact and a lower cost than more traditional IEC campaigns.
In Tanzania, the integration of local healers in AIDS prevention and mitigation strategies increased the
- 21 -



effectiveness of the approach and access for poorer families. Along similar lines, the Bank is currently
piloting the use of traditional channels of communication to deliver culturally congruent messages in
prevention of HIV/AIDS in West Africa. Local practices of looking after HIV/AIDS orphans in the
community among foster parents, grandparents, or other relatives, have also been used successfully in
Uganda, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Zambia to cater for orphans without separating them from their
communities. In this regard, the Burundi Project encourages access to and use of appropriate indigenous
knowledge and practices that have been shown to work in the fight against HIVIAIDS.
g) Need for stakeholder and donor collaboration. The project was prepared in close consultation with the
UNAIDS theme group and bilateral donor agencies as well as civil society. In addition, the UNAIDS theme
group is spearheading the production of an Inter-Agency Program to support the government in its fight
against HIV/AIDS, of which this project will form part. The development of this document was undertaken
by a diverse working group that meets regularly and includes representatives from NGOs and civil society.
The World Bank Office in Bujumbura played a critical role in the preparation of the project and made
commendable efforts to ensure stakeholder participation and donor collaboration. The project will build on
the existing collaboration between public and private sectors for the provision of social services.
h) Assessment of NGO capacity. Since NGOs and local associations will act as implementing agencies,
an assessment of their capacity was undertaken under the PHRD to determine what types of capacity
building would be required for these entities, whether organizational, administrative, financial or technical.
This assessment is the basis for the types of capacity building activities that will be financed under
Component 4 of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The gravity of the epidemic drives commitment as the Burundi is one of the hardest hit countries. The
country's leadership fully acknowledges that the political as well as the economic imperatives for faster
growth will not be realized if the HIV/AIDS situation does not improve. Therefore, the Government of
Burundi has committed itself to the struggle against HIV/AIDS epidemic: the President of the country,
together with many high level government officials have expressed their commitment in speeches and in
writing. Furthermore, the Government established the National AIDS Commission and the Ministry in
charge of the fight against HIV/AIDS and placed it under the Office of the President to demonstrate his
commitment and facilitate the coordination of the multi-sectoral attack on HIV/AIDS. The broader
commitment is evident in the Extended HIV/AIDS Theme Group which includes representatives of NGOs,
bilateral and multilateral donors, and national government representatives. In March 2001, the Government
of Burundi sent a high ranking delegation to Washington specifically to make a formal request to the World
Bank for assistance in its efforts to control HIV/AIDS within the MAP framework. The Government has
demonstrated its commitment through actions in the field, specifically, IEC, blood bank screening,
establishment of facilities for prevention of mother to child transmission. Govermnent has taken measures
to incorporate good medical waste management under the Project which should further minimize channels
for HIV/AIDS infection.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA 's leveragedfunding Under the umbrella of UNAIDS, many donors have expressed their willingness
to support the government's efforts to step up efforts to combat HIV/AIDS. However, no donor alone is
able to mobilize the amount of resources necessary to finance the government's National HIV/AIDS
Strategic Plan 2002-2006. IDA's support to the NSP is leveraged by the ongoing portfolio, including the
Second Health Sector Support project, the Second Social Action Project, Emergency Economic
Reconstruction Project, the approved PHRD Grant for this project, and the allocation of HIPC resources.
- 22 -



The Bank's involvement has helped Burundi address strategic choices and incorporate equity and gender
issues which would not otherwise be dealt with in bilateral operations. The Bank's involvement has
facilitated dialogue and decisions on institutional issues, procurement arrangements and more transparent
financial management issues. World-wide experience was brought in the preparation work.
Cross country experience: The Bank is the largest financier of HIV/AIDS and STI control projects and
contributes its experience in the design, implementation and evaluation of these programs. Through its
regional AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica), the Bank is well-positioned to provide Burundi
with regional and intemational experiences and lessons learned. Moreover, through its involvement in
various sectors in Burundi and its experience with supporting decentralized, community-based projects,
such as the social fund projects and the two community nutrition projects, IDA is well placed to assist the
Govenmment in undertaking the national effort to fight HIV/AIDS in a truly multisectoral and
community-oriented manner.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Econoniic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS has been carried out under the umbrella project (See annex 4
of the Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Programn for the Africa
Region-Report no. 20727 AFR, paragraphs 76-78). The analysis includes an overall assessment of the
impact of HIV/AIDS on economic development and poverty and showed that a reduction in AIDS-related
deaths would likely increase growth of GDP.
Under the mixed public-private category, services for combatting HIV/AIDS can be considered as a
targeted health problem (merit goods) because most national leaders and intemational experts have
accepted its prevention and mitigation as strongly desirable. HIV/AIDS being not just a health issue but a
development issue further justifies public sector's involvement. Burundi with 12 percent HIV/AIDS
prevalence rate for adults is amongst the high prevalence rate countries. The development impact of AIDS,
in countries with over 10 percent adult prevalence rates is becoming evident:
* Demographic impact: In addition to the expected decline in life expectancy at birth (from 48.2 in 1990
to 39.3 in 2010), the demographic structure is changing profoundly. An increasing proportion of youth
is responsible for or is taking over social and economic institutions.
* Macroeconomic impact: reduction in the growth of GDP per capita, overall reduction in the size of the
economy (17 percent by 2010 for South Africa) and reduction in the HDI (by 6 percent in Namibia by
2006).
* Household impact: decline in household income; fall in household consumption; deteriorating
malnutrition situation
* Rural/ Agriculture sector: reduction in agricultural production; increasing number of orphan or women
headed farn households; declining revenues in commercial agriculture; food insecurity
* Business sector: increasing medical costs due to AIDS related sickness; increasing cost of replacement
as percent of wage bills, production cost and profits
*   Education sector AIDS is becoming a leading cause of school teachers' death; increasing education
sectors' budget on teachers' training; increasing number of school age youth are not attending schools;
increasing proportion of households are not able to afford children's' school
- 23 -



*   Health sector: increasing percent of hospital beds occupied by AIDS related sickness; increasing AIDS
related costs in public health (health sector) budget jeopardizing health sector's ability to deliver heaith
services; acute shortage of health care professionals
With the multisectoral approach, the program will facilitate mobilization of all sectors in HIV/AIDS
prevention, care, mitigation and vulnerability reduction activities.
Program's interventions, if effectively implemented, would reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence rates among the
vulnerable and high-risk groups, and would also reduce overall spread of infection. These interventions
will combine to avert new HIV infection. Assuming 12 percent to 16 percent prevalence rate among adults
without the project for the next five years, the program's long-term strategy to contain the prevalence rate
at 12 percent will avert about 0(.15 million new infections (over 700,000 new infections in five years if
seroprevalence is reduced to 10 percent). Consequently, there will be cost savings due to decreased future
needs for treatment, care and support.
At 2002 prices, this program's cost is less than US$1.5 per person per year. If the prevalence rate
increases to 20 percent, even the budgetary cost of a national HIV/AIDS program could be 3 percent of
GDP (more than 5 percent of GDP including the cost of anti retroviral therapy). In other words, the cost of
inaction could be extremely high.
International experience suggests that reduction in HIV prevalence rate has a positive imnpact on economic
growth. UNAIDS estimates that the overall economic growth over the next decade in Burundi is likely to
be 0.3 to 0.4 percentage points lower every year than it would have been without AIDS. Consequently, this
program's efforts in reducing the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate would help lessen Burundi's economic
decline. Benefits would far outweigh the costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
See paragraph 79 of the Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the
Africa region (Report No. 20727 AFR). Furthermore, with a portion of the resources directed at
community interventions, civil society organizations, and outsourcing, the fiscal impact of the program
should be manageable.
3. Technical:
Overall, the project has incorporated the best intemationally accepted practices for HIV/AIDS response as
defined in MAP and is consistent with UNAIDS guidance on HIV/AIDS in developing countries. These
international practices have been tailored to the Burundi-specific context and the Project is designed in such
a way as to allow for possible incorporation of new practices in the future, should evidence of their
effectiveness become available.
The conditional transfer programs, that will be used to help families and conmnunities cover the cost of
orphan education and support social welfare, have been shown in several Latin American countries (Brazil,
Mexico, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Ecuador) and sub-Sahara Africa (Tanzania) to be successful in: (a)
targeting the poor; (b) increasing school attendance and reducing school drop-outs, and (c) protecting the
structurally poor during economic crisis (i.e. providing them with an assured source of income which
- 24 -



smoothens income shocks, encouraging human capital investments, and preparing the next generation for
facing future shocks).
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Activities funded under the HIV/AIDS program will be implemented by various public institutions and a
wide range of non-governmental agencies. The capacity of these agencies is diverse. The Ministry of
Health, which has historically had the largest HIV/AIDS action plan, has good experience in implementing
AIDS control activities and should have little problem in scaling up its operations. Other key ministries,
notably, the Ministry of Information, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Youth Culture
and Sports, and the Ministry of Social Development and Women's Promotion have more limited experience
in HIV/AIDS related interventions. Their capacity for implementation will have to be significantly
reinforced by the Project through technical support and close supervision.
Communal development commnittees and NGOs will have a key role in promoting, reviewing, supporting
and monitoring local proposals. Some are already active under other ongoing projects, including BURSAP
II. They have demonstrated a capacity to identify projects and mobilize participation of local communities.
An institutional assessment has shown that the capacity of provincial, communal and local HIV/AIDS
committees is good enough to ensure speedy implementation from project launch. In addition, the project
lays out concrete steps to further strengthen the capacity of community-based organizations. Their capacity
for monitoring project implementation will be reinforced. A Project component supported by DFID, the
British bilateral aid agency, will provide additional support in building the capacity within local NGOs and
community organizations for an enhanced community response. It will reinforce the capacity of these
organizations to absorb and utilize funds effectively. Civil society organizations will be encouraged to work
in partnership with such well established organizations, which have the capacity to manage substantial
amounts of development resources to acceptable standards.
4.2 Project management:
Overall coordination responsibilities will lie with the CNLS presided over by the President of Burundi. The
CNLS, which is directly under the Office of the President, is well placed for coordinating the national effort
to fight HIV/AIDS through a multi-sectoral approach. It has representatives from implementing agencies,
who through their previous experience, will help guide the policy and coordination functions of the
Commission. The project will finance capacity building for CNLS organs to enable efficient coordination
of HIV/AIDS activities in the country.
Day-to-day implementation coordination will be carried out by the CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat
reporting directly to the CNLS Executive Committee. The CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat is
staffed with consultants recruited through competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank. Their tenure will
be based on agreed performance-based contracts. The key staff of the CNLS Permanent Executive
Secretariat were selected and hired on these terms during project preparation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement activities will be implemented by a large number of agencies (local NGO, Community
organizations, in line ministries) of which only of a few number has adequate experience and capacity in
procurement as revealed by the procurement assessment conducted in September 2001. To ensure that
procurement activities will be carried out efficiently and according to Bank procedures:
- 25 -



*   The CNLS PES has been staffed with a senior procurement specialist, experienced in IDA projects
(recruited in August 2001 through a competitive process) who will provide guidance and support to the
various agencies involved and develop and implement a training program to strengthen their
procurement capacity to be agreed upon during negotiations;
*   The CNLS PES will carry out the preparation and processing of large and complex procurement
packages;
*   Simplified procurement procedures will be used as much as possible by local NGOs and community
organizations; and
*   The Project Implementation Manual includes a module on procurement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The key financial staff have become well familiar with the project operations, are closely involved in the
design of the intemal procedures being established. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has been
prepared. The first section of the PIM deals with project implementation and the second section with
Finance, Administration and Accounting. The Finance Manager and the Accountant have also begun to
address the question of accounting system and acquisition of an appropriate accounting software. With the
above developments, it is expected that the project will have adequate financial management systems and
procedures in place by the time of project effectiveness (currently scheduled for May 2002). Finalization
of the Financial, Administrative and Accounting section of the PIM will be a condition of effectiveness.
With the high number and diversity of implementing agencies involved, financial management of this
project will require close supervision, especially with regard to coordination, in particular at the start of the
project's life.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The major issue in this project will be the proper collection, disposal and management of medical waste.
Diagnosis of medical conditions, care of people infected with HIV/AIDS or other sexually transmitted
diseases will require the use of reagents, needles, gloves, drugs, and other pharmaceutical supplies.
Inappropriate handling and disposal of medical waste and inadequate management of the respective
disposal sites in urban and peri-urban areas, where domestic and medical waste may be mixed, and where
scavenging is a livelihood, is likely to have negative environmental and social impacts. The Borrower has
undertaken a study on Medical Waste Management in accordance with WHO guidelines on disposal of
medical waste. The preliminary report of which has been submitted by the consultant for why discussion in
country by key stakeholders. A revised version of this report would be submitted to IDA for comments
prior to effectiveness. The Project Implementation Manual incorporates WHO guidelines on the disposal
of medical waste which form the framework for the proposed plan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP for the proposed project consists of a Medical Waste Management Plan which:
(a)    Assesses Burundi's legal framework pertaining to medical waste management and treatment as
well as the need for additional regulatory requirements;
(b)    Assesses alternative technologies and facility sizes for treatment and destruction;
(c)    Analyzes available information on existing disposal sites;
(d)    Assesses the potential of the private sector as service provider, as well as public-private
- 26 -



partnerships and cost recovery; and
(e)    Prepares a training needs assessment for municipal workers and managers, MOH staff, scavenging
families and the general public are directed at building a national consensus on the economic benefits of
good medical waste management.
The information and recommendations provided in the MWMP enable the project to address Burundi's
medical waste management issues in a holistic manner, thus focusing simultaneously on impacts on public
health and the environment as well as identifying training needs and technology, legal, financial, operational
and disposal requirements. The Bank reviewed the methodology and objectives of the assessment and the
preliminary report and was satisfied that an effective MWMP will result from the design.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 25, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The draft MWMP outlines public participation requirements and procedures. Furthermore, working in
conjunction with the relevant government institutions and municipal councils, the initial draft includes well
targeted Awareness Building Campaign Programs to concerned authorities, the general public, and more
specifically health care workers, municipal workers, dump site managers, incinerator operators (as
appropriate), nurses, scavengers, and street children. The proposed design for MWMP is being discussed
with the relevant authorities and the general public to ensure that their concerns are fully incorporated. The
final MWMP will specify implementation arrangements (MOH, municipal workers and managers, national
blood banks, health facilities and other Government regulated bodies). Implementation will build a
partnership needed to ensure that Government buys into the system and budgets for it at the end of the
Project to ensure sustainability.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The final MWMP will include a monitoring and evaluation plan along with specific responsibilities for
periodic reporting. These would be incorporated into the Project Execution Manual during Project Launch.
Awaiting receipt of the Plan, provision is made under the Project for the execution of the Plan of
approximately US$250,000 as additional funding is expected from other donors and private sector
contributors. The outcome of the recommendations will determine the final cost of the plan which will be
paid for from the Credit. Supervision of the Plan by ASPEN would cost approximately US$13,000.
- 27 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Key Social Issues: Some risks attached to the social context in Burundi remain important. They include the
following:
* Gender inequality is a reality which undermines women's ability to make decisions, control their
own sexuality and the right to protect themselves;
* Gender inequality is a factor in institutional arrangements, as reflected in the limited number of
women represented on local HIV/AIDS committees;
* Stigma attached to HIV/AIDS and STIs continues to be a difficult barrier to break;
* The culture, including religion does not lend itself easily to discuss openly and plan action to
combat HIV/AIDS;
* Couples do not discuss HIV/AIDS and STIs;
* There may be few incentives for HIV+ persons to inform their spouses of their status;
* During implementation, the National Strategic HIV/AIDS Plan may not give adequate priority to
targeting men to help them change their sexual behavior,
* Some socially marginalized groups are at a risk of not being targeted sufficiently for prevention
and care services (orphans, street children and other vulnerable children, and internally displaced
people, among whom promiscuity is salient);
*   Legal issues (e.g. with regard to widows and orphans), particularly regarding property rights and
inheritance which would require sustained attention beyond the framework of MAOP or any other
single project;
* Pervasive poverty forces people to concentrate on immediate survival needs and limits their ability
to focus on long term issues;
* Internal conflict and insecurity remain threats that exacerbate poverty in the country as a whole,
and make some areas inaccessible;
* Processes to reach and engage communities in accessing resources of the MAOP may be slow to
evolve.
Development Outcomes: The Project is expected to have a positive social impact by assisting and
empowering people and institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV epidemic. People living with
HIV/AIDS and their families will have an opportunity to receive better social support from their
communities, civil society organizations and the government. Families of people living with HIV/AIDS are
vulnerable to economic and human rights abuses in the absence of legislation and social norms that can
protect them. The Project will support production of legal statutes and enhance the development of
community norms that will protect people living with HIV/AIDS. The Project will involve key
stakeholders, including civil society organizations and people living with HIV/AIDS in the development of
such social protective measures.
- 28 -



Social Assessment: The GOB is committed to making the Burundi HIV/AIDS program sensitive to the
needs of vulnerable groups including children, women and young people. It has commissioned a series of
assessments for better understanding of the knowledge, attitudes and obstacles to behavioral change that
have the greatest influence on the progression of HIV/AIDS in Burundi. An assessment focused on the
population 15 years and older has been completed (Enquete socio-comportementale sur l 'infection par le
VIHISIDA au Burundi). Additional assessments will be focusing on 10-14 year old and on populations
affected by civil strife. The studies commissioned by the GOB analyze knowledge, attitudes and behavior
in relation to HIV/AIDS across the country (KAP). Nine provinces took part in the general survey or
participated in one of the 38 focus-group discussions, which involved more than 2000 persons including
people representing groups of especially high risk. The results will inform the National HIV/AIDS
Strategy according to its findings and recommendations.
The social assessment was expanded to include three studies of barriers and opportunities, namely (i) a
study of issues of care and vulnerability of orphans to ensure provision of better care to the underprivileged
children; (ii) a study on children under 10 years old to suggest strategies for reducing the negative impact of
HIV/AIDS and the risk of infection for this age group; and (iii) a study on gender to identify how actions
can be more specifically tailored to take account of gender in preventing and mitigating the effects of
HIV/AIDS. The last two studies will focus on knowledge, attitudes and behavior related to HIV/AIDS.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project was developed on the basis of the national strategic plan to fight HIV/AIDS over the
2002-2006 period. The GOB launched the preparation of plan in September 2000 by appointing a task
force. The task force consulted widely with stakeholders, including representatives of the youth and people
living with AIDS. The preliminary document prepared following these consultations was presented to open
meetings in various cities. After modification, it received the approval successively of the UNAIDS
thematic group and the CNLS. Consultation with key government, non-government, international
stakeholders, and groups of people living with HIV/AIDS, continued during the preparation of the project
and will continue during the implementation of the Project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations have been consulted during project preparation and contributed
to the project design. They were represented in the high ranling delegation that visited Washington in
March 2001 to make a formal request to the World Bank for assistance in Burundi's efforts to control
HIV/AIDS. They are also represented in the CNLS. In addition, civil society organizations will execute a
significant part of the project, supporting government agencies and community-led initiatives. They will
also be consulted in the annual project reviews, in the mid-term reviews and during the post-evaluation of
the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
CNLS integrates representatives from different Government agencies at both central and local levels, from
civil society, from religious groups, from the youth, women groups, and from people living with
HIV/AHDS. Provincial HIV/AIDS committees include 15 members of which 5 are women. They will be
responsible promoting activities to be funded under the program and for monitoring implementation
progress. The project supports the development of relevant legal and social initiatives to protect the most
vulnerable i.e. women, young people (specially adolescent girls) and people living with HIV/AIDS.
Procurement and disbursement arrangements have taken adequate precautions to streamline the flow of
- 29 -



funds to communities. Annual action Plans are reviewed and approved by CNLS ahead of time and
requisite resources will be channelled accordingly without subjecting them to the standard Government
budget management bureaucratic procedures. Involvement of beneficiary communities in implementation
will ensure transparency.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project indicators are all inherently aimed at monitoring social impact and social development
outcomes. The key indicators focus on quality of life and social inclusion. The key stakeholders are
represented in the project implementing structure and will participate in project evaluation and provide user
feedback to management.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
i-4 --                -. p=6li 0.W,';. ... rcyz:  i -;,,,;       ApplilcObiiity' 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       O Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
To comply with OP 4.01, a finalized medical waste management plan will be submitted to IDA for review
by Effectiveness.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustained support to the Project is demonstrated by the firm leadership of the central government and the
broad participation of faith-based organizations, NGOs, community organizations and organizations of
people living with AIDS in the development of the Project. Support among the general public is
strengthening because of the damage inflicted by AIDS on so many families and public education on the
program will heighten increased national support.
The Project would contribute to institutional sustainability through investments in the capacity of its
executing agencies, both in the public and private sector. In particular, the Project would support extensive
training of professionals that will deliver medical, educational, and social support services in relation to the
struggle against HIV/AIDS. Furthermore, investments undertaken as part of the IDA-supported Second
Health & Population Project support strengthening of institutions and of health services and the supplement
to the credit will support additional investment.
Financial sustainability of the Project, beyond the period of Project implementation, will depend on the
continued and additional support from multilateral and bilateral donors. The expectation of sustained
- 30 -



support is justified by the increasing understanding by donors of the consequences of the epidemic for the
region and by the increases in their funding to date.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
F .om  1. .:Risk                 RiskRating    ,       Rsk Mitiga.to Me,asur.e
From outputs to Objective
The capacity of the health care system to  H        The World Bank will continue to strengthen the
deliver basic services fails to improve over        basic health care system through the Second
time.                                               Health & Population Project and through a
supplement to that Project. Moreover, the Bank
will seek agreement with the Government,
through the PRSP discussions, for greater
government fiscal support for the health system.
The Bank will back up this support through
emergency and reconstruction lending.
The use of condoms is not socially         S        Religious and traditional leaders report that they
acceptable and is opposed by key leaders            will accept the use condoms by high risk groups
(including religious and traditional                and IEC will be targeted at these groups.
leaders).
Voluntary testing is not carried out with  M        The CNLS Pernanent Executive Secretariat and
informed consent and confidentiality of             the Ministry of Health, as well as Bank
client information is not maintained.               supervision missions will maintain standards of
informed consent and confidentiality.
From Components to Outputs
The civil conflict intensifies, and the peace  S    The Bank program in Burundi maintains
process stalls.                                     pro-active support for the peace process through
interventions that benefit all groups of the
population and forge collaboration among
communities.
Population movements stabilize or         H         The Bank supports the peace process in
increase                                            neighboring countries as well as in Burundi.
The central government intervenes in the  M         The central government makes policy decisions
day to day execution of the Project and in          through participation in the governing council of
the ordinary operation of the CNLS PES.             the project (CNLS). Moreover, Bank
supervision of vetting of sub-projects and
procurement by the PES should reduce
inappropriate interference.
Government institutions do not continue to  N       NGOs are well represented on the Project's
view communities and civil society                  policy-making body, the CNLS.
organizations as partners in the fight
against HIV/AIDS.               .
- 31 -



NGOs do not significantly extend their    M         The Project will support investments in the
networks.                                           capacity of NGOs.
Communities do not accept mechanisms      N         Simplified procedures will be used to promote
for participation in the struggle against           community participation.
HIV/AIDS.
National and local leaders are not        N         The project will intensify information on the
involved and do not support IEC.                    effects of HIV/AIDS in order to persuade
leaders to accept IEC targeted at high risk
groups.
Financial Management arrangement may      M         The CNLS (through its Coordination Bureau
be insufficient to ensure rapid and                 and PES) and the Bank will monitor the flow of
appropriate implementation                          funds closely from project launch. Government
will submit an interim systems audit to the Bank
no later than 9 months after the effectiveness
date with proposals for improvement if system
is found inadequate.
Coordination among implementing            S        The Project design has mitigated this risk
agencies may be inadequate to ensure               through the establishment of an independent
smooth implementation                               implementation team charged with executing
annual action plans without recourse to the
Administration bureaucratic procedures. The
CNLS has programmed quarterly meetings to
deal with problems before these become
bottlenecks.
Overall Risk Rating                       H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 32 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The most controversial aspect concerns the inequity in delivery of services that follows from the limits to
available financing. A related issue is the development of a policy to provide appropriate treatment, care
and support to women utilizing services for the prevention of MCT and to introduce ART under the
project. During negotiations, the Bank spelled out conditions to be met if an ART program is to be financed
under the project, particularly technical and equity issues.
Furthermore, constrained financing limits support services that the Project can provide to people living with
AIDS and to their families and to the survivors of AIDS victims. It may not even prove possible to support
all of the most vulnerable groups. For instance, the orphans pilot may not be able to assist all of the
highest priority group: children under 16 that have lost both parents and are not receiving support from an
adult.
Another issue which may be controversial with Burundi is the breaking taboos, in rural areas, against
discussion of sexual issues as part of the IEC camnpaigns.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Borrower has opened the Project Account and the Initial Deposit has been deposited;
* The Borrower has adopted: (i) an accounting and financial management system for the Project; (ii) the
Project Implementation Manual; (iii) CNLS Procedures Manual (Financial, Administrative and
Accounting Manual); and (iv) a procurement plan for the first Project Year,
*   A final draft Medical Waste Management Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
*   MASPF (Ministry of Social Action), MDN (Ministry of National Defense), MSP (Ministry of Public
Health) and MPVS (Ministry in charge of the fight against HIV/AIDS have presented Action Plans to
fight against HIV/AIDS, in form and substance acceptable to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenants:
*   No later than three months after Effectiveness Date, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
final Medical Waste Management Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
*   No later than 9 months after Effectiveness Date, the Borrower shall carry out an interim systems audit
acceptable to the Association;
*   No later than June 30, 2004, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a mid-termn
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project;
*   No later than March 31, 2003, and thereafter no later than March 31 each year, the Borrower furnish
to the Association an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performned under the Project.
- 33 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
n] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
2 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The following items are referred to Section G "Main Credit Conditions" above. These materials were
reviewed during negotiations and were found to be of good technical quality although a number of tasks
await completion. It was agreed that the following tasks would be finalized before effectiveness.
*   The section of the PIM on Finance and Accounting will be formally adopted by the CNLS in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA;
*   An accounting and financial management system for the Project will be put in place for the project in a
form and substance satisfactory to IDA;
*   The diagnostic phase of the medical waste management study will be completed and the report
transmitted to IDA.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
The proposed project is not fully compliant with the Guidelines for Category B environmental
classification. The project was reclassified as B just prior to appraisal to provide assurances for a proper
management of medical waste. The Borrower has submitted an initial draft to the Bank. Extensive
discussions with stakeholders in all regions that participated in the preparation of the Project are on-going
and a final draft will be submitted to IDA before effectiveness. The Project Implementation Manual will
incorporate procedures for implementing this plan during project launch.
nga Miatudila                        Adams                   Emmanuel bi
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
rji erarqch   ,fO   ies c  .        I,. in aorg;   - F j   'G..PFa B                         !   tih nsd  S
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustaining economic growth  * Prevent GDP from declining Country economic data   *    Overall political and
through, among others, a   further than the 1999 level of                       security situation continues to
stabilization of the       US$ 0.7 billion.                                     improve.
HIV/AIDS prevalence rate   * The long-term objective,  HIS
through a multi-sectoral   over a period that may surpass                        *    The flow of donor
approach.                  the duration of the Program,                          assistance continues to
is to hold the prevalence rate                       improve.
to its current rate of 12% and
then to beat it back
downward.
- 35 -



Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
* Slow the spread of      * % of adults who report    DHS survey             * The civil conflict does not
HIV/AIDS in the general   using a condom during                              intensify and the peace
population; and           their last contact with a                          process continues.
non-regular partner.                             * Population movements
* % of girls 15 years old or  DHS Survey              stabilize or decline.
younger who report being                         * Refugees and displaced
sexually active.                                   people are resettled
* % of women who test       HIS                       voluntarily.
positive for syphillis                           * The price of
during prenatal                                     anti-retroviral drugs
consultations                                       continues to decline.
* Mitigate the danage that  * % of people living with  Client Satisfaction Survey
HIV/AIDS causes to        HIV/AIDS who are
individuals and families  satisfied with support
received from the
Program.
* % of orphans, placed   MOE or MIS
with families who
advance from one grade
of primary school to the
next.
- 36 -



__  _ __  _ __ _ __  _ _ .  ^  ,.  ,. *V  lM*'4t                                            .
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-   -  -       Yt              --f
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Components I & 2:                                                                * The capacity of the health
(Prevention)                * % of ministries which                                care system to deliver
have incorporated          Behavioral survey         basic services improves
HIV/AIDS prevention in                               over time;
their work plans and                               * The use of condoms is
budget                                               socially acceptable and is
* Citizens have knowledge  * % of respondents with     HIS                        not opposed by key
and means to change       correct knowledge of                                  leaders (including
behavior                   HIV/AIDS;                                            religious and traditional
* # of condoms distributed   HIS                       leaders); and
* HIV testing promoted    * # of people voluntarily                             * Voluntary testing is
and provided on a         tested for HIV/AIDS;                                 carried out with informed
voluntary basis;                                                               consent and
* Mother-child            * % of HIV positive                                     confidentiality of client
transmission of HIV        pregnant women that                                 information is
reduced through           have utilized PMTCT                                   maintained.
anti-retroviral therapy;  services;                  HIS
* % of health facilities
* Blood transfusions are     which have improved
safe;                     blood safety and safe
injection practices;
* # of people examined and
* STIs are detected and     tested for STIs;
treated;                * % of personnel trained to
provide comprehensive
care of STIs and
opportunistic infections.
Components I & 2:
(Mitieation)
* People living with HIV or  * # of people living with  Program's statistics
AIDS receive treatment    AIDS who have benefited     MIS
for opportunistic diseases,  from support from the
and psychological and     Program;
material support        * # of people with            HIS and MIS
HIV/AIDS treated for
opportunistic diseases;
* Families of people living  * # of people with         MIS
with AIDS receive         HIV/AIDS receiving
psychological & material  psychological support;
support to as well as   * # of people trained to      MIS
investments in skills     deliver services to people
training and              living with HIV/AIDS
revenue-generating        and to their families or
activities.               survivors;
- 37 -



Component 3: Orphans
A pilot is in place which
provides the following results:
* Orphans are placed their
extended families,      * # of orphans placed with  MIS
* Nutrition and income       families;
earning support is
provided to the host    * # of host families that    MIS
families, and             receive nutrition support
* subsidies provided for the  from project;
orphans' basic education.
* # of orphans attending     MIS and M&E
primary school.
Component 4: Cavacity
Building
* Sectoral strategies and  * % of sectors with         MIS
actions plans developed   adequate HIV/AIDS
and pilot activities      strategies
implemented with results
incorporated back into
sector strategies
Component 5: Proiect
coordination
* Project is implemented in  * Adequate disbursement   MIS
a timely and effective    ratio
manner
- 38 -



;Hgjerachyo,;cve         l c- -  Vn     dl_ , 6;.VtaiMsuiip,#ifl§
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
* Expanding Public Sector IDA: $US 9 million      Reports of the CNLS PES;  Communities accept
response to the crisis                          Epidemiological surveillance; mechanisms for participation
(IDA US$ 9 million).                            BHS                       in the struggle against
Reports of supervision    HIV/AIDS;
* Increasing participation  IDA: $US 13 million   missions;                 NGOs significantly extend
of grass-root                                   Annual Financial Audit; and  their networks; and
organizations and                               Mid-term review.          National and local leaders are
communities                                                               involved and support IEC.
IDA: $US 7 million
* Orphans Integration &
Education Pilot
IDA: $US 4 million
* Strengthening the
Program Strategic
Formulation and
Monitoring Capacity.
IDA: $US 3 million                                  Project design has mitigated
* Project coordination                                                      this risk through
* Financial                                                              establishment of independent
Management                                                            implementation team which
implements approved action
plans.
A computurized accounting
system would facilitate
accounting and financial
reporting.
NB: See indicator values in the table on page 3.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
The general objective of the Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project (the Project) is to
support implementation of Burundi's "Action Plan for the Struggle Against HIV/AIDSfor the period
2002-2006" (the Plan, see details in Annex 2A). As an integral part of the Plan, the Project aims at: (i)
slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS in the general population and (ii) mitigating the damage HIV/AIDS
causes to individuals, families and communities. The project will be carried out over a four-year period to
escalate the attack on HIV/AIDS. Given the multisectoral nature of the Burundi response against
HIV/AIDS, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of activities will be an important aspect of the Project.
The project will be implemented through five major components.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.30 million
Strengthening Public Sector Response to the Crisis
The purpose of this component is to support a major expansion of HIV/AIDS activities implemented by
government entities at central, intermediary, and peripheral levels. Under Burundi's National Program for
the Fight against HIV/AIDS (PNLS), all sectors are expected to develop and implement their specific
HPV/AIDS strategies. The project will accelerate this process, first, by supporting each sector to articulate
how HIV/AIDS control activities will be organized for the people working in that sector and for the general
population the sector serves (see Component 4 on capacity building). Second, after these plans have laid
out the principal actions and execution process, the Project will finance selected activities to help carry out
the strategies. Proposals for financing will first be endorsed by the sectors and then forwarded to CNLS for
formal approval. Activities will cover the full spectrum of prevention and mitigation interventions (details
in Annex 2A). Some of these may involve public sector contracting of service delivery to civil society
groups or associations. Third, this component will finance the implementation of the Medical Waste
Management Plan designed to eliminate channels of HIV/AIDS infection through current poor medical
waste disposal practices.
The component will finance among other things: (a) IEC equipment and supplies, as well as operating costs
to carry out meetings, festivals and other IEC activities; (b) condom distribution; (c) early detection and
treatment of STIs; (d) safe blood transfusions including donor recruitment; (e) promotion and provision of
HIV/AIDS testing on a voluntary basis; (f) control of mother-to-child transmission of HIV through
anti-retroviral therapy; (g) support to the formal and informal education sectors to carry messages about
HIV/AIDS; (h) counseling services, psychological and material support for people living with HIV or
AIDS, and for their families; (i) investmnent in skills training and revenue-generating activities; (j) reviewing
and as necessary, reforming relevant laws and regulations; and (k) preparing gender-responsive
sectors-specific H1V/AIDS communication plans in line ministries.
Project Component 2 - US$13.40 million
Increasing Civil Society Response
This component is designed to scale up existing AIDS control activities that are managed by grass-root
organizations and communities and adapted to local conditions. The component will also promote and
encourage initiatives of private sector enterprises to develop and implement prevention, care and support
-40 -



strategies designed for their employees and their families. Funds will be channeled directly through grants
to associations, religious organizations, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations to
cover a wide range of AIDS control activities. Government's and grants recipients' responsibilities will be
embodied in contractual agreements signed before works start Eligibility criteria, norms and standards for
implementing sub-projects under this grant mechanism are described in a specific module of the Project's
implementation manual.
The component will finance among other things: (a) IEC equipment and supplies, as well as operating costs
to carry out meetings, festivals and other EEC activities; (b) condom distribution; (c) awareness for early
detection and treatment of STIs; and safe blood transfusions; (d) promotion of HIV/AIDS testing on a
voluntary basis; (e) support to the formal and informal education sectors to carry messages about
HIV/AIDS; (f) counseling services, psychological and material support for people living with HIV or
AIDS, and for their families; (g) investment in skills training and revenue-generating activities; (h) home,
community-based and hospital care for AIDS patients; and (i) funeral and other social expenses.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.00 million
Orphans Integration and Education Pilot
The ultimate objective of this component is to limit the future erosion of human capital by making an
investment in the social integration and education of young orphans. The component will start on a modest
scale and is planned to generate results that will suggest how to design larger scale action (beyond the
financial limits of the current component) to address the orphans crisis that has emerged over the last
decade and is capable of extending over many years to come. The component aims at limiting risks to
highly vulnerable groups of orphans, in the short-term, by strengthening traditional family and community
systems to protect and absorb them. The risks in the long-term will be limited through investments in basic
education, vocational training, and nutrition. In other words, the strategic objective is to improve the basic
education, social integration, and nutrition of the riiost vulnerable groups of orphans toward the levels of
other children in the community.
The component's first intervention is the placement of orphans with their extended family, and when that is
not possible, with an unrelated family. The largest intervention is to subsidize costs of primary education
for orphans. To assist older, adolescent orphans, the component supports their training for market jobs in
the formal or informal sectors. The component will also strengthen the economic and nutritional well-being
of families who care for the orphans through small-scale income generating activities and investments to
supplement nutrition (such as gardening).
Orphans are defined, for the purpose of the component, as children up to the age of 16 who have lost one or
both parents. This definition was chosen to avoid stigmatizing orphans of HIM/AIDS. Based on this
definition, assistance will be targeted to the most highly vulnerable groups of orphans, in the following
order:
1. Orphans who have lost both parents and do not receive support from an adult, including orphans in
orphan-headed households;
2. Children separated from their father and their mother who live in refugee or displaced persons camps;
3. Orphans who have lost one parent and whose surviving parent is unable to provide any assistance;
4. Orphans who have lost both parents and live with very poor families.
All orphans among the most vulnerable groups would benefit from the component, regardless of the cause
- 41 -



of their condition. Orphans beneficiaries (that is, the priority targets for this component) will be identified
through the following procedures:
*   Children residing in their communes or origin: Orphans belonging to categories 1, 3 and 4 above
will be identified through a community census, using the methods applied by Children's Aid Direct
in the province of Bubanza. A contractor (NGO, church, etc.) will hold a meeting with the
population to identify and list qualifying orphans, and the contractor will also be responsible for
the validation and correction of the list.
*   Children residing outside their communes: Unaccompanied children in refugee camps (outside
Burundi) will be identified by the High Commissioner for Refugees and those living in displaced
persons camps (in Burundi) will be identified by the Ministry of Reinsertion and Reinstallation of
Displaced and Repatriated Persons. The refugees and displaced persons (orphans) so identified will
benefit from the component if their commune of origin is included in the geographic target of the
component. The cost of transporting the displaced orphans to their commune of origin will be
borne by the component.
The component will be implemented by combining and interrelating several interventions below, as
appropriate for the specific conditions of the geographic target area. The component will be coordinated,
supervised and monitored by the HIV/AIDS Unit of the Ministry for Social Action and Promotion of
Women. The component will be executed through a contractual relationship with agencies or registered
groups who will be selected according to criteria specified in the Project Implenmentation Manual (PIM) for
the MAOP. The CNLS PES is responsible for procurement and contracting with respect to these agencies.
The Ministry will select the geographic target areas for the component, according to criteria defined in the
PIM.
Sub-component one -family placement. The sub-component will finance placement of priority groups of
orphans into families rather than into institutions such as large orphanages. Moreover, orphans will be
placed, when possible, with a household that is part of their extended family. This policy is consistent with
advice of experts on child development and is also the lower cost option. Therefore, the component will not
support transit centers because of the risk that these would become permanent and low-quality orphanages
in the absence of a well-funded and functioning system for placing children.
*   Tracing (search for families). The sub-component will support the tracing of the extended
families of unaccompanied children now living in refugee camps in Tanzania, in displaced persons
camps in Burundi and unaccompanied "street children" living in the geographic target areas
(communes) of the component. It will then support the placement of children with their extended
families, or when that is not possible, with foster families. The component will give priority to
placement in families capable of paying school fees for the orphans.
*   Policy toward orphan-headed households. The sub-component will support orphans in
orphan-headed households through placement in families when the orphan-headed household is not
economically sustainable. Orphan-headed households sometimes seek to remain together so that
they can cultivate family land and live in the family hut. If the orphans derive a high fraction of
their nutrition from the land or through other family assets, the component will support the orphans
by building their ties with their extended families or with neighbors that can provide assistance.
-42 -



Sub-component two - primary education and vocational training. Most resources under this component
will fund education and training for orphans:
* Primary education scholarships. To this end, the sub-component finances primary education fees
(minervals), and also school uniforms, textbooks, notebooks, pens, and school bags for the most
vulnerable groups of primary school-aged orphans. The average cost of the subsidy is estimated at
slightly over 30,000 Burundi Francs per student per year, or about $US 38. The component finances
the above items only in cases where costs are not being met by other donors, or other projects including
other IDA-funded activities.
All orphans in the priority groups will receive the school subsidy, even if several are absorbed into a
single family. Considering the limited funds available, the component will not subsidize the school
costs of other children in the family of absorption. Revenue generating projects should help finance the
school fees of children and thereby avoid conflicts and jealousies between children.
To ensure adequate management and supervision of scholarships, funding for the scholarships would
be sent, through a contractual arrangement, to a local group, such as a church community, a mothers'
committee, or a community association. The local group would make payments to the school and would
verify attendance of the beneficiaries. The component would not pay cash subsidies directly to the
households, to avoid providing any incentive to absorb children for use as laborers.
* Vocational training. To assist older, adolescent orphans prepare for a productive adult life, the
component will support their training for market jobs in the formal and informal sectors in areas such
as agriculture, sewing, masonry, carpentry, bicycle repair, auto mechanics, etc. This intervention will
begin on a pilot basis with technical training institutions which already have documented success or
with training centers which have proven ability to take on training on an experimental basis. The
community meetings will identify qualifying orphans, focusing on orphan-headed households. The
component could also help organize adolescents who have graduated from skills training into
productive cooperatives to generate income and to sustain their livelihood.
Sub-component three - revenue generating activities. The sub-component will support families and
communities which care for orphans. Such support will include financing of small-scale revenue generating
activities, and activities that improve their food security.
* Gardening. The project will support the distribution of grants to families who take care of orphan
children. The grants will comprise vegetable seeds and gardening tools as a means of durably
strengthening the families' food security.
*   Revenue generating activities. The project will also support families and communities who take care
of orphans through revenue-generating micro-projects as a way of permanently improving their
capacity to pay the health and school fees of an additional child. As is the case for other investments in
this component, the revenue generating activities will be managed through a contractual arrangement to
a local group, in the fonn of a grant in order to start-up revenue-generating micro-projects to support
the beneficiary families. The micro-projects can be managed by individual families or family groups.
-43 -



Project Component 4 - US$4.00 million
Strengthening the Program's Strategic Formulation and Monitoring Capacity
This component is designed to reinforce the capacity of government agencies, civil society and the private
sector, and strengthen the capacity of local organizations and rural communities in the design and
implementation of demand-driven HIV/AIDS activities. The CNLS and its decentralized structures will
also provide technical, financial and material support to coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation
of the project. More specifically, the component will finance:
* national and international consultants to supply technical assistance and training to HIV/AIDS units of
the ministries, administration, enterprises, and civil society, nongovernmental and community based
personnel and organizations;
*   strengthening of the CNLS capacity of the CNLS to promote, coordinate, and manage HIV/AIDS
control activities performed by various sectors and agencies. Special attention will be given to allow the
CNLS to reinforce its ability in advocacy and awareness creation, decision-making processes,
moderation skills, and consensus seeking, training of trainers and technical support, situation
assessment, monitoring and evaluation.
*   training for members of the CNLS, including through their participation in intemational meetings and
study tours to leam from experience elsewhere. The training will include procurement, financial
management, program monitoring and evaluation; and methodologies for community participation;
*   articulation of sector strategies to combat HIV/AIDS. This sub-component will finance activities,
including training, for the designated sector focal points in order to improve their knowledge of
methods for projecting the potential impact of HIV/AIDS on their respective sectors and for designing
intervention strategies. This may imply contracting resource persons who can assist sectors to plan,
implement and monitor results of their HIV/AIDS control actions;
*   strengthening the capacity of civil society, nongovemmental and local associations. This will imply
training at the national, intermediary and local levels in project preparation, implementation,
monitoring and assessment of results. Part of this support will be allocated to offer incentives to
well-established NGOs to undertake initiatives that encourage the emergence of new organizations and
assist in building their technical and managerial skills.
*   technical training. This will be carried out by national and intemational consultants at national,
intermediary and local levels. This sub-component will address the training needs of a wide range of
professionals, including but not limited to physicians, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, paramedical
staff, communication specialists and social workers. To be eligible for consideration, proposals for
training must relate to specific organizational and institutional development goals. The technical
training will be financed in areas including but not limited to the following: personal and community
hygiene; prevention of HIV transmission through transfusion, injection or other healing procedures;
prevention of mother-to-child transmission; preventive and curative treatment of opportunistic
infections and care for people living with HIV; voluntary testing, counseling and socio-psychological
care of people infected or affected by HIV/AIDS; community mobilization; design and evaluation of
IEC materials. To reduce the stigma and discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS will also require a
- 44 -



comprehensive re-orientation and retraining of teachers and teacher educators. Emphasis will be placed
on learning by doing, and refresher courses will be organized on a periodic basis to facilitate exchange
of best practices.
Project Component 5 - US$3.00 million
Project Coordination
The objective of this component is to strengthen the CNLS's capacity to carry out its responsibilities for the
overall coordination of the Project. The CNLS will rely on its technical organ, the CNLS-PES, for: (a)
development of annual work programs and budget; (b) procurement and disbursement activities; (c)
monitoring and evaluation of the project; and (d) financial management of the project.
A detailed section on Procedures including a chapter on Financial Management has been developed to
ensure adequate management of the credit proceeds. The CNLS PES will be staffed by consultants at the
national and intermediary levels. Its Finance Section will be in charge of ensuring accounting and
management of the project funds. The Section will be responsible for management of Special Account,
ensuring that project expenditures are incurred in accordance with established procedures, and retention of
adequate documentation for verification by supervision missions and extemal auditors. The Section will
initially be staffed with a Finance Manager and an Accountant with adequate qualifications and experience
to undertake their respective tasks. Project coordination and IDA will monitor developments and increase
the staff as soon as this becomes necessary with the increase in volume and complexity of project
transactions. The Finance Section will commence submitting the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) beginning with the first full (calendar) quarter after effectiveness. Annual financial statements of
the project will be audited by independent external auditors and under terms of reference acceptable to the
IDA. The Finance Section will establish the procedures required for implementing agencies to submit
periodic financial data for consolidation into total financial statements for the project for audits. Annual
audit reports including a management report and separate opinions on use of SOEs and Special Account
will be submitted to IDA within six months following the end of each financial year. In addition, all
disbursements against expenditures for contracts with civil society organizations and the private sector
(most which will be made against SOEs) will be audited by financial and technical consultants employed by
the Burundi AIDS Commission and subject to random ex-post financial, physical, and technical review by
IDA missions.
To allow the CNLS to ensure adequate coordination of the project, the component will finance among other
things:
(a) equipment and operating costs to enable the CNLS and its PES to carry-out awareness creation
activities, coordinate, and supervise related tasks. The component provides the CNLS PES with
an appropriate accounting software capable of generating financial data and periodic reports
required by the CNLS and IDA.
(b) continuous epidemiological surveillance: This sub-component will include support to strengthen
the existing surveillance activities in support of efforts by the Ministry of Health to track STI and
HIV transmission rates;
(c) research: Support under this sub-component will include some funding for selected studies of: (i)
HIV/AIDS household impact and cost effectiveness of HIV/AIDS interventions and orphans and
vulnerable families' support; (ii) behavioral surveillance to gather information on peoples'
knowledge, attitudes and practices with regard to sex; and (iii) special epidemiological studies to
-45 -



monitor trend of prevalence and incidence of HIV infection and other STIs, to illustrate program
impacts in specific areas and populations. The project will generally not fund extensive
epidemiological research and second generation surveillance that combines biological and
behavioral data. The project may provide seed money to encourage universities, research
institutions, and other agencies to conduct research of this nature.
(d) contracts to specialized groups that will manage overall project monitoring and evaluation on
behalf of the CNLS. These contractors will collect, verify, enter and analyze monitoring and
evaluation data from each partner participating in the project and submit reports of aggregate
activities to the CNLS. The aim is to establish a mechanism for regular review which, coordinated
by the CNLS, will feed back into operations. The contractors will assess processes (e.g. the extent
to which work plans, technical support and financing structures are in place to deliver services)
and progress toward targets. The contractors will also evaluate the relevance, quantity and quality
of public sector and civil society services delivered. Particular attention will be given to the range
of interventions commissioned through grants and delivered through contracts to civil society and
private sector organizations. The contractors will alert the CNLS to issues requiring attention and
communicate good practices and achievements early and convincingly, in order to facilitate
continuous improvements in project design and implementation. The execution procedures for
monitoring and evaluation are described in the PIM. In addition to supporting technical assistance,
the component will finance the provision of equipment and materials required for implementing a
comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation.
-46 -



Annex 2A: Burundi: Action Plan for the Struggle Against HPV/AIDS for the Period 2002-2006
1. Introduction
Sub-Sarahan Africa is entering the 21st century greatly handicapped by the loss of substantial health gains
achieved in the last century. Because it kills adults and thus decimates the workforce, fractures families and
orphans millions, the AIDS epidemic has such a tremendous impact on the lives of the people and the
economy. Countries are forced to make a choice between health and several other vital investments for
development. Given this reality, the Government of Burundi and its partners are acting to prevent further
HIV infections and mitigate the impact on those who are already infected or affected by HIV.
2.     Current Situation and Issues
2.1.   Epidemiological Profile
In 1999, Burundi had an adult HlV prevalence of 11.32 percent up from less than I percent in 1980. At the
end of 1999, about 360,000 adults (in the 15-49 age group) and 19,000 children (under 15) were living
with HIV/AIDS. Women accounted for 55.8 percent of adult infections. In June 2000, the HIV
sero-prevalence rate among women attending prehatal care was 7.5 percent in rural areas and 18.6 in urban
areas. Currently, Burundi has more than 230,000 AIDS orphans. The number of deaths due to AIDS is
estimated to have stood between 11,000 and 39,000 in 1999 alone. HIV was first diagnosed in Burundi in
1983 and by 1987 the sero-prevalence rates had reached 11 percent in urban areas and 0.7 percent in rural
areas. The epidemic worsened, and ten years later, these rates stood at 18.5% in urban areas and 6% in
rural areas. In the year 2000, no less that 28,000 HIV test were carried out in 80 health facilities across the
country and about 15% of the tests were positive.
HIV infection is not evenly distributed among different groups. Women suffer disproportionately from
HIV/AIDS in much of Africa, in particular in Burundi, where 55.8% of adults living with HIV/AIDS are
women. The impact of the epidemic on children is particularly catastrophic. A massive generation of
orphans is emerging in the Central African Region from a combination of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the
breakdown of the public health system, and civil conflict. A UNICEF & ISTEEBU survey found that a
striking 19 percent of all children aged 0 to 14, or 558,000 children have lost at least one parent; about
77,000 children (2.6%) have lost both parents. There are no firm figures on the number of children
orphaned because of HIV/AIDS since it is hard to determine the cause of parents' death. A rough estimate
by the UNICEF and WHO places the figure between 160,000 and 230,000.
HIV/AIDS constitutes a major threat to Burundi's development. It affects all sectors of society and is
rapidly canceling the development gains made in the 1970s. HIV/AIDS has quickly become the leading
cause of mortality among adults. Moreover, HIV/AIDS is a major factor in the increase in infant mortality
rates from 110 per thousand live births in 1992 to 127 in 2000. On the basis of current trends, life
expectancy is expected to decline from 48.2 years in 1990 to 39.3 years in 2010. At present HIV/AIDS
patients occupy over 80 percent of hospital beds in Bujumbura at considerable cost to the health budget.
- 47 -



2.2.   Factors of rising prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Burundi
A constellation of factors contribute to the rising prevalence of HIV/AIDS among the general population in
Burundi. These include the following:
*   Inadequate knowledge and inappropriate attitude. Lack of information contributes to spread of
HIV/AIDS, particularly among women and the youth. According to a survey by the UNICEF and the
national statistical agency (ISTEEBU) in 2000, only 75% of women aged 15 to 49 knew that having a
single non-infected partner would protect them from infection by HIV/AIDS and only 48% believed
that condom use would protect them. Apparently, many women believe false infornation. For instance,
only 72% of women knew the HIV/AIDS could not be transmitted by supematural means and 69%
knew that HIV/AIDS could not be transmitted by mosquitoes.
*   High prevalence of risky behaviors. High risk sexual behaviors are common. Women begin child
bearing at a very early age. Lack of knowledge of effective prevention methods constitutes a major
determinant. Almost two in every five young girls who knew about HIV/AIDS and were sexually
active, did not know what a condom was and only 7 percent among them had ever used a condom.
Misconceptions regarding STI/HIV/AIDS are consistently reported among youth (15-19 years of age)
including the belief that HIV/AIDS can be transmitted by insect bites, kissing, sharing dishes and
touching someone with AIDS. Misconceptions about transmission may help to explain why condom
use remains very low. The high prevalence of risky behavior can also be attributed to Burundi's
pervesive poverty that forces people to concentrate on immediate survival needs away from long term
considerations.
*   High prevalence of STIs and poor sexual and reproductive health. The country's STI rates - the
most important risk factor along with unprotected sex - are high.
*   Women's subordinate status. Specific biological reasons explain the higher vulnerability of women to
HIV infection compared to men. This gender differential vulnerability is accentuated by traditional
practices and the economic balance of prover which constrain women's control over their sexuality. For
instance, the practice of gutera intobo allows a father to seek sexual favors from his son's wife and
gusobanya allows a man to do the same with his brother's wife when the brother is absent. In addition,
the practice of gucura means that a woman is expected to marry her husband's brother when her
husband dies. Gender imbalance may also arise from the difficulty many women experience in
convincing their partners to use condoms or to get tested for HIV/AIDS.
* Socio-political instability. This epidemiological situation is partly explained by the civil strife that was
triggered by the assassination of the President of Burundi in 1993. Widespread violence led to the
displacement of about one million people, out of a population of 6.4 million (1997). Promiscuity in
refugees camps, extreme poverty, violence and rape all contributed to a general deterioration of public
health arid to the spread of AIDS and other communicable diseases. The conflict has continued at a
variable and usually low intensity. The cost of conducting the conflict has brought a sharp reduction in
public resources available for health and education, and this has further constrained the struggle
against HIV/AIDS. Moreover, continuing movements of formal armies, militia and bandits both within
Burundi and in neighboring countries, contribute to the spread of HIV/AIDS.
*   Limited resources. The capacity to respond to the threat of STI/HIV/AIDS infection is insufficient in
Burundi. Financial, material and human resources are lacking. The institutions. other than the MOH,
responsible for the response to curb the spread of HIV/AIDS have only been recently established and
-48 -



have weak management capacity. The sentinel surveillance system has not functioned properly for the
last five years and needs to be strengthened. The large number of small initiatives have not been
implemented in a coordinated effort. Organizational and management capacity also needs
strengthening. Financial resources and materials are required to enhance and expand ongoing
successful, critical programs. Implementation capacity is uneven across line ministries and the majority
of these ministries have not worked on HIV/AIDS issues in the past. With the exception of some
religious groups, many civil society entities and NGOs are relatively young and inexperienced. The
results of the institutional and organizational capacity assessment, carried out under the PHRD Grant,
indicate that sharing of information and lack of communication are major bottlenecks to
implementation.
*   Poverty. Poverty is another very important vulnerability factor. It is closely associated with: (i) low
literacy, especially among rural women; (ii) commercial sex; (iii) failure to use condoms; (iv) poor
treatment of STIs; and (v) lack of awareness of effective preventive measures. Poverty is rampant in
Burundi, where more than 70 percent of the population lives on less than US$1 a day. HIV/AIDS
exacerbates poverty because of its negative impact on all aspects of development. Several studies by
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) have shown that HIV/AIDS can drive households into
poverty by forcing sale of assets (e.g. livestock) to cover medical costs or by reducing household labor
available for agricultural activities. This is particularly relevant for Burundi where 91.6 percent of the
national population lives in rural areas and more than 80 percent depend on agriculture. Illiteracy
associated with poverty, prevents the poor from access to relevant IEC messages.
3. Response to Date
The Government of Burundi first responded to the crisis in 1986, i.e. three years after the first Burundi
cases of HIV were diagnosed. Since then, an impressive number of actions have been implemented.
These include the following:
*   Institutional arrangements: This effort started by the establishment in the Ministry of Health, of
what became the Programme national de Lutte Contre le Sida (PNLS). Increased support for a
multi-sectoral effort to control HIV/AIDS then led to the creation of the Conseil National de Lutte
contre le Syndrome Immuno-Deficitaire Acquis (CNLS) in the President's office in July 2001. On
November 1, 2001, the Ministere d la Presidence charge de la Lutte contre le VIHISIDA (MPVS)
was created to coordinate the national efforts against HIV/AIDS following a reshuffle of the
Government in the context of the Arusha Peace Agreement. The newly created Ministry has taken
over some of the functions previously assigned to the Office of the Second Vice President. On
March 1, 2002, the President signed the Decree No. 100/032 to clarify the relationship between
MPVS (the newly created HIV/AIDS Ministry) and the CNLS. The CNLS is charged with
providing the general orientation of the national HIV/AIDS program and overseeing its
implementation and relies on the Pernanent Executive Secretariat, its technical arm, for the
day-to-day coordination of the Project. In addition, UNAIDS theme group, made up of
representatives of the donors and development agencies, including the World Bank, has been
created to provide support and advice to the Govemrnment on HIV/AlDS. The group has prepared
an Inter-Agency Program to support the Government's NSP, in which all donors specify the forn
of their participation. The technical arm of thematic group, which meets regularly, includes
representatives from Government, multilateral, bilateral and NGOs.
* Design of strategic plans. A short-term plan was designed and implemented for 1987-1988 and
was followed by the First Medium Term Plan (1988-92) and then the Second Medium Term Plan
-49 -



(1993-97). In March 1997, the Govenmment launched preparation of the National Strategic Plan for
the fight against AIDS over 1999-2003. Over 1997-98, a task force established in the Ministry of
Health consulted widely with stakeholders, including representatives of the private sector, religious
groups, NGOs, and people living with AIDS. This participatory process culminated in a national
workshop that was held in October 1998 and let to a consensus on priority measures for
combatting HIV/AIDS. The HIV/AIDS strategic plan for 1999-2003 was formally adopted in
November 1998. The plan was significant in part because of the emphasis placed on the active
involvement of all sectors and partners.
* Widening the spectrum of implementing agencies. In Burundi, AIDS control activities are
implemented by public and private agencies. At first, the Ministry of Health had the largest
HIV/AIDS action plan. Later on, other key ministries, notably the Ministry of Information, the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of National Defense as well as private agencies joined the fight
against HIV/AIDS. In 2000, about 35 Burundian NGOs were active in the fight against
HIV/AIDS.Fifteen NGOs have established an umbrella group, which provides logistical support to
its members. The NGOs are especially active in Information Education and Communication (IEC),
HIV/AIDS counselling, provision of psycho-social and material support, especially to orphans and
widows, and medical assistance to people living with HIV/AIDS and to their families. An
encouraging development in Burundi has been the formation of NGOs led by people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). Religious groups, especially the Catholic Church, provide a sizable
proportion of basic social services, particularly in the rural areas. They are also involved in the
care, support and treatment of people affected by HIV/AIDS. Churches of all denomination
recognize that the epidemic is a major threat to the sustainability of their efforts. They have
stepped up their activities in the prevention and mitigation of HIV/AIDS even though subtle
opposition remains on the issue of broad dissemination of condoms and other contraceptives. The
extended family system has offered social protection to its members at a scale that is still highly
significant. For instance, a great number of orphans in Burundi live with their extended families.
But farnilies and communities are under severe strain from a stagnating economy and the costs of
caring for a growing number of sick people and orphans.
The country's successive actions plans for the control of HWV/AIDS have achieved impressive results
despite all sorts of constraints. To slow the spread of HIV/AIDS, Burundi has implemented the
following of prevention activities:
*   IEC Campaigns. The five private radio stations that exist in Burundi as well as the public radio
and TV system are heavily used to broadcast numerous messages on HIV/AIDS (more than 200 in
2000 alone);
*   Promotion of condom use and distribution. The number of condoms distributed was about 2,6
million in 1999 and 3,1 million in 2000;
*   Detection and treatment of STIs. Government has already initiated an STI management program to
slow the spread of HIV transmission. Given the difficult etiological diagnosis of most infection,
particularly in women, an option has been taken to rely primarily on clinical methods of diagnosing
STIs by means of algorithms, reserving to referral hospitals the techniques which are expensive,
technically demanding and beyond the capacity of most health facilities.
*   Ensuring safe blood transfusion: The risk of acquiring AIDS through blood transfusion has been
significantly reduced in Burundi through efforts of the Ministry of Health to ensure that all blood
- 50 -



donations are tested. In most cases, donors are interviewed and examined using a standardized
form. Those who are considered to be at high risk are deferred. In addition, blood specimens from
donors are tested for antibody to HIV by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 3
centers (Bujumbura, Gitega, and Ngozi)
*   Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT): Intensive counselling immediately after testing has proven
effective in altering people's behavior so they avoid risky sexual practices. It also guides
individuals infected with HIV, and their families, to seek emotional, social and medical care, and
people who test sero-negative to access suitable support and services. In 2000, a total of 26,517
persons have been provided VCT services by the 88 centers that had embarked on the VCT
program
*   Prevention of mother-to-child transmission (MCT): This program, which the Govermment intends
to scale up, started on a pilot basis in one health center at Buyenzi, in Bujumbura with assistance
from UNICEF. By the end 2000, the center had provided MCT services to 86 mother-child pairs.
Services typically include IEC activities to inform mothers about the risks of mother-to-child
transmission and encourage them to undergo voluntary HIV testing; diagnosis and treatment of
STIs among mothers attending prenatal care clinics, HIV screening and counselling, and material
assistance to mothers infected with HIV, to their children and spouses.
*   Community-based care of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). In 2000, a total of 1,382
PLWHAs received home-based care.
To reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on individuals and communities, Burundi has implemented the
following actions to mitigate the spread of HIV/AIDS:
*   Treatment of HIV and opportunistic infections. Following the 1st Declaration of the September
1997 Meeting in Dakar on the place of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in the patients infected by
AIDS in Africa, the Government embarked on negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry on the
cost of drugs. These negotiations have resulted in reducing the monthly cost of the tritherapy from
US$1,000 in 1999 to US$100 in 2001. To improve the access to ART, the Government has
created a Fbul00,000,000 Solidarity Fund. In July 2001, about 600 patients were receiving ART.
In addition, algorithms have been developed for the treatment of opportunistic infections (01).
*   Community-based care of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). By the end of 2000, a total of
1,904 PLWHAs had received home-based care.
*   Psycho-social assistance to persons affected by HIV. In 2000, 167 persons, including 20
physicians received a training on how to provide psycho-social assistance to persons affected by
HIV and 26,500 individuals were given some assistance.
To build the capacity of institutions which struggle against HIV/AIDS and improve the overall
management of the Program, Burundi has implemented the following areas:
*   Organization of HIV/AIDS teams. At a national roundtable in April 2000, Government reached a
tripartite agreement with employers' and employees' representatives that all ministries,
administrative directorates, and parastatals would establish HIV/AIDS units to provide support to
people affected by HIV/AIDS. All ministries have set up their units and these are operational in 8
of 23 ministries. Three ministries have outlined their sector strategies (Ministries of National
- 51 -



Defense, Health, and Social Action and Protection of Women). Nearly all the administrative
directorates and parastatals (27 out 28) have set up their HIV/AIDS units, of which 20 are
functional. Five have drafted sector strategies for HIV/AIDS control activities. The health and
education sectors, with the exception of universities, are the most advanced in clarifying their plans
IDEC (2001).
*   Establishment of HIV/AIDS committees. These committees have been established in 16 provinces
and the municipality of Bujumbura. Capacity to execute at the commune level has also improved
since the IDA-supported Second Social Action Project and a FIDA project have mobilized nearly
all the communes in the country and sponsored elections of Community Development Committees.
These Committees participate in the execution of donor supported projects by choosing activities,
contributing in labor and materials, and conducting part of the implementation. These communities
work with Provincial Govemors and Commune Administrators to avoid conflicts and to assure
consistency with regional development efforts. The committees provide a natural instrument for
execution of community-based activities to combat HIV/AIDS.
*   Training of leaders. About 1,560 leaders from 60 communes have been trained. The Ministry of
Health is positioned to provide professional assistance for scaling up HIV/AIDS mitigation
activities through its IEC unit which has a production of written material and media content other
sectors can use and adapt. The BEPES has decentralized IEC functions by training over a hundred
IEC trainers in seven provinces (Cibitoke, Muramvya, Mwaro, Gitega, Karuzi, Muyinga and
Kirundo). A further 1080 animators have been trained at commune level and constitute a network
that can train community health workers, health educators at schools, and others at delivery points
for other services.
*   Surveys. Burundi has carried out two surveys on the behavior of social groups in relation to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic;
*   HIV surveillance: A program was initiated in 1992 to monitor HIV prevalence in the general
population. It focuses on pregnant women who attend antenatal care. Sentinel surveillance into the
activities of ante-natal clinics. Occasionally, the prevalence of HIV and STIs is tacked by using
samples from voluntary HIV testing and other routine medical tests. Currently, the activity is
carried out on a continuous basis by a network of seven sentinel sites (sites sanitaires de
surveillance).
To date, the impact of Burundi's efforts to control HIV/AIDS have been limited as evidenced by the
continuous rising of sero-prevalence particularly in rural areas and findings of successive Behavioral
Monitoring Surveys (BMS) (1991,1993, 1999, and 2000). The 2000 BMS showed that:
*   Although AIDS is cited as the most important public health problem by 96.8% of men and 94.4%
of women, 10% of adults have misconceptions about HIV transmission;
*   Condom use remain low: 24.6% men and 18.5% women report having used condom at least once;
and,
*   High risk behaviors remain prevalent, particularly among the Youth.
Various factors explain these disappointing results. Turning first to prevention, IEC activities are weak and
fragmented. There are five private radio stations in the country, in addition to the public radio and TV
- 52 -



system. A recent survey of social behavior shows that radio is by far the most important source of
information. People who can afford a functioning ratio - less than 30% of the population - relay messages
to other people in the community. Experience shows, however, that broadcast messages do not substantially.
change behavior. This was, for example, the case for bed nets in the anti-malaria campaign. Furthermore,
most radio run on batteries and these are expensive and not readily available in remote locations. Some
other prevention issues are that facilities and drugs for treatment of opportunistic infections are inadequate,
and the lack of resources limits antiretroviral treatment to prevent mother to child transmission of
HIV/AIDS. Transfusion-associated infections still occur for a number of reasons because interviews and
clinical examinations can fail to identify people belonging to high risk groups and blood specimens may not
be properly tested prior to being transfused. The largest challenge however is the severe shortage of blood
banks in peripheral hospitals.
With regard to mitigation, neither public nor private providers can carry out psychological, social, food,
and income-generating support for orphans and people affected by HIV/AIDS at the scale necessary. The
same is true for home-based care for people with AIDS, particularly outside Bujumbura. For people living
with AIDS, treatment with anti-retroviral therapy is limited to the few people who can afford the treatment.
According to existing data, men are more likely to receive treatment than women.
Insufficient resources account for these disappointing results. The lack of resources severely limits the
effectiveness of the basic health and education systems --which could prove formidable tools for fighting
HIV/AIDS. The socio-political crisis facing Burundi has many donors to withdraw their assistance to the
country. The Government allocates negligible budget resources for maintenance and this led to the decay of
physical infrastructure, particularly of rural hospitals, health centers and schools. Civil servants are, in
general, poorly motivated by low and rigid salaries. This may help explain why the central office created in
the Ministry of Health to address HIV/AIDS issues has been plagued by low morale and high turnover. An
additional factor in the poor results to date is that NGOs working on HIV/AIDS are insufficiently funded
and organized. The scarcity of trained personnel contribute to poor results so far achieved. The inefficiency
of the health sector, for instance, is aggravated by lack of systematic in-service training programs, loose
and inadequate supervision. The availability of qualified teachers has declined dramatically, because of
lack of opportunity for in-service training and advancement, as well as poor salaries. Deaths from
HIV/AIDS have also reduced the number of trained and experienced personnel dealing effectively with
HIV/AIDS related services.
A further explanation for poor results are regional disparities in provision of HIV/AIDS related services.
Transmission of HIV/AIDS messages through education is limited by regional disparity in enrollment rates:
for example, gross enrollment rates in primary school are 85 percent in Bujumbura Mairie compared with 9
percent in the province of Bubanza. Between 1992 and 1998, the number of primary school teachers
increased by 13 percent but this was concentrated in 8 provinces. Similar observations would apply to the
public health system. Coverage by NGOs engaged in the struggle against HIV/AIDS, in particular, is
concentrated in Bujumbura. The lesson is that a more successful struggle will require decentralization of
budgets and services out of Bujumbura and a better balance of resources among regions.
The limited capacity and centralization of HIV/AIDS NGOs has also been a constraint. In addition,
capacity at the decentralized level was limited by the lack of personnel and budget at the provincial and
communal administration level. Poverty remains probably the most important factor.
- 53 -



4. Strategic Plan 2002 - 2006
4.1.   Goal
The goal of the 2002-2006 AIDS Strategic Plan is to improve the Burundi human capital.
4.2. Basic Principles of the Strategic Plan
*   Continued commitment of Head of State, Government, political and religious leaders, and
communities, to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic through a multi-sectoral approach at all levels while
reinforcing the leadership role of the MOH.
*   Decentralization of activities, reinforcement of partnerships and stronger involvement of all strata
of the conimunity.
*   More emphasis on prevention, VCT, treatment, and care for PLWHA, according to eligibility
requirements.
* Identification of mechanisms for channeling resources efficiently;
* Capitalize the gains made so far HIV/AIDS.
4.3.   Objectives
* To slow the spread of HIV infection and
* To mitigate the medical and social impact of HIV/AIDS.
4.4    Strategies
The Government of Burundi has decided, through the 2002-2006 Strategic Plan, to intensify its AIDS
control activities at all levels and secure the necessary financial and human resources for the prevention,
detection, treatment and follow-up of H1V/AIDS with particular emphasis on monitoring and evaluation
(M&E). The three lines of the national response are (i) prevention, (ii) mitigation of the damage caused by
HIV/AIDS, and (iii) capacity building.
With regard to prevention, the Plan includes the following specific actions:
* Reduction of high risk behaviors. This line of action will focus on the public sector and will be
complemented by similar support for initiatives generated by NGOs, faith-based organizations,
community associations and private enterprises. In the public sector, the Ministry of Information will
have leading responsibility for an IEC strategy which will benefit and receive contributions from all
sectors. This ministry will also identify and select sub-contracting agencies for EEC. Every four
months individuals and groups will be invited through highly publicized press announcements to offer
IEC proposals. The offers will be appraised by an ad hoc jury; the best ones will be awarded prizes
and selected for implementation. The national IEC effort aims at maintaining people's awareness of
HIV/AIDS risks and protection measures. Messages will put an emphasis on abstinence, fidelity, or
condom use. Given the parameters of the local socio-cultural settings, abstinence would be promoted
as the method of first choice for the single and the young; and condoms for commercial or casual sex.
- 54 -



It is very likely that during the IEC campaigns, members of target audiences will express interest in
avoiding unsafe sex practices and embarking on new activities to meet their physical, emotional, or
financial needs. To ensure effective change in practices, the project will address (consider financing
proposals for) the factors that these discussion groups identify as critical for counteracting sexual
behaviors that put people at risk for infection of HIV/AIDS;
*   Promotion of condom use and distribution. This will promote access and utilization of male and female
condoms throughout the country. Activities will be carried out primarily by local organizations with
technical support from experienced international partners. The priority is on using a wide range of
existing commercial infrastructures to ensure the availability of condoms in traditional outlets such as
pharmacies and drug stores, and non-traditional points such as bars, beauty salons hotels, workplaces,
and gas stations. Community-based agents will be recruited from among particular groups of the
general population. The agents will receive basic training in motivation and sales, and rewarded
financially from recruiting additional people to act as sales agents;
*   Detection and treatment of STIs. The Plan proposes: (i) the dissemination of case management
protocols; (ii) procurement of laboratory and other medical equipment; (iii) purchase of antibiotics and
other medical supplies; (iv) consultants' services; and (v) operating costs to carry out diagnostic,
therapeutic and monitoring activities.
*   Ensuring safe blood transfusion: To further reduce the risk of HIV transmission through transfusion,
the Plan proposes: (i) the development of normns concerning blood transfusion including for donor
recruitment and injection safety; (ii) costs of construction (building extensions) and equipping blood
transfusion centers at the central level and regional sites; (iii) setting up blood banks in selected health
facilities to bring broader coverage nationally; (iv) procurement and distribution of reagents, tests, and
other supplies required to ensure the safety of blood transfusion; (v) organization of National Days to
promote blood donations; and (vi) monitoring the safety of blood transfusion throughout the country.
*   Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT): Intensive counseling immediately after testing has proven
effective in altering people's behavior so that they avoid risky sexual practices. It also guides
individuals infected with HIV, and their families, to seek emotional, social and medical care, and
people who test sero-negative to access suitable support and services. The Ministry of Health intends
to increase the current number of 80 centers embarked on the VCT program. The Plan supports: (i)
procurement of laboratory and other medical equipment; (ii) purchase and distribution of HIV tests and
other laboratory supplies; (iii) consultants' services; and (iv) specific operating costs; and
* Prevention of mother-to-child transmission (MCT): Burundi intends to scale up this activity to ensure
there is a MCT program in at least one health facility in each of the seventeen provinces. The Plan
supports this expansion, which will involve financing: (i) purchase and distribution of Zidovudine
(AZT) tablets and syrup, and Nevirapine tablets; (ii) consultants' services; and (iii) operating costs for
diagnostic and therapeutic services. The Government policy is to continue to allow donors to procure,
distribute and make available in health facilities both drugs, AZT and Nevirapine. As is currently the
case, some patients are treated with AZT while others are treated with Nevirapine.
With regard to mitigation, the national response includes the following actions:
* Revenue-generating activities. During this process, proposals for revenue-generating activities are
expected to emerge. The Plan intends to expand the financial capacity of extended families and local
communities to cope with HIV/AIDS and provide support for people infected or affected with HIV,
- 55 -



particularly individuals with AIDS, orphans and widows.
*   Expansion of home care for people living with HIV/AIDS;
*   Expansion of treatment for opportunistic infections and of ART. In industrialized countries, regimens
which combine two or more highly active anti-retrovirals have had a dramatic effect on the long-term
survival of people with HIV. In poor countries like Burundi, these regiments will remain inaccessible
to most people infected with HIV for the foreseeable future, even if the current dialogue between the
government and the pharmaceutical industry results in a dramatic decrease in the cost of these drugs.
The recognition of this fact has led Burundi to resort to less costly interventions to limit discomfort and
reduce the incidence of life-threatening infections among PLWHA. The package of medical services to
be provided to these persons includes drugs to treat infectious diseases, including infections with
Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Pneumocystis carinii, Cryptoccoccus. sp, and Candida sp. For the
activities which involve provision of medical services, either through the public response or what has
been categorized as "civil society response," the Burundi Project supports the development and
dissemination of case management protocols; purchase of selected medical supplies including
antibiotics, antifungal drugs, painkillers, antidiarrheals, and certain other essential drugs; consultants'
services; and operating costs to carry out specific diagnostic and therapeutic services. The National
response also supports research and studies to identify herbal materials that could be used
cost-effectively to improve the well being of PLWHA.
Concerning capacity building, the national response includes the following actions:
*   Organization of HIV/AIDS teams in line ministries and public enterprises to promote the
prevention of HIV/AIDS and to provide support to people affected HIV/AIDS.
*   Establishment of HIV/AIDS committees in the 16 provinces and the municipality of Bujumbura;
and
*   Training of leaders.
With regard to program management, the national response includes the following actions:
* Surveys on the behavior of social groups in relation to the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
* Monitoring, evaluation and epidemiological surveillance. In this context, the Plan intends support
the expansion of the program that was initiated in 1992 to monitor IRV prevalence in the general
population, focusing on pregnant women who attend antenatal care; and
*   Skills training: The Plan intends to facilitate the access of public and private organizations to
technical assistance to develop their HIV/AIDS mitigation plans. In the context of AIDS,
caregivers, including teachers, may also need psychological care and help as they attempt to guide
and stand by children who are affected by HIV/AIDS.
- 56 -



5.     Institutional framework
To be effective against the HIV epidemic, all sectors of the Burundi's public sector and civil society need to
be involved in a multisectoral response to HIV/AIDS. This has led the GOB to establish an institutional
framework that reflects the multisectoral nature of the national HIV/AIDS program and facilitates the
establishment of an effective partnership between all sectors and civil society for a concerted and
decentralized response to the epidemic. The institutional framework includes the following structures:
*   A National AIDS Commission (CNLS), chaired by the President and comprised of organs
specified in diagram below;
*   Sectoral Focal Teams
*   Public Implementing Entities; and
*   Private Implementing Entities.
Pkedt* .1wdl
CN1S Guwd Assct:                 IvIVAfII Sutw r.ed Team
ChFir: Pnsides t¢ BWM_          CCarodksAn: Lim Mbt1M e
Ccc.oscoh: Cl Dito             RPpnseaives of Crn Socuty
2     e pisult s of cfillda
OSiakazit of teut 
CNIS C)1x5 DkCtnr                Iad RV/'ABl CUvm.
- Chrt: msidat d Cmnt i          Ctaposhkni: Losil t =mIseUim A
N -O * ta4h: at                              Cttsi  e  _  1  of C¢ ci Sociey
c1as P    d             5 n
L    e6uno                            cce0mn iiWvAms c
*Chat. MPUS                        CttposStion: Lochl ubtsa_  e
.CauppocXol^: CNLS Dbctar e      a4iatles* d¢ Civi so iw
s:
Out: CNLS Directsr              Lesl NUIAMS C    e
Cac**Skfiwi: Ceiicend fil       Composfdn: LOWa ebdwsc &
-57 -



The constitution and responsibilities of these structures and their relationships with other partners is
discussed in a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) under preparation. The manual also define the
responsibilities of each category of participants in the implementation of the program and the procedures
for financing activities. It provide also guidelines for the preparation of funding proposals, and for their
implementation and supervision. It will include standard contracts for a broad range of activities. In
addition, the manual will define procurement arrangements and financial management requirements.
The National Council for the Fight against HIV/AIDS (CNLS)
The Conseil National de Lutte contre le Syndrome Immuno-Deficitaire Acquis (CNLS) was created in July
2001 by a Presidential Decree. The CNLS is placed under the Office of the President and operates pursuant
to the Decree No. 100/032 dated March 1, 2002. The CNLS is charged with coordinating implementation
of the national HIV/AIDS program.
The plenary body of CNLS, known as the General Assembly, is chaired by the President of Burundi and is
composed of high-level civil service officials, including the Minister of Finance, as well as representatives
of civil society. The General Assembly will meet at least once every three months. During its fourth annual
meeting, the General Assembly of the CNLS will review and approve implementation plans for the
following year. These plans will be formally submitted to the Bank for comments and review.
The CNLS Coordination Bureau is charged with overseeing the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS.
This body is chaired by the President of Burundi and is composed of the Vice-President of Burundi and the
MPVS.
The CNLS Permanent Executive Committee is the executive body of the CNLS. It is chaired by the MPVS
and composed of two representatives of civil society and the Director of the Permanent Executive
Secretariat. The Permanent Executive Committee is charged with coordinating the implementation of the
national HIV/AIDS program. It will be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project, and in
particular for promotion of the Project, review of funding exceptionally large proposals (i.e. above
US$100,000) and monitoring of progress.
The CNLS Permanent Executive Secretariat (PES) is the administrative and technical arm of the CNLS,
responsible for project coordination. The PES will ensure the day-to-day project coordination.
Specifically, the PES will be responsible for: (a) development of its annual work programs and budget; (b)
procurement and disbursement activities; (c) monitoring and evaluation; (d) financial management; and (e)
reporting to and assisting the CNLS. The PES is also expected to promote local and provincial activities
and to provide support for the formulation of funding proposals. The CNLS PES will review the annual
work programs and budget proposals by ministries and other govemmental institutions. The activities and
projects that appear in the ministry's annual program will then be considered approved for funding. The
CNLS PES will also review individual funding proposals for either (i) submission to the CNLS Permanent
Executive Committee, or, (ii) for approval if the proposals amount equal to or more than US$ 10,000 but
less than U$100,000. Once a work program or project proposal is approved, the CNLS PES will sign a
contractual agreement with the implementing agency. The PES will also ensure adequate monitoring of
progress made in the implementation of activities financed under the program and for assessing their
impact. The CNLS PES will be staffed by consultants at the national and intermediary levels. At national
level, it will be headed by a permanent secretary and include at least a program officer and six specialists,
one each in financial management, accounting, procurement, TEC, training and monitoring and evaluation.
These consultants will be recruited through competitive procedures and their tenure will be based on agreed
- 58 -



performance-based contracts. During project preparation, the key staff of the CNLS PES were selected and
hired on these terms.
Provincial HIV/AIDS Committees will be established in all provinces and the municipality of Bujumbura.
They will be composed of heads of department and representatives of civil society organizations. On
average they will include 15 members, of which 5 are women and at least one from the PLWHA. The
provincial committees will be responsible for promoting activities to be funded under the Project and for
monitoring implementation progress. The Teams will have the authority to approve proposals that are more
than US$3,000 but less than US$10,000.
Communal HIV/AIDS Committees will be established in all communes of the country These committees
will play a major role in promoting the messages of the HIV/AIDS program. They will help local agencies
and organizations prepare proposals for funding. They will have the authority to approve proposals costing
the equivalent of US$3000 or less. Where they exist, Communal development committees (CDC) will be
asked to play the role of Communal HIV/AIDS Committees. The CDCs have been established under the
BURSAP I and II projects financed by IDA, a project financed by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) and a number of projects supported by NGOs. In July 2001, about two thirds of the
121 communes had a CDC.
Sectoral Focal Teams
Teams will be established for each sector and charged with facilitating development and implementation of
sector strategies as well as identifying and promoting projects for each sector. The teams will receive
technical assistance as needed. They will be made of representatives of government institutions and private
organizations.
6.     Program Implementation
Activities funded under the project will be implemented by two broad categories of executing agencies
comprised of govemment institutions and private implementing organizations working with
community-based associations.
On the government side, each line ministry has prepared a strategy and a plan that has been incorporated
into the national Action Plan for which activities to be implemented in project year one have been costed
and evaluated. Line ministries will designate cadres for various review boards to review proposals
prepared by their units and ensure that they conform with sectoral standards. They will report regularly to
CNLS on progress made in plan implementation. The steering committee set up for the preparation of the
orphan component of the program will review proposals for direct support to orphans prior to their
submission to the CNLS to ensure that agreed upon selection criteria are applied. Provinces and communes
will be at the forefront of program implementation.
Provincial HIV/AIDS committees have been established in the provinces and in the municipality of
Bujumbura.  These are a composed of heads of department and representatives of civil society
organizations and on average have 15 members, of which 5 will be women and at least one a PLWHA.
Provincial committees will be responsible for promoting activities to be funded under the program and for
monitoring implementation progress.
Communal development committees (CDC) have been established under the BURSAP I and II projects
financed by IDA, a project financed by the Intemational Fund of Agricultural Development (IFAD) and a
- 59 -



number of projects supported by NGOs. In July 2000, about two thirds of the 121 communes have a CDC.
These committees will play a major role in promoting the messages of the HIV/AIDS program. They will
help local agencies and organizations prepare proposals for funding. They will have the authority to
approve proposals costing less than the equivalent of US$3000.
Funds received by line ministries will be complemented by contributions from line ministry budgets,
including provision for a Focal Team or HIV/AIDS unit that will be responsible for policy coordination,
monitoring, and reporting on the sector response to HIV/AIDS by that particular sector. Line ministries
will implement their respective plans through their existing central, regional, and departmental units. They
will provide administrative and technical support to their implementation units, including relevant
guidelines, training and monitoring. and evaluation. They will also ensure that appropriate financial, human
and physical resources are channelled to regional and departmental governments to enable a decentralized
response to HIV/AIDS. A formal contract including a work program and budget with agreed input and
output indicators will guide the relationship between line ministries, the NES and the FMA. The NES will
be responsible for providing technical assistance and quality control to line ministries.
The private implementing agencies will receive project funds through sub-projects proposed and
implemented by a variety of organizations. Communities and CBOs will organize themselves and present
their project proposals to the respective regional or departmental committee and will be responsible, for
executing their projects. Communities and CBOs may decide to enter into contract with a non governmental
organization to assist them in the preparation and implementation of projects. The cost of such assistance
will not exceed 20% of the total project cost. Communities will contribute in kind to sub-project financing
for a minimum amount of 5% of total project costs. Other civil society organizations (including NGOs,
religious organizations, associations, unions, and private enterprises) may present sub-project proposals of
a national, regional or departmental scope to be directly financed by the project. Eighty percent of total
sub-project costs must be directed to activities targeted to beneficiaries. Some private sector organizations
may also be contracted to implement specific project activities in the areas of research and evaluation or in
any other topic area, as deemed necessary. The criteria for eligibility as well as funds allocated to each
organization wilt be determined according to a set of criteria established for different categories of
applicants. A roster of over 200 civil society organizations working in HIV/AIDS has been established and
reflects different categories of NGOs, and CBOs, classified according to their experience, geographic
coverage, target beneficiaries and ability to carry out HIV/AIDS projects. The roster will be updated to
include private sector organizations and other associations and will be reviewed twice a year during project
implementation.
The project will be implemented in an incremental manner starting with those line ministries, NGOs, and
CBOs which already have HIV/AIDS work plans and projects. Coverage will be extended to other sectors
and organizations of the civil society as their implementation capacity is strengthened and their work plan
and projects prepared. Line ministries and their regional and district structures will prepare annually, a
work plan and budget for each fiscal year. Planned activities for the first year of project implementation
will be reviewed at credit negotiations. Twice a year, a jury composed of the highest political, religious
and scientific authorities in the county will meet to select ten innovative initiatives for the prevention and
control of HIV/AIDS. Initiatives thus selected will receive an award equivalent to US$ 1000.
The project provides for a mechanism to establish capacity-building partnerships between NGOs at
different levels, whereby less experienced, smaller NGOs will work with larger, more experienced NGOs in
order to gain technical and project coordination skills as they implement projects under the guidance of the
larger NGO. National NGOs will be required to work in partnership with local NGOs as a criterion for
eligibility, and will be afforded resources to provide such technical assistance. Other eligibility criteria for
any applicant organization will include coherence with the strategic directions of the PMLS, experience
- 60 -



with HIV/AIDS and Community Development, Management Capacity and Community Participation. A
project implementation manual which describes in detail the project's institutional and implementation
arrangements, and administrative procedures is being prepared and an advanced version will be reviewed at
appraisal. The manual will set out the functional relationships between the different organs in the
institutional framework, the criteria and guidelines for allocation of funds including under the grant
mechanism, as well as accounting norms and reporting requirements for all responsible and implementing
agencies. Extemal technical and financial audits of the project will be carried out regularly by the
govenmment in order to ensure financial and technical compliance and quality control.
7.     Management
The overall management of the 2002-2006 National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS will be under the
responsibility of the CNLS which will rely on its CNLS-PES for the day-to-day operation and the technical
aspects of the management. Core members of the CNLS-PES will be in charge of the technical
coordination of program, monitoring and evaluation and financial management.
7. 1. Monitoring and evaluation of the Strategic Plan
Given the multisectoral nature of Burundi's Program against HIV/AIDS, monitoring and evaluation will
constitute critical elements of project implementation. Program monitoring and evaluation will aim at: (i)
monitoring project activities; (ii) evaluating the impact of project activities including changes in knowledge,
attitudes and behaviors; availability and quality of health and other services; prevalence of HIV and other
STIs; as well as in policy and political commitment; and (iii) providing support for the studies to be
conducted under Component 5. It will be based on a broad range of measures, including impact indicators
and more intermediate process and output measures to capture project performance in the more immediate
term. Program impact will be measured employing data from the HIV sentinel surveillance, baseline and
end-point population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices and behavior. Service utilization
and special studies commissioned to assess impact in specific areas not easily addressed by
population-based surveys will also be used. Monitoring of the program will be carried out using the
Project's Management Information System (MIS), program-based data, beneficiary inputs and program
reviews. (See list of indicators below)
The CNLS PES will be responsible for ensuring adequate monitoring of overall program implementation,
assessing physical progress as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation at national,
provincial and community levels. Line ministries will be responsible for monitoring implementation of their
plans and of provincial and local activities within their respective mandates. The activities of civil society
organizations and community based organizations will be monitored and evaluated based on their contracts.
To ensure good quality of findings, monitoring and evaluation would be contracted out to groups of
extemal consultants.
The Burundi AIDS Commission (CNLS) will organize annual program reviews, a mid-term program
review and a program completion review to evaluate the performance by component and its assess its
contribution to the national effort to reduce the spread and impact of HIV/AIDS.
CNLS and IDA will organize a joint program launch workshop at the time of credit effectiveness. One of
the main purposes of the workshop will be to make further progress on program monitoring and reporting
requirements. During the program mid-term review, various indicators will be used to assess program
performance. Needs for procedure adjustment and fund reallocation, if any, will be reviewed.
The multi-sectoral Program will be implemented through a series of HIV/AIDS action plans presented by
- 61 -



line ministries and other public sector agencies as well as projects proposed by a large number of civil
society organizations (NGOs, women's groups, associations, private enterprises and community-based
organizations).
Civil Society organizations will submit project proposals to the financial management Section (FMS) of the
CNLS PES at the national or regional level according to the amount and geographic coverage involved.
The Section will analyze the proposals according to the Operational Manual (OM) and submit a synthesis
report to the CNLS-PES. The CNLS-PES will review the technical quality of the projects and their fit with
the OM and the National Strategic Plan. Once approved by the Executive Secretary, the FMS will contract
the relevant civil society organization under delegated authority of the CNLS and ensure the collection of
reports and monitoring of the financial aspects of the activities. Where necessary, the FMS will also
provide capacity building support in the area of financial and management skills. Implementation
procedures of the civil society component will be detailed in the PIM.
Civil society organizations will also receive capacity building support for technical aspects and in the
development of proposals from other sources. Within six months of project effectiveness, the CNLS PES
and its regional counterparts must present a capacity-building plan to be implemented by the end for the
first year (possibly through contracting out). The CNLS PES, regional and departmental counterparts as
well as Ministry Focal Teams will also directly provide capacity building support for civil society
organizations within their purview. National NGOs with reputed capacity building programs will also be
encouraged to apply for funding from the program under component one to support smaller NGOs, CBOs
and other elements of the public sector and civil society in developing and implementing projects in the
fight against HIV/AIDS.
The Public Sector will be targeted through a variety of Ministries and parastatals that include the MOH,
the Ministry for Women, the Ministry for Youth, etc. These Ministries develop and implement action plans
budgeted annually and funded under the project to ensure that resources reach target beneficiaries. Funding
is also provided for management, monitoring and evaluation of their activities. The focal points established
in the Ministries will undertake the responsibility for the execution, in a timely manner, of all activities
defined in the logical framework. They will inform the National Executive Secretariat during the regular
monthly meetings. They will also ensure participation and coordination in the regional and departmental
activities of their sector.
The CNLS PES will provide, every quarter, a report on activities combating HIV/AIDS. During the
biannual meetings between the CNLS, headed by the Burundi President, a situation analysis and progress
report will be presented by the CNLS-PES high-lighting weaknesses and proposals for improved
implementation of each annual Action Plan.
Monitoring: The Project will support the design and implementation of a computerized management
information system (MIS) based in the CNLS PES, containing key technical and financial input and
process information for the project. Data to measure progress of Fund activities will be derived from
sub-project proposals and progress reports. Community inputs will provide information on the quality of
services provided and will give project activities greater transparency and accountability. Data from
sectoral strategies will be derived from sectoral plans.  Site visits by contracted supervisors will
complement this information. Field supervision will be formative, ensuring errors and omissions are
corrected on the spot. Project monitoring will also assess the project implementation team's performance
as well as the performance of the FMS and regional offices. The MIS will contain information on number
of contracts, types of activities financed, time taken to approve proposals and provide financing, amount of
financing allocated to each target group/region, etc. In addition, financial audits of the CNLS PES,
- 62 -



particularly of its Financial Section will be conducted twice a year and independent technical audits on
project as a whole.
Evaluation: Overall evaluation of the project will be focused on two levels: the general population, and
specific target groups. Where possible, available data will be analyzed to establish results and trends.
Efforts will be made to strengthen the current surveillance system. In order to measure overall impact of all
prevention activities (including those conducted by other projects) sentinel surveillance data will be used to
analyse outcome. The measurement of impact of the project will focus on emerging patterns of behavioral
change and opportunistic infections prevalence. Data from surveys will be used to measure behavioral
change and knowledge. In addition, baseline and endline behavioral surveys will be conducted in restricted
populations to measure more in-depth behavior change in specific target groups. Evaluation studies would
be subcontracted out. The CNLS PES would work closely with implementing agencies and other
contractors as counterpart to ensure adequate evaluation.
7.2    Financial Management
To insure rapid, flexible and efficient mobilization of resources to the beneficiaries of the project, the
management of the Fund will be contracted out by the CNLS to its CNLS-PES using a performance-based
contracts. A Project Implementation Manual, which will clearly define the relationship between the FMS
and the other partners of the HIV Program, has been finalized and is ready for use upon project
effectiveness. Disbursements to all applicants from civil society and the private sector as well as
government ministries, to implement their sector plans, will be processed according to the section on
Procedures of the PIM.
The PES will have a Financial Management Section (FMS), staffed with Financial Management
Specialists. The FMS will be allowed to have representatives in regions and will be responsible for (i)
processing requests for financing; (ii) approving requests under $100,000 using selection criteria; (iii)
submitting requests above $100,000 to the CNLS Permanent Executive Comnittee for approval; (iv)
disbursing approved financing; and (v) providing necessary data and information to auditors for annual
technical and financial reports, and to the CNLS PES on a regular basis. The FMS will receive training on
HIV/AIDS.
Proposals equal and under US$10,000 may be approved by the regional officers of the CNLS PES
according to agreed upon criteria, as outlined in the Procedural section of the PIM. Proposals between
U$10,000 and US$ 100,000 will be approved by the central office of the CNLS PES. Proposals over
US$100,000 will be submitted by the CNLS PES to the CNLS Permanent Executive Committee for
approval after technical review by the designated review board. In all cases, the regional offices of the
CNLS PES will be responsible for contracting the implementation of the approved project and disbursing
approved financing. At least 5% of the financing of the proposals must be provided by beneficiaries in
cash or in kind. The FMS will provide information and data to regular technical and financial audits and
conduct spot-checks on project implementation.
- 63 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
Expanding Public Sector Response to the Crisis             2.30          6.20         8.50
Increasing Participation of grass-root Organizations and   3.00          9.00    .   12.00
Communities
Orphans Integration and Education Pilot                    5.10          1.60         6.70
Strengthening the Program's Strategic formulation and      2.15          1.15         3.30
Monitoring Capacity including medical waste management plan
Project Coordination and Management                        1.75         0.75          2.50
Total Baseline Cost                                        14.30        18.70        33.00
Physical Contingencies                                    0.70          0.90         1.60
Price Contingencies                                       0.90          1.20         2.10
Total Project Costs               15.90        20.80         36.70
Total Financing Required               15.90        20.80         36.70
ff *,..5t                                3 t - - ,. $ilt 'lioif  LUS n |  US  ] iic
Works                                                        0.64           1.30         1.94
Goods                                                        4.04         12.11         16.15
Consultant's Services Audit and Training                     1.73          3.07          4.80
Grants for CSO Sub-Projects                                  7.28          2.43          9.71
Operating Costs                                              1.55          0.72          2.27
Unallocated                                                                 1.84         1.84
Total Project Costs      1 5.24        21.47         36.71
Total Financing Required      15.24         21.47         36.71
Costs in the table above are purely indicative, as actual demands made by implementation agencies and
organizations and possible contribution from other donors during program implementation will impose
reallocation.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 36.7 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 98.09% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 64 -



Annex 4
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIVIAIDS Control and Orphans Project
Economic Analysis
"As the HIV epidemic deepens in Africa, it is leaving an economically devastated continent in its wake.
For those who live and work in Africa, the impact on individual, family, and community economies is
obvious. Sickness, death, and the loss ofproductive capacity in communities where as many as one-third,
of the women in their reproductive years are HIV infected hardly needs to be supported by data. " "The
Economic Impact of AIDS in Africa" By Peter Wehrwein, (HARVARD AIDS REVIEW, Fall
1999/Winter 2000)
There are no quantitative estimates of the potential impact of HIV/AIDS on economic growth, income
distribution and poverty specifically for Burundi. However, statements such as above indicate consensus
about the devastating impact of AIDS on development in Sub-Sahara Africa, including Burundi. An
economic analysis of the impact of HIV/AIDS and cost benefit analysis of the Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS
project was prepared under the Multi-country AIDS Program and was discussed in Annex 5 of the Project
Appraisal Document of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region. International
experience provides evidence that when HIV prevalence rate start climbing above 5 percent, as in Burundi,
macroeconomic impact will be obvious.
The following paragraphs provide some insight in the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS in Burundi.
* Demography. Projection of future trends in life expectancy at birth for Burundi suggests a decline of
about 2 percent between 1995 and 2010. (U.S. Bureau of Census, International Database, 2001). This
is a reversal in past improvements which is done partly to HIV/AIDS related mortality.
* Households: AIDS impact on households results from both sickness and death. Sickness causes loss of
income of the patient and increase in medical expenses. Additionally, household members may miss
school, and household members may work less as they take care of the sick. AIDS death causes a
permanent loss of income, funeral and mourning costs, and the removal of children from school. Both
sickness and death leads to psychological burden to households as stigmatization against the disease is
very strong in most societies.
* Social Capital: In addition to the loss of physical and human capital, the loss of social capital is
obvious when the higher proportion of child or woman headed household becomes a norm in
communities. Other indicators of loss in social capital include: younger community leaders, changes in
community structures, and younger parents. Such a loss can be severe in Burundian society as they
have recently been through other social upheavals such as war.
* Agriculture Sector. Burundi is rural and agriculture is the largest productive sector as it employs more
than 95 percent of its labor force, and contributed 49.4 percent to its GDP at market price in 1998.
Coffee contributed US$44.1 million in 1998 contributing significantly to its GDP. Its production,
however, has declined precipitously since 1995, and is expected to decline during 2000/01. Immediate
and future implications of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the sector include: decreased labor available,
loss of skilled non-agricultural professionals working in rural areas (e.g. teachers, medical personnel),
loss of agricultural assets, threats to food security for households, loss of knowledge and specialized
skills in farming, natural resource management and community development, changes in family
- 65 -



structure, loss of gains recently achieved for women and girls in health, nutrition, and education,
reduced efficiency and capacity of rural institutions, and decline in community health. In Tanzania, a
woman whose husband is sick was found to spend 45% less time in agriculture than if he were healthy.
In Burkina Faso, AIDS-affected households observed a 25-50% reduction in net revenues from
agricultural production (Food and Agricultural Organization 1997).
*   The objectives of Burundi's education sector, such as to accelerate participation in order to achieve
universal primary education by 2010 and a 50 percent transfer rate from primary to secondary level,
are in jeopardy also because a large number of teachers die each year as a result of AIDS.
*   Based on a study of the costs of scaling up HIV/AIDS programs to a national level in 34 sub-Saharan
countries, HIV/AIDS program costs US$3.5 per capita when the general prevalence rate is below 5
percent. The per capita cost of HIV/AIDS program rises gradually up to US$ 10-12, as the prevalence
rate exceeds 15 percent.
*   Averting New HIV cases and costs: The target of maintaining the HIV prevalence rate at 11 percent
can avert at least 500,000 new HIV cases each year. In addition, the budgetary savings, in millions,
can be realized by averting new infections in general population. The target of maintaining the
prevalence at 11 percent will also contributing to GDP: Recent study indicates positive association
between HIV prevalence rate and reduction in economic growth rate, i.e. higher the prevalence rate
higher the reduction in GDP per capita. Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa Region, World
Bank, 2000. UNAIDS estimates that overall economic growth rate over the nrext decade is likely to be
at least 0.3 to 0.4 percentage points lower every year than it would have been without AIDS. Such a
decline in growth rate has significant long-term cumulative economic impact.
Per Capita Costs of Scaling-Up Programs and HIV Prevalence Rates
(Sub-Saharan African Countries)
Kemel Fit (Epanechnikov, h = 3.8550)
14
12  -                               0
co 10 - v
12
*~ 8
0
00             10     15     2     25     3
HIV Prevalence Rate Amnong Adult Populations
- 66 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
Years Ending
I Yearl II Year2      1 Year3    1 Year4    I Year5    I Year 6  | Year? 
Total Financing
Reqyired
Project Costs
Investment Costs            4.1        5.8        8.1       10.0        3.4                  0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.6        1.8        2.1        0.6        0.2                  0.0
Total Project Costs           4.7        7.6       10.2       10.6        3.6        0.0       0.0
,Total Financing               4.7        7.6       10.2       10.6        3.6        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDI1DA                    4.5        7.5       10.0       10.5        3.5                  0.0
Government                  0.1        0.1        0.1        0.2        0.1                  0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Other                         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      4.6         7.6       10.1       10.7       3.6        0.0        0.0
Financial Staff
With the recruitment of a Finance Manager and an Accountant, the project now has adequately qualified
staff for financial management. There was some discussion as regards further strengthening of the Finance
Section of the CNLS PES. While this might not be immediately necessary, the situation should be
monitored closely. With the several implementing agencies involved (Ministries, para-statals, NGOs and
local authorities), monitoring of financial transactions, including field visits, additional staff may be
necessary specially if project operations take off rapidly after effectiveness. Recruitment of additional staff
should be considered as soon as this appears justified.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
The PIM was reviewed and finalized during negotiations and is now being printed for distribution and use
upon effectiveness.
Accounting Software
The accountant of the CNLS Accountant has already begun prospecting several softwares available and
suitable for IDA financed projects. It was emphasized that while IDA can provide whatever information it
has on softwares used by IDA financed projects, ultimate choice of a software rest with the project
coordination. The main software that the project is currently considering are TOMPRO and SUCCESS.
The staff was encouraged to visit other IDA financed projects using these softwares and specially in
Rwanda, where three to four new projects are in the same situation and in the process of looking at both of
- 67 -



these softwares.
Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
The financial staff of the CNLS PES has been provided with the models and with explanations on the
formats and contents of the FMRs that the project will be required to submit to IDA at the end of each
quarter. While the staff seemed to have understood these, on the job coaching will be provided to further
strengthen their ability to prepare reports. The first FMR will be furnished to IDA not later than 45 days
after the end of the calendar quarter after the Effective Date and will cover the period from the incurrence
of first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter. Thereafter, each FMR
will be furnished to IDA not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and will cover such
calendar quarter. It was agreed that upon receipt of these FMRS, IDA will provide comments and
suggestions for enhancements and improvement. Once the FMRs reach a level acceptable to IDA, the
project would have the option to switch to quarterly disbursements based on FMRs. The cumulative
financial data in the FMRs, as of December 31 each year would constitute the annual financial statements
of the project and be subject to verification by extemal auditors.
External Audits
The Borrower has agreed to furnish to IDA not later than 6 months the end of each calendar year certified
of financial statements, prepared in a format acceptable to IDA and adequate to reflect the operations and
expenditures related to the Project. These financial statements, as well as the records and accounts will be
audited in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Assuming project operations take off in the second half of 2002 and that there
will be sufficient volume of transactions, the first audit of the project is likely to be for the period from
effectiveness to December 31, 2002, to be undertaken sometime in March/April 2003. There is thus
sufficient time for recruitment of auditors. IDA will be providing examples of Letter of Invitation (LOI)
and audit TORs in good time so enable the project to commence the process, before effectiveness.
Supervision
With a number diverse implementing agencies involved, financial management of this project is likely to be
fairly complicated and many issues, although discussed and agreed upon, will continue to require close
supervision and timely resolution, especially with regard to coordination. The finance team is competent to
establish the right procedures and the appropriate "up-front" actions have been addressed for ensuring
adequate financial management. Nevertheless, problems will almost certainly arise during implementation.
These will be dealt with promptly through regular contacts with Bank Teams - including from the World
Bank Office in Bujumbura - and trough intensive supervision. The overall quality of financial management
will be heavily dependant on how often and effectively IDA is able to monitor, supervise and assist the
financial team to resolve the problems quickly and appropriately.
The project will require intensive supervision, particularly at the start of the project's life. The objective of
the supervision would be to ensure: (i) quality of project coordination and implementation, including
adherence to the PIM; (ii) review of monitoring an evaluation results; (iii) financial management; (iv)
spot-check of quality and relevance of activities sub-projects financed by IDA funds; and (v) progress on
development and implementation of sector plans.
A budget of US$ 150,000 is allocated to supervise the project during the first 12 months of project
implementation. The skills required for supervision are varied, given the multisectoral nature of the project
-68 -



and the diversity of the issues surrounding HIV/AIDS. A core supervision team will be supported by
specialists on an as needed basis. For specialized inputs, the supervision team may tap into the expertise
from other donors, including UNAIDS. In addition, staff based in the World Bank Office in Bujumbura
will be closely involved in supervision missions and charged with the responsibility of ensuring follow up
between missions in close collaboration with the country's UNAIDS theme group.
Main assumptions:
Burundi will continue its road to national reconciliation and reduce security problems in the country.
Other donors will get involved in Burundi's economic recovery efforts and provide additional funding for
HIV/AIDS and other social sectors.
The economic situation will improve thereby widening the fiscal basis required for Burundi to meet its
counterpart funding responsibilities and providing many Burundians reasons for moving away from fatalism.
Public information about AIDS will continue to increase as Burundi draws from the lessons of its Uganda
neighbor.
- 69 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
Procurement
General
Burundi public procurement is governed by the decree law nl / 15 dated May 19, 1990 and the decree n°
100/ 120 of August 18, 1990. Since 1990, no CPAR has been carried out. Experience of these last years
shows that procurement regulations and procedures in Burundi do not conflict significantly with Bank
guidelines. In addition, the country's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over
any conflicting provisions in the national regulations. Thus far, the major problems encountered evolve
around the following: (i) delays in the procurement process mostly owing to inadequate procurement
planning; (ii) insufficient time given to bidders to prepare their offers despite the existence of suitable
provisions in the national regulation; (iii) propensity to use direct contracting for goods and civil work and
single source selection for services despite the fact that national competitive bidding is the default method
foreseen by the procurement regulation ; (iv) inadequate supervision of contracts execution as evidenced
among others by frequent delays in resolving disputes and conflicts.
The Govemrnent seems keen to address these weaknesses. In order to reform the present system, the
Government organized a seminar on management of public procurement in February 2001. Following a
recommendations of the seminar, a commission comprising members of private sector and public sector
was created and charged with the mandate to propose reforms of the procurement system. The commission
has already drafted a report which is expected to be presented to the cabinet meeting and to the partners
interested in public procurement in the forthcoming weeks. The government has expressed its intention to
solicit an IDF grant which could contribute to pursue and achieve the design of this reform and thereafter
facilitate its implementation.
Use of Bank Guidelines
Procurement of goods and works required for the project and to be financed from the proceeds of the credit
shall be governed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit, published in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. National
Competitive Bidding will be carried out in accordance with Burundi procurement law and regulation and
Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA. It has been agreed during the appraisal that the
procedures contained in the manual will ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and fair participation.
These procedures will specifically ensure that: (i) bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide
circulation; (ii) the bid documents clearly explain criteria for the bid evaluation and award; (iii) bidders are
given adequate response time (minimum four weeks) to prepare and submit bids: (iv) bids are awarded to
the lowest evaluated bidder and not arbitrarily; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders, are not
precluded from participation and; (vi) no domestic preference margins are applicable to domestic
manufacturers and suppliers.
Aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works, as stated in Table
A, are limitative and cannot be exceeded without IDA's prior no-objection, and the procurement unit
responsible for the project has to maintain a tracking system to monitor such procurement, alerting the
Bank in the case of non-compliance.
- 70 -



Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). The World Bank's Standard Request For Proposal (SRFP) will be used. Forms of
contracts (lump-sum, time based and/or simplified contract for short term assignment and individual
consultants) as needed, as well as the sanple evaluation report for the selection of consultants will also be
used.
Advertising
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared just after the negotiation and published before the
end of March 2002 in the United Nations Development Business. The GPN will be updated on a yearly
basis as long as ICB for works and goods contract and consultant contracts exceeding US$ 150,000
equivalent will be foreseen in the annual procurement plan. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be
required for works and goods to be procured under ICB and expression of interest (EOI) for consultant
services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more will also be published in national
newspapers of wide circulation and intemationally for large contracts.
Procurement Capacity
The project implementation would involve the Permanent Executive Secretariat (PES) of the National
AIDS Commission (hereinafter called under its French acronym "CNLS"), the Ministry of Social Affairs
for the Orphans Component of the Project, the General Directorate of Public Procurement, line ministries
and a wide range of national and intemational NGOs. The procurement assessment focused on two main
actors, namely the CNLS and the General Directorate of Public Procurement.
The procurement capacity of some key partners (particularly line ministries and NGOs) involved in the
procurement process needs to be strengthened. A procurement specialist who has more than twelve years of
experience in public procurement and IDA financed projects was hired in August 2001 by the CNLS. His
first assignment, which was to prepare the procurement manual, is about to be completed. During the first
quarter of 2002, his most important task was the design of a program aimed at strengthening the
procurement capacity of the partners (NGOs, grass root associations, and line ministries) involved in the
implementation of the project. This program would focus on the following points: (i) familiarization with
the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual particularly procurement methods and bid evaluation;
(ii) initiation to procurement planning; (iii) contract management and resolution of disagreement. NGOs
which prove unable to procure goods and services for their subprojects would be required to seek assistance
from qualified consultants. However, no genuine organization already intervening in the sectors covered by
the project should be put aside owing to its weaknesses as far as procurement is concemed.
Currently, more than two hundreds national NGO and local associations are involved in the fight against
HIV/AIDS. Their resources and capacities are very diverse as revealed by the NGO capacity assessment
undertaken during project preparation. One of the tasks of the CNLS will be to ensure that each partner
(NGOs and any other private partner) has the capacity to adequately implement the program or the
sub-project agreed upon. A component of the project is specifically aimed to reinforce implementers'
capacity to design and implement demand driven HIV/AIDS activities. Procurement is one of the areas of
intervention. As indicated above, NGOs may benefit from the assistance of qualified consultants.
- 71 -



Procurement Plan.
A draft procurement plan prepared by the Borrower during pre-appraisal was reviewed and finalized during
negotiations. This plan excludes sub-projects managed by community based associations for whom
simplified criteria for funding is incorporated in the implementation manual. It was agreed that by
November I of each year, a procurement plan for the next year will be submitted by CNLS for IDA prior
review. The procurement plans will be updated at least once a year and the progress report forwarded to
IDA will document procurement activities in an appropriate degree of detail.
For subprojects to be implemented by NGOs, civil society organizations and private sector entities, their
demand driven nature makes it difficult to finalize procurement plan for this component at this stage.
However, the appraisal document of each approved subproject will include a procurement schedule for
completing the subproject.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements.
Procurement will be the responsibility of the following institutions: (i) the General Directorate of Public
Procurement; (ii) the PES of the CNLS; and (iii) Non Govermnental Organizations, private sector
enterprises, associations and beneficiary groups
The General Directorate of public procurement would review bidding documents prepared by the CNLS
PES, conduct bids opening and awarding of contracts above the threshold required by the national
procurement regulations. The General Directorate will work closely with CNLS on the strengthening of
procurement capacity of line ministries as well as NGOs and civil society associations.
The CNLS will be responsible for all procurement activities except for those undertaken under the
Community- based Component. Its PES will prepare and update annual procurement plans, prepare
bidding documents, participate in the bid evaluations, monitor and manage the execution of contracts. The
CNLS will work closely with line ministries, notably with the unit within the MOSA in charge of the
Orphans Component in order to assist them in the definition of their needs so that the CNLS will be able to
respond quickly to their eligible requests. As already stated previously, one of the main task of the CNLS
would be the design and the supervision of a program aimed to strengthen the capacities in procurement of
the all partners involved in the implementation of the project.
Procurement for community subprojects and for private sector entities would be carried out by the
conununities themselves and the private sector entities except for items, such as condoms and drugs that
would be procured in bulk by the CNLS. Applications for subprojects would be sent to the CNLS,
including its provincial and local branches. The subprojects will be assessed as well as the capacity of the
community to implement procurement activities derived from the subproject in accordance with the criteria
established by the Project implementation manual. Communities which have no adequate competence to
conduct on their own the procurement activities; they will seek the assistance of a qualified consultant as
condition of approval of their subproject. For each contract estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
US$ 2,500, communities will be asked to send a copy of the procurement document starting from the
invitation to bid to the contract closure. These documents would be of assistance for the CNLS to facilitate
suitable monitoring of the observance of procurement procedures. In addition it will provide first hand
information for the design of the training program so that it could be tailored according to the needs of the
NGOs.
- 72 -



Procurement Methods
Civil Works. The total cost of works under the project excluding the community subprojects is estimated
at US$ 2 million equivalent. Contract for works estimated to cost US $ 300,000 equivalent or more would
be awarded through intemational competitive bidding using IDA standard bidding document. It would
include the construction of the "Centre National de Transfusion Sanguine" and construction of two
"Centres d'coute et de conseils ". Contracts for Works estimated to cost less than US$ 300,000 up to an
aggregate of US$ 500,000 equivalent will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures acceptable to IDA.
Small works would be limited to rehabilitation and small extension of existing infrastructure such as care
centers, youth facilities, and communal meeting facilities. These small works estimated to cost less than
US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 200,000 may be procured on the basis of
quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The written
invitation would include a description of the works, basic technical specifications, completion date and if
necessary the plan of the works. The contract may be awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest
quotation provided that the bid is substantially responsive to the conditions specified in the written
invitation. A simple format of the invitation to quote with all the subsequent documents (instruction to
bidders, model of contract etc.) would be included in the Project Implementation Manual.
Goods. The total cost of Goods contract is estimated at US$ 16.70 million equivalent for the project. It
would include items such as pharmaceutical products, HIV test kits, condoms, laboratory equipment,
vehicles, computers, office equipment, furniture, IEC materials and accessories. To the extent practicable,
goods and equipment would be combined in packages estimate to cost US$ 150,000 equivalent or more and
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using IDA Standard
Bidding Documents.
Contracts for drugs and pharmaceutical products estimated to cost less than US$ 300,000 equivalent up to
an aggregate of US$ 800,000 may be produced through limited international bidding. This method will be
used in the cases where there are only a few known suppliers and with Bank prior approval.
Contract for Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 150,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$ 2 million
would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard specification
commodities for individual contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate
of US$ 1.3 million, would be procured under National Shopping or International Shopping procedures as
described in paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and June 8, 2000 Memorandum-"Guidance
Procurement Note on Handling Procurement under Shopping Method"- issued by the Bank.
Goods, including drugs and medical supplies up to an aggregate of US$ 4.0 million may be procured
through United Nations Agencies (IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO) in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
HIV/AIDS testing reagent, considered as proprietary, with IDA's prior agreement, be procured by direct
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Community based procurement. Subprojects financed under components 2 and 3 would comprise a
broad spectrum of activities to be undertaken with direct participation and financial contribution of the
beneficiaries. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, small works, and services to be
- 73 -



procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Funding for these activities would be in
the form of grants. Therefore, the types of activities to be financed under subprojects and their procurement
details would depend on the needs identified by community-based organizations and civil society
organizations. The contract would be procured following simplified procurement procedures as described
in the project implementation manual (PIM). The manual to be used by the project will be based on the
Bank Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments
(February 1998). As regards orphans integration and education pilot component, financing will also depend
on applications received from communities, even if the menu of activities described in the manual should
cover most of the eligible activities if not all.
Consulting Services and training. Consulting services financed under the credit would be for HIV/AIDS
training, information, education, communication (IEC), applied research, financial management, monitoring
and evaluation, information dissemination, auditing and accounting; and strengthening of the institutional
and technical capacities.
Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, would be procured through
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). The contracts for services estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts based on Consultants'
Qualifications in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Financial and technical audit estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 100,000 may be procured
under Least Cost Selection (LCS) in accordance with the provisions of 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant
Guidelines
Consultant for services meeting the requirements of section V of the consultant guidelines, may be selected
under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants, i.e. in essence through the comparison of
the curriculum vitae of at least 3 qualified individuals. No civil servant can be hired as consultant.
Single source selection may be used exceptionally for (i) training; (ii) consulting assignment provided by
NGOs or other organization to assist provinces, communes and community subprojects and (iii) for
consultant assignment estimated to cost less than the equivalent US$ 10,000 per contract up to aggregate of
the equivalent of US$ 200,000 in accordance with paragraph 3.8 - 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists
for contracts estimated under US$ 100,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants (in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient
number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours would be carried out on the basis of
approved annual work programs that would identify the general framework of training or similar activities
for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, number of participants, and cost
estimates.
Prior Review Thresholds
Goods and civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 150,000 or more would be subject
to IDA prior review. In addition, the first three contracts of goods and the first three contracts of civil
works below the equivalent of US$ 100,000 under component one would be subject to IDA prior review.
Contract under community based procurement estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more
- 74 -



would be subject to IDA prior review. In addition, the first five contracts under community based
procurement costing less than US$ 50,000 would be subject to IDA prior review.
Consultant services, all terms of reference and all single source selections regardless of contract cost,
would be subject to IDA prior review. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000 equivalent for
individuals and more than US$ 75,000 equivalent for firms would be subject to IDA prior review
procedures. For consuitants contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, opening of
the financial envelopes would not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical
evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firms, the Borrower would notify IDA
of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals
All other goods, civil works and services contracts would be subject to post review by IDA during
supervision missions and by auditors during the technical and financial audits.
Once every six months, supervision missions will be carried out. During these missions a selective post
review of contracts awarded below the threshold will be conducted. The project activities would be subject
to annual technical audits carried out separately from financial audits.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB          Other 2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works.                           1.37              0.52          0.21          0.00        2.10
(1.30)            (0.50)         (0.20)       (0.00)       (2.00)
2. Goods                           11.55              2.10          3.36          0.00        17.01
(11.50)            (2.00)        (3.20)         (0.0)      (16.70)
3. Services                        0.00               0.00           5            0.00        5.00
and Training                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (5)         (0.00)       (5.0)
4. Grants (community               0.00               0.00          10.02         0.00        10.02
subproject)                       (0.00)             (0.00)        (10.0)        (0.00)      (10.0)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00               0.00          2.41          0.15        2.56
(0.00)            (0.00)         (2.3)        (0.00)       (2.3)
Total                           12.92              2.62          21.00         0.15        36.69
(12.80)            (2.50)        (20.70)       (0.00)      (36.00)
I Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
l
2 Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, grants
/ to communities, contribution of beneficiaries and incremental operating costs.
- 75-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services                              LCS
Expenditure Category  QCBS      QBS      SFB                 CQ      Other  N.B.F. Total Costl
A. Firms                1.80    0.00     0.00     0.30       1.00     0.20    0.00      3.30
(1.80)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.30)     (1.00)   (0.20)  (0.00)    3.30
B. Individuals          0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00     1.70    0.00      1.70
_______  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.70)  (0.00)  (1.70)
Total   1.80    0.00     0.00     0.30       1.00     1.90    0.00      5.00
______  (1.80)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (1.00)  (1.90)  (0.00)  (5.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 76 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category        (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                     > or equal to 300              ICB                All contracts > 0. 15
first three contracts <0. 1
< 300                    NCB
< 50            Lump-sum, fixed price on       Post-review
the basis of 3 quotations
2. Goods                     > or equal to 150*           ICB/LIB              All contracts > 0.15
first three contracts < 0.1
< 150                    NCB
< 100            Shopping/UN Agencies           Post-review
< 50               Direct Contracting          All contracts
< 30                   Shopping                Post review
Firms                        > or equal to 100             QCBS            All contracts equal or > 0.1
All SSS
< 100              QCBS/CQ/SSS/LC        Post-review, but all annual
training plans, study tours,
conference and workshops
to be reviewed by IDA for
approval
4. Services:
Individuals                  > or equal to 50              3 CVs              All contracts > 0.05
< 50                    3 CVs                  Post-review
Subproject                         > 50               Community based        All contract > or equal to
procurement           0.5 and the first five
contracts <0.5
< or equal to 50                                    Post-review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 13 million
* Drugs and other pharmaceuticals with few known suppliers estimated to cost less than US$ 300,000 may be procured through
LIB.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; LIB: Limited Intemationl Bidding; QCBS:
Quality and Cost Based Selection ; CQ: Consultant Qualification ; SSS: Sole Source Selection; LCS: List Cost Selection;
- 77 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be completed in four years, i.e. by June 30, 2006. The Credit's closing date
would be six months after the project completion date, i.e. December 31, 2006. While operating under
traditional disbursement procedures all disbursements will be fully documented at the time of submission of
withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against statement of expenditures (SOEs). Once the
project's financial management is deemed satisfactory enough to fulfill all the requirements for
disbursements on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), the project will have the option to
switch to report-based disbursements.
The 100 percent (net of taxes) financing by IDA credit for all disbursement categories is justified by the
fact that the country will contribute about 15 percent of the cost of the project through services rendered by
volunteers and salaries paid to civil servants. This contribution has not been tabulated in the project costs
tables.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
;Expenditure Category::   : Amount in US$million      -   Financing Percentage
I - Works                                  2.00                100% Foreign, 90% Local
2 - Goods                                  16.70                100% Foreign, 90% Local
3 - Services & Training                     5.00                  100% of expenditures
4 - Grants                                 10.00                  100% of expenditures
5 - Operating Costs                         2.30                  90% of expenditures
Total Project Costs                        36.00
Total                                      36.00          _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Contracts not subject to IDA prior review will be reimbursed against certified SOEs. Thus SOE will be
used for payment of works and goods contracts costing US$150,000 or less, for contracts of services by
firms costing US$75,000 and for services by individual consultants costing less than US$50,000; as well
as for all training, operating costs and subprojects under community driven component. A simplified format
will be used for SOEs in which expenditures are summarized by category. The documentation for
withdrawal under SOEs would be retained at the CNLS PES for review by IDA during supervision
missions and for annual audits.
Special account:
A special account in US$ will be opened and maintained in a commercial bank. The maximum amount or
authorized allocation will be equivalent to US$3,000,000. The limit on the initial deposit -US$ 1.5 million-
would be made available to correspond with projected disbursements in the first few months of project
implementation.
- 78 -



Financial Management Assessment Report
The assessment carried out during November 13-14, 2001 by a Senior Financial Management Specialist
focused on the financial management system of the CNLS PES (FM). The assessment reviewed
actions taken since previous visits with regard to key aspects of financial management of the project.
The assessment determined that there has been a very satisfactory progress on actions required for adequate
financial management of this project. A senior, adequately qualified expert in Financial Management has
been recruited and assigned to the CNLS PES. He is responsible for providing assistance to the Secretary
of the CNLS on various aspects of management of project funds, including implementation of appropriate
procedures for review of proposals, accounting systems, disbursement of project funds, and preparation of
periodic financial reports.The other key financial staff (who were identified in August 2001) have also been
recruited. They have become well familiar with the project operations, closely involved in design of internal
procedures being established and generally taken charge of FM of this project. The Finance Manager and
the Accountant have also begun to address the question of accounting system and acquisition of an
appropriate accounting software. A Project Implementation manual has been prepared and found
acceptable to IDA. With the above developments, the project will have adequate financial management
systems and procedures in place by the time of project effectiveness. Not later than 9 months after the
Effectiveness Date, the Government will submit an interim systems audit to IDA. During negotiations, it
was agreed that if this audit shows that the above arrangements have failed to result in the rapidity with
which the Project is expected to be implemented, the Government will submit an adequate plan to correct
the problem.
With a number of diverse implementing agencies involved, financial management of this project is likely to
be fairly complicated and many issues, although discussed and agreed upon, will continue to require close
supervision and need resolution, especially with regard to coordination. The intensive supervision that the
Project will require is detailed in Additional Annex 11.
- 79 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
Project$Scheidule                                                              A -Panned - :, L - ;.  . . j.ctuai .
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             01/01/2001                   01/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      11/19/2001                   11/19/2001
Negotiations                                    01/17/2002                   02/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/31/2002
Prepared by:
The project has been prepared by the Government with support from consultants and development partners.
The Burundi team included the following:
* H.E. Stanislas Ntahobari, Minister of Public Health;
* H.E. Genevieve NAKAHA SINDABIZERA, Minister in charge of coordinating the national
program against HIV/AIDS;
* Mr. Tharcisse NTIMPIRANGEZA, Advisor, Vice-Presidency;
* Mr. Sylvain NDAYIKENGURUKIYE , Chef de Cabinet, Ministry in charge of coordinating the
national program against HIV/AIDS;
* Mr. Jean RIRANGIRA, Director, Ministry of Public Health;
* Ms. Gaudence RWAMAHEKE, Director, Ministry of Social Affairs and Women
* Mr. Tharcisse RYIVUZE, Advisor, Ministry of Finance
* Mr. Renovat NDAYIRUKIYE, Advisor, Cabinet of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation;
* Mr. Edouard Ntamatungiro, Principal Advisor on Social Issues, 2nd Vice-Presidency;
* Sheikh Ntambuka Issa, Imam of Bujumbura and Representative of Burundi's religious
communities
* Dr. Joseph Wakana, Executive Secretary, CNLS;
* Mr. Laurent Tugizimana, Administrative and Financial Director, CNLS;
* Mr. Albert Mbesherubusa, Procurement Specialist, CNLS;
* Mr. Protais Goragoza, Chief Accountant, CNLS;
*   Mrs. Bemadette Mpekeyimana, HIV infected, representative of Associations in the fight against
AIDS;
* Mr. Onesphore Nduwayo, General Director of Labor, coordinator of different Ministries in the
fight against AIDS;
*   Dr. Frangoise Ndayishimiye, Representative of Women organizations and coordinator of the
project "Pour une plus Grande Implication des Personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA dans l'action
nationale de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA-GIPA";
*   Dr. Jeanine Ntibanyiha, Focal Point, UNAIDS, Representative of the UNAIDS Thematic Group;
* Mr. Ousmane Badiane, Rural Development Specialist, Consultant;
* Mr. Abdou Salam Drabo, NGO Coordination Specialist, Consultant;
* Mr. Damber Kumar Gurung, Health Economist, Consultant;
* Ms. Kristine Storholt-Hauge, Genger/Social Sector Specialist, Consultant;
* Mr. Souleymane Zerbo, Project Implementation Manual Specialist, Consultant; and
* Mr. Paul Geli, Project Implementation Manual Specialist, Consultant.
- 80 -



Preparation assistance:
Comments were provided through out the project processing by the following peers: Eva Jarawan (Lead
Health Specialist), Jonathan Brown (Operations Adviser), Bachir Souhlal (Lead Operations Specialist,
ACTAfrica); and Christopher Walker (Lead Specialist) and Peer Reviewers. Comments were also received
from Susan Opper (Senior Education Specialist); Sheila Dutta (Health Specialist, ACTAfrica);
Anne-Marie Bodo (Pharmaceuticals Specialist, Consultant); Pascal Dooh-Bill (Institutional Implementation
Specialist, Consultant); Jerome Chevallier (Operations Specialist, Consultant); John-Stephen Osika (Senior
Health Specialist, Consultant); Michael Azefor (Senior Health Specialist); and Serigne Omar Fye (Senior
Environmental Specialist).
A Japan PHRD Grant for US$682,400 (TF026706) was received and assisted in the preparation of the,
Project.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Malonga Miatudila,                 Senior Public Health Specialist, Task Team Leader
Michael Azefor                     Senior Public Health Specialist
Pamphile Kantabaze                 Senior Operations Officer
Abdul Haji                         Senior Financial Management Specialist
Iraj Talai                         Lead Financial Management Specialist
Prosper Nindorera                  Procurement Officer
Francesco Samo                     Lead Procurement Specialist
Susan Opper                        Senior Education Specialist
Menahem Prywes                     Senior Human Resources Economist
Isabella Micali-Drossos            Senior Counsel
Michael Fowler                     Senior Disbursement Officer
Serigne Omar Fye                   Senior Environmental Specialist
Mathurin Gbetibouo                 Burundi Resident Representative
Anne Anglio                        Language Program Assistant
Nellie Sew Kwan Kan                Language Program Assistant,
Leoncie Niyonahabonye              Program Assistant
Eva Jarawan                        Lead Health Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Jonathan Brown                     Operations Adviser, Peer Reviewer
Bachir Souhlal                     Lead Operations Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Christopher Walker                 Lead Specialist, Peer Reviewer
- 81 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires
*   Mission # I (May 28-June 12, 2001)
* Mission #2 (November 14-24, 2001)
* Mission # 3 (February 18-27, 2002)
PHRD Studies
"Institutional Assessment" conducted by IDEC;
"Enquete socio comportementale sur l'infection par le VIHISIDA au Burundi" (April 2001: conducted by
CEFORMI).
C. Other
* Burundi: Le Genre et le VIH-SIDA, UNIFEM-PNUD;
*   Plan Strategique national de Lutte contre le VIHI/SIDA et les MST, 1999-2003, Ministere de la Sante
Publique;
* Enquete Socio-Comportementale sur l'Infection par le VIH/SIDA au Burundi, Avril 200, CEFORMI,
Ministere de la Sante Publique;
* Plan d'Action National de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA, 2002-2006, Consultation Thematique, Burundi;
* Projet multisectoriel de Lutte contre le SIDA au Burundi, Ministere de la Sante Publique, Janvier 2001
*   Decret No 100/077 du 18 Juillet 2001 portant cr6ation, organisation et conctionnement du Conseil
national de Lutte contre le SIDA (CNLS), Cabinet du President, Republique du Burundi;
* Decret No 100/078 du 18 Juillet 2001 portant nomination des membres du Conseil national de Lutte
contre le SIDA (CNLS), Cabinet du President, Republique du Burundi;
*    "Analyse de la Situation Sociale des Orphelins", financed by the Norwegian Education Trust Fund.
*Including electronic files
- 82 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
07-Dec-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                        disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA                       Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P065789      2001 Regional Trade Fac. Prol. - Burundi           0.00     7.50                         0.00     7.34      0.79     0.00
P064961      2001 PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION          0.00    40.00                         0.00    37.78     -1.86     0.00
P064556      2000 BI-EERC                                       0.00    35.00                         0.00     1.95    -12.21     0.00
P064510      2000 81-Bursap II                                 0.00     12.00                         0.00     8.72      2.48     0.00
P000216      1995 HEALTH/POPULATIONII                           0.00    21.30                         0.00     3.02      5.30     1.49
Total:      0.00     115.80                        0.00     58.81     -5.50     1.49
BURUNDI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval             Company                             Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
2000                    AEF V&F Export                       0.44      0.00      0.00      0.00      0,44      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:              0.44       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.44     0.00       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
2001                   AEF Florex                               0.28        0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                0.28        0.00        0.00        0.00
- 83 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Burundi     Africa  Income      Development dlamond
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      6.8       659     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                   110       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     0.75      313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population %)2.0                                                2.8      1.9     GNI                            Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.4       2.6      2.4     per                           pross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povertV line)
Urban population (% of total population)               9        34        32
Life exoectancy at birth (years)                      42        47        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1 000 live births)             105        92        77
Child malnulrition (% of children under 5)                                            Access to Improved waler source
Access to an improved water source N% of population)   ..       55        76
Illiteracy (% of population aqe 15+)                  52        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  51       78        96                 'Burundl
Male                                                55        85       102              -Low-Income group
Female                                              46        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                          0.92      1.1      0.71     0.69
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                13.9     14.5       9.1      9.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            8.8      7.9       8.8      9.0
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                  -0.6     -5.4      -0.4     -5.6
Gross national savings/GDP                                               9.5
Current account balance/GDP                 -9.3    -11.1      -3.6     -7.4      Domestic                  Investment
Interest payments/GDP                       0.2      1.1        0.9      1.4     savings
Total debtUGDP                              18.0     80.1     158.4    161.7     s
Total debt servicelexports                   9.4     43.6      45.1     42.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                      94.8
Present value of debtlexports                                1061.0
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999     2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.4     -2.6     -1.0       0.3      2.7                  Burundl
GDP per caoita                      1.5     4.7     -2.9       -1.6      0.8                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.4     7.9     35.9      31.7      10.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Inveastment and GOP I%)
(X of GDP)                                                                       50
Agriculture                                 62.2     55.9      52.2     50.7
lndustrv                                    12.6    19.0      17.3      18.5
Manufacturing                              7.4     12.9       8.7                                 _
Services                                    25.1     25.2      30.5     30.8                            98    99   00
Private consumption                         91.4    94.5      84.4      92.6     Oso
General government consumotion               9 2     10.8      16.1     13'0    L              GDl       S   GDP
Imports of goods and services              23.3     27.8       18.3     2386
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exporta and Imports (%)
(average annual.growth)
Agriculture                                  3.1    -1.6       -3.0      3.8    150 ..
Industry                                    4.5     -5.6        7.2      4.1    100
Manufacturing                              5.7     -8.0      12.3
Services                                    5.6     -2.0        3.0      3.5     50
Private conSUmptiOn                         3.4     -4.5      - 1.9      4.8
General government consumption              3.2     -2.1       15.0    -22.727 s
Gross domestic Investment                   6.9     -0.4      10.9       8 5                 L-xports    *  Imports
Imports of goods and services                1.5     1.1      13.0      40.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show tour kev Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group averaae, If data are missing. the diamond will
- 84 -



Burundi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation(
Domestic Prlces                                                                   40
(% change)
Consumer prices                              9.5      7.0       3.5      15.5    30
Implicit GDP deflator                        16.4     6.0       3.4      22.9    20
Government finance                                                               10
(X of GDP, Includes current grants)                                               0
Current revenue                              14.4    17.9      18.3      19.0            95    9E    97   B9    D9     0
Current budget balance                       2.4      2.9      -3.0       0.4             -     GDP deflator  O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      6.1     -7.9       -7.6     -2.1
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           66       73        56       43      50
Coffee                                      58       52        44        47     200
Tea                                           2       8         a        14     20
Manufactures                                  1       4         1         1      90   *
Total imports (cif)                          168      226       118      144     1oo        _.*
Food                                         1 8     1 2        1 1      1 1_             _     *    _    _    _
Fuel and energy                             25       30         19       20      o_
Capital goods                               33       80         52       59      o
94   90   De   97   99    99   00
Export Price Index (1995 100)                  ..
Imoort orice Index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        ..        ..              * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Currant account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 81       89        62       48      2 -
Imports of aoods and aervices                214      315       129      149
Resource balance                            -133     -225       -68     -101      o
Net Income                                     2      -15        -9      -13     -2                   7
Net current transfers                         45      114        51       63
Current account balance                      -86     .126       -26      -51     -                          I
Financing Items (net)                         77      124        12       34
Changes In net reserves                        8        2        14       17     .D
Memo:
Reserves Includina gold (USS millons)         ..
ConversIon rate (DEC. loceVtUSS)            90.0    171.3      563.6    720.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    CompositIon of 2000 dabt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         166      907      1.131    1.114
IBRD                                         0        0         0        0                    G.65
IDA                                         37      398       599      614                F: I
6:142
Total debt service                             9       42        29       21
IBRD                                         0        0         0        0
IDA                                          0        4        12       13
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                              39      135        60        .         D85614
Officlal creditors                          38       74         6       27
Private creditors                           -S3      -          0        0
Foreign direct Investment                    0        1         0    _
Portfolio eauity                             0        0         0                            C: 7
World Bank program
Commitments                                 38       73        12       35      A - IBRD                    6 - Bilateral
Disbursements                               12       49        15       36      B-IDA    0- Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                         0        1         8        9      C - IMF                     G - Short-tem
Net flows                                   12       48         8       28
Interest Payments                            0        3         5        4
Net transfers                               11       45         3       23
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                     10/9/01
- 85 -



Additional Annex 11: Supervision Plan
BURUNDI: Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control and Orphans Project
1. General Supervision Strategy
The project will require intensive supervision. A budget of US$ 150,000 is allocated to supervise the
project during the first 12 months of project implementation. This multisectoral operation will be
implemented by a wide range of entities at the national, intermediary, and local levels. There will be a need
to strengthen capacity of the implementing agencies, as most of them have been established only recently.
Many issues, although discussed and agreed upon, will continue to need close attention, especially with
respect to the coordinating role of CNLS.
The skills required for supervision are varied, given the multisectoral nature of the project and the diversity
of issues surrounding HIV/AIDS. It is, therefore, proposed to establish a core supervision team, enhanced
by specialists and other inputs on an as needed basis. The supervision requirements will be especially high
at the start of the project, during the first two years. The core supervision team will be in the field at least
twice a year and would rely on UNAIDS theme group partners for supervision of activities during and
between missions. A supervision mission would take, on average, three weeks, and include at least four
people. Specialized inputs will be provided as required. Task team leaders of related sectoral projects will
be asked to devote at least half a day during each of their supervision mission on the MAOP.
At the same time, the core supervision team will rely heavily on the technical inputs and collaboration of its
partners in the UNAIDS theme group and the team may tap into UNAIDS expertise for the specialized
inputs.
Project progress reviews will be held annually to assess the performance of the project and its contribution
to the national effort to reduce the spread and impact of HIV/AIDS. They will be held jointly with the
CNLS and the UNAIDS thematic group. Reports by the Monitoring and Evaluation Teams, which will
conduct site visits, will form the basis of the discussions.
Progress Reviews would include a presentation by the CNLS PES on progress attained, problems
encountered, and future steps. A progress report will be prepared for annual review attendees to be
distributed at least one week prior to the meetings. The presentation will employ data derived from both the
project MIS and observations made by Monitoring and Evaluation Teams. Other information available at
the time, including studies conducted by the project or other donors will also be employed. Progress
reviews will culminate in stakeholder meetings that will form a basis for re-planning for the next two years.
These meetings will be used to share information on trends, best practices and to provide general technical
information.
In addition to its Burundi partners, the Bank's will also include representatives of Burundi's UN
development community who are active in the fight against HIV/AIDS, many of whom are members of the
UNAIDS Theme Group, but also bilateral, NGO, and private sector groups. Partners will be invited to
participate in supervision missions to ensure complementarities of interventions, build strong partnerships
and facilitate cross-fertilization of experiences.
- 86 -



2. Supervision Objectives
The core team will be primarily responsible for the review of: (i) quality of project coordination and
implementation, and adherence to Project implementation manual; (ii) monitoring and evaluation results;
(iii) financial management, including procurement procedures, and technical and financial audits; (iv)
spot-check quality and relevance of sub-projects carried out by CSOs; and (v) progress on sector plan
development and implementation.
3. Supervision Requirements
Core team:
The core team would consist of staff from Headquarters and from the Bank Group's Office in Burundi.
The following skills would be included: (i) task team leader; (ii) implementation/operations specialist; (iii) a
procurement specialist; (iv) a financial management/private sector specialist; (v) community participation
specialist; and (v) team counterpart in Burundi. The operations specialist based in the field will focus
specifically year-round on assisting CNLS in its coordinating and facilitating role. During the first two
years, a monitoring and evaluation specialist should be part of the core-teanm.
For the first and second years, 24 Headquarter staff weeks and 20 Country office staff weeks are planned
for the core team; to be gradually reduced in the third and fourth year.
Enhanced specialists and additional supyort:
The core team will be enhanced by other specialists on an as needed basis, and at the discretion of the task
team leader. These specialists would be responsible for the following: (i) within the context of the sector
programs (i.e., education, health, uniformed men, transport) review the sectoral ministry plans and
supervision of status and progress of the plans; (ii) quality of IEC activities as a whole; and (iii) occasional
in-depth review of particular subprojects focusing on specific target groups.
For the first year, eight Headquarter staff weeks and ten Country office staff weeks are planned on an
ad-hoc basis; to be reduced to six and eight respectively for the second year, and four and six respectively
for the last two years. Collaboration will be sought with the TTLs of relevant sectoral projects to provide
time on MAOP during each supervision mission in the field.
- 87 -



I



MAP SECTION






2'8-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~030310
I LkeR             W    A   N   D   A
.~  Kivu
uka[ v   'vu                      '   ooi
Butore                      kNyak/nozi
BRUNDIs
Uvira     Y5, J     V    1\( zV,< r  fl  v   ,-        1, 
o   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                            /                          b,d
®   NATIONAL CAPiTAL                      .                                 -.T AN ZA NI A
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES         4_'>,
-'IVRIERS            .l                    \/              
430                                                                                                               -3
DEOCRATIC REPUBLICA
This mop was produced by the                   1111 !   i 
Map Design Unit of The World Bonk.  O F C ON GO  k 
The boundaries, colors, denominations
map do not imply, on the part of The  C A                                                        NKILOMETER
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES_____________
T World Bank Group, any judgment an
c     the legal status of any territory, or any  OFCONG
_    endorsement or occeptance of such
;0                                                                                   0           25          50   MILE280  S3 1
'0   oudris









IMAGING
Report No.          22918  BU
Type:     PAD



