Report No. 23253
Report No: I071371 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/26/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BURUNDI         Project ID: P071371
Project: Multisectoral HIV-AIDS Control and Orphans Project       Task Team
Leader: Malonga Miatudila
Appraisal Date: November 12, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: February 5, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 36.00
Managing Unit: AFTH4     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS; SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Multisectoral HIV/AIDS control and Orphans Project (MAOP) would
support the implementation of Burundi's Program, as set forth in its
"Action Plan for the Struggle Against HIV-AIDS for the period 2002-2006"
and summarized in Annex 2A. The development objectives of both the
Program and the Project are to:
Slow the spread of HIV-AIDS in the general population; and
Mitigate the damage of HIV-AIDS on individuals and families.
These objectives would be attained through multi-sectoral actions that
involve all line ministries and engage civil society, including religious
organizations, private enterprises, labor unions, farmers,women, youth and
students' associations, people living with HIV-AIDS (PLHA), and other non
governmental organizations (NGOs).
I.A.3. Project Description:
To slow the spread of HIV-AIDS and mitigate its impact on individuals and
families, the project would have the following components:
Component 1: Strengthening Public Sector response to the crisis (IDA US$ 9
million).
This component would support a major expansion of HIV-AIDS activities
implemented by public sector entities. Under the national Program, all
ministries are expected to develop and implement specific sectoral
HIV-AIDS strategies. The project will accelerate this process by: (i)
supporting the development by each sector of their HIV-AIDS control
strategy and action plan, targetting the population and/or domains
relevant to their sector; and (ii) financing activities which have been
selected to carry out sectoral strategies. Activities will cover a wide
range of prevention, mitigation and capacity building actions as set forth
in the National Plan (see Annex 2A). Some of these may involve public
sector contracting of service delivery to civil society groups or
associations.
Component 2: Increasing participation of grass-root organizations and
communities (IDA US$ 13 million).
This component is designed to increase HIV/AIDS control activities
initiated and implemented by grass-root organizations and communities, in
the areas of prevention, mitigation and capacity building proposed in the



National Strategic Plan. Initiatives of private sector enterprises to
develop and implement prevention and mitigation strategies designed for
their employees and their families will also be promoted and supported.
Proposals will be assessed against eligibility criteria, norms and
standards for implementation which have been defined in an Operational
Manual. Funds will be granted directly to associations, religious
organizations, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based
organizations. Grants recipients' responsibilities will be embodied in
contractual agreements signed before works start.
Component 3: Orphans Integration & Education, (IDA US$ 7 million).
The Component would: (i) support the placement of orphans with their
extended family; or, when impossible, with an unrelated family; (ii)
provide scholarships for primary education for orphans aged 6 to 10; (iii)
strengthen the economic and nutritional well being of families that care
for orphans through investments to supplement nutrition (such as gardening
and small livestock) and income-generating activities; and (iv) provide
training for the informal job market to older adolescent orphans. To
ensure integration in the community, services to orphans will be delivered
by community organizations such as faith-based communities, community
development committees, or mothers' committees. These organizations will
receive support from consulting companies, or domestic and national NGOs
with expertise in work with children.
Component 4: Strengthening the Program Strategic Formulation, Monitoring
and Evaluation Capacity (IDA US$ 4 million)
This component is designed to reinforce the capacity of public and private
agencies in the design, implementation and monitoring and evaluation of
HIV-AIDS control activities. More specifically, capacity-building support
will consist of the following sub-components: (i) strengthening capacity
of the CNLS to promote, coordinate, monitor and evaluate HIV-AIDS control
activities performed by various sectors and agencies; (ii) articulation of
sector strategies to combat HIV-AIDS; (iii) epidemiological surveillance;
(iv) research; and (v) technical training of a wide range of
professionals, including but not limited to, health professionnals
communication specialists and social workers.
Component 5: Project management, (IDA US$ 3 million)
This component aims to ensure efficient coordination of the project's
HIV/AIDS control activities by all concerned parties. While several
agencies will benefit from the Credit and will execute project activities,
the CNLS will have overall responsibility for project management. The
multisectoral nature of the proposed operation makes adequate coordination
and monitoring of activities an essential element for successful project
implementation. To that end, the project would support CNLS in its project
management role by financing office equipment; some operational costs, and
short and long-term technical assistance to support project management
activities.
Components:
1. Strengthening Public Sector Response to the HIV-AIDS crisis
- 2-



2. Increasing Participation of grass-root organizations and communities
3.Orphans Integration and Education
4. Strengthening Program Stragetic Formulation and Monitoring Capacity
5. Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
AIDS Control activities will be carried out nation wide. Condoms will be
distributed throughout Burundi and most health facilities will be provided
with drugs, reagents, syringes and needles to ensure care of people
infected with HIV/AIDS.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: This project has been categorized as a B due to the potential
impacts of medical waste. Instead of preparing an environmental analysis,
it was decided to prepare a Medical Waste Management Plan for Burundi. The
Plan will be available prior to project effectiveness. A ESDS dated
05/07/2001 as a Category C has been signed and disclosed on 05/09/2001.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The safeguard issue associated with this project pertains to the potential
environmental and social impacts of medical waste generated under the
proposed project. Diagnosis of medical conditions, care of people infected
with HIV or other Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) will be based on
use of reagents, needles, gloves, drugs and other pharmaceutical supplies.
In addition, the control of sexual transmission of HIV will call for the
extensive use of condoms.
-3-



II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not Applicable
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not Applicable
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
-4-



Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Malonga Miatudila        11/12/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt/Person/World Bank
11/12/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         11/12/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Arvil Van Adams 11/12/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I071371.txt
January 7, 2002 10:55 AM
-5-



