Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4876 BY 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 16, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4876 BY 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 16, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Social Infrastructure Development Project (the “Original 
Project”). 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Loan Agreement, provided that 
these terms are not defined in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of fifteen million United States Dollars 
(US$15,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the First Deputy Prime Minister.  
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
First Deputy Prime Minister 
Council of Ministers 
House of Government 
Minsk, 220010 
11 Sovetskaya Street  
Republic of Belarus 
 
Facsimile: 
 
375 17 2226665 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Page  5
-
4
-
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Minsk, Republic of Belarus, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BELARUS 
 
By: /s/ Valeri Nikolayevich Koreshkov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Craig Bell 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the functional and health environments 
of social sector facilities (schools, hospitals, kindergartens and retirement houses, etc.) 
with particular emphasis on reducing energy consumption. 
 
The Project consists of all parts of the Original Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A.
 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. 
 
DEE of the State Committee on Standardization of the Borrower is responsible 
for the overall oversight of the Project
The Borrower, through the DEE, with the assistance of the PMU, shall oversee 
the overall Project implementation and management with due diligence and efficiency. 
2. 
PMU is responsible for the overall day-to-day implementation and management 
of the Project
The PMU, the Investment and Consultative Unitary Enterprise 
“Belinvestenergosberezhenie”, shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the 
Project, including consolidated financial and procurement management and other Project-
related tasks.  
3. Operations 
Manual
The Borrower, through the DEE, shall cause the PMU to take actions required to 
ensure that the Operations Manual is applied and followed at all times in the 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Project.  
 
4.
 
Environmental Management Plan
The Borrower, through the DEE, shall take measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Page  8
-
7
-
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each six (6) month period, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project covering the six (6) month period, starting with the six (6) month period, in which 
the disbursements occur, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services. 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the provisions set forth in this Section 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent and goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least-Cost Selection 
 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
 
(c)  Single-source Selection 
 
(d)  Individual Consultants 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior/Post Review.   
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
 
(1) 
Goods, Works and 
 
Consultants’ 
Services for the 
Project 
 
14,962,500 
 
100% 
(2)  
Front-end Fee 
 
37,500 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 3.01 of the 
General Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
15,000,000
Page  11
-
10
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars
*
)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning May 15, 2013
625,000 
through November 15, 2024
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.08 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“DEE” means the Department of Energy Efficiency in the Borrower’s State 
Standardization Committee responsible for carrying out state policies for energy 
savings and executing state supervision over the rational use of fuel and heat and 
electric energy in accordance with a Decree of the President of the Borrower No. 
289, dated May 5, 2006 and a Resolution No. 981, dated July 31, 2006 of the 
Council of Ministers of the Borrower. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007).  
 
6. 
“PMU” means the “Investment and Consultative Unitary Enterprise”, also known 
as “Belinvestenergosberezhenie”, established in accordance with a Regulation 
No. 1311, dated October 3, 1997 and a Resolution No. 981, dated July 31, 2006 
of the Council of Ministers of the Borrower, which is responsible for the overall 
implementation and management of the Project. 
 
7. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement (Loan Number 7056 
BY) for Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project dated September 26, 2001 
between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Loan Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 31, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
