                                        Document o f
                                   The World Bank

                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                     ReportNo: 40179-BY




                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                  PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

                       INTHEAMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION

                                            TO

                            THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS

                                        FOR THE

             SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURERETROFITTINGPROJECT

                                    November 5,2007




SustainableDevelopment Department
Belarus, MoldovaandUkraine Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective August 30,2007)
                     CurrencyUnit = US$
                              US$ = 2,15 1S O Belarusian Rubles

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1    - December31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CER   Certified Emission Reductions
EED   Energy Efficiency Department
EMP   Environmental Management Plan
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
PMU   Project Management Unit




                    Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
         Country ManagerDirector:        Paul Bermingham
                    Sector Manager:      Charles Feinstein
                Task Team Leader::       Pekka Salminen


                                    2

                                                                                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                  Table of Contents


          .
         2. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING..............5
          1    INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT............................................................................                       -5

         3.    PROPOSEDCHANGES.............................................................................................            7
         4     CONSISTENCYWITHCAS                 .................................................................................... -9
         5..
                                                                     ................................................................. 10
         7. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES........................................................................................
         6. APPRAISAL OF SCALE-UPPROJECT
               ECONOMICANALYSIS......................................................................................... 10


         8. BENEFITSAND RISKS........................................................................................... 13            13

         9.    FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONSFORTHEADDITIONAL
               FINANCING.............................................................................................................  14




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                                 3


                             PROJECTPAPERDATA         SHEET




Borrower: Belarus
Responsibleagency: BelInvestEnergoSberezhenije(PMU)

FY           FY08            FY09             FYlO            FY11
Annual             3.O            5.0              5.0        2.0




Bank policies?


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes:
The objectives of the project remain the same: The project's objective is to improve the
functional and health environments of social sector facilities, with particular emphasis
on reducing energy consumption. The project will retrofit social sector facilities to
encourage a more effective use of resources, reducing operation and maintenance costs
inschools, hospitals, medical and other selected social facilities such as orphanages, and
community homes for the elderly and disabled.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies? No
                               For Additional Financing
[XILoan []Credit [3 Grant
For LoansKreditdGrants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.):            15.0 million
       Proposedterms:                          IBRDLoan
                                Financing Plan (US$m.)
                 Source                          Local          Foreign         Total
Borrower                                           3.9                           3.9
IBRD/IDA                                                          15.0           15.0
Others
Total                                              3.9            15.0           18.9




                                            4


                          1. INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT


1.1     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide
additional financing in an amount of US$ 15.0 million to Belarus for the Social
Infrastructure RetrofittingProject (P044748) LoanNumber 7056-BY.

1.2     The proposed additional loan would be usedto complete the rehabilitation of the
original investment program for energy efficiency improvements in social sector
buildings (schools and hospitals) across Belarus. Higher than estimated bidprices on the
energy efficiency improvements due to the strong Euro and increases inwages inBelarus
forced the implementing agencies to reduce the number of buildings covered in the
original project. The cost overrun estimate is about US$6 million. Additional energy
efficiency retrofitting in about 140 buildings (schools and hospitals) across Belarus shall
be implemented for an additional US$ 9 million, including required consultants and
support to the project management unit (PMU). The PMU has been funded from the
government energy efficiency budget.

1.3     There will be no co-financing from other donors for this particular project.
Subject to Belarus' ratification of Kyoto Protocol, emission reductions achieved through
energy efficiency measures will be eligible for trade under the Clean Development
Mechanism and could provide an additional income stream to be used to finance
activities funded within and beyond the scope of this Energy Efficiency Program in
Belarus.




2. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING


2.1     Project Development Objectives and Scope: The original loan for US$22.6
million for the Social Infrastructure Retrofit Project was approved in June 2001, and
became effective on December 26, 2001. The project development objective is to
improve the functional and health environments of social sector facilities, with particular
emphasis on reducing energy consumption. The project will retrofit social sector facilities
to encourage a more effective use of resources, reducing operations and maintenance
costs in schools, medical and other selected social facilities such as orphanages, and
community homes for the elderly and the disabled. These objectives would be achieved
by financing (a) retrofitting of education, healthand other selectedsocial sector buildings


                                             5

with energy efficiency measures, and (b) technical assistance and project management.
The project objectives are still the same.

2.2     Project Performance to Date: Project implementation started slowly mainly
because of a delay inemploying the design and supervision consultant, which delayedthe
project implementation by about one year.        The project implementation has been
satisfactory. All project componentsare proceeding satisfactorily.


    (a)      Heat substation improvements: The target of the original project was to
    replace 541 heating substations in schools and hospitals heated by district heating in
    different cities in Belarus. As of October 2007, 519 substations have been replaced
    and the existing contracts include completion of the remaining 22 substations by end-
    November 2007. At that time all planned 541 substations will be replaced with
    modern energy efficient heating substations.

    (b)      Boiler Improvements: The boiler component has been more challenging and
    slow inprogress for many reasons. The originaltarget was to replace 42 boiler houses
    with modern gas-fired or bio-fuel boilers. The current contracts which are under
    implementation include completion o f 27 boiler houses of which 16 have been
    completed. The remaining 11 boiler houses will be completed by end-2007. One
    biddingpackage was cancelled becauseof lack of funds and will be financed with the
    additional financing.

    (c)      Window replacements: The original target was to replace windows in 28
    buildings of which 24 buildings have been completed. Windows inone building have
    been replaced with local funds and 3 buildings had to be excluded from the existing
    contracts because of lack of funds. They will be financed with the additional
    financing.

    (d)     Demonstration sites: The original project included 2 bidding packages for
    demonstration sites where several energy efficiency measures would be implemented.
    Because of lack of funds only one bidding package could be contracted for 6
    buildings out of which 4 are completed and 2 will be completed inNovember 2007.
    The original target was 12 buildings. The remaining 6 buildings will be completed
    with the additional financing.

    (e)     Energy efficient lighting: The lighting component, replacement o f old
    inefficient lighting systems with modern energy efficient lighting in232 buildings has
    beenfully completed. The originaltarget was 202 buildings.

    (0      Institutional Support Component: the PMU is performing satisfactorily, and
    i s staffed with competent personnel, who are familiar with Bank procedures.
    Procurement has beenprogressing satisfactorily. The PMU submits routine progress
    andfinancial managementreports inatimely manner.

2.3     Implementation progress (IP) and Development Objective (DO) ratings for the
project have been satisfactory. The audit reports have been found satisfactory and the


                                            6

project has not had any environmental, social or other safeguard problems. As o f October
2007, disbursement had reached US$19.5 million, about 86% o f the loan, and the
contracted amount i s 100%o f the existing loan amount.

2.4     Counterpart financing was delayed in 2007 because the source o f the funds has
been changed from the Innovation Fund (surcharge on gas price) to the National
Development Fund. The funds were made available only in September 2007, which has
partlycaused the delay incompletion o fthe last contracts becausethe local portion o fthe
contracts (40%) could not be paid in a timely manner. The Belarusian counterpart
confirmed that the counterpart financing for energy efficiency projects will be properly
secured inthe state budget for the following years. Similar delays are not expected to take
place inthe future.

2.5    Rationale for the Borrower's Request: The Belarus government realizes the
importance o f energy efficiency measures as a tool to reduce energy intensiveness and
dependency on energy import and at the same time improve the heating and lighting
service quality inside buildings. Belarus has a national energy efficiency program which
has invested in energy efficiency improvements about US$1 billion within 5 years. The
energy import prices have increased in Belarus in 2006 and 2007, for instance the price
for natural gas has increased from about US$50 to about US$120 per 1,000 m3.




                               3. PROPOSED CHANGES


3.1    The objective of the proposed program will remain in line with the original
development objective o f the Social Infrastructure Retrofit Project. Continued energy
efficiency improvements in schools and hospitals and social buildings are very much in
line with the government's priorities. The proposed project scope will comprise the
following main components:

       (a)     Energy Efficiency Measures (US$ 14.08 million) in schools and
       hospitals: The additional financing will be used to finance similar improvements
       as in the original project. Typical measures are: window replacement; wall and
       roof insulation; heat substation replacement; boiler replacement; and energy
       efficient lighting.

       (b)     Consultancy Services (US$ 0.88 million): The PMU has been involved
       in the project to provide technical and monitoring services with the help of
       consultants financed under the loan. The consultancy services shall continue
       under the additional financing for: (i)project feasibility studies, design and
       supervision, (ii) monitoring and evaluation, and (iii) financial audits. The
                                                             annual
       PMUshall be funded from the government energy efficiency budget.


                                            7

3.2    The estimated cost are shown inthe following table:

                EstimatedProjectCosts andFinancing(US$ million)

       Component        I    Cost estimate    ICounterpartfinancing Additionalfinancing
                                                                   I
Energy efficiency
improvements insocial            17.61                 3.53               14.08
sector buildings

Consultancy services
including financial              1.10                  0.22                0.88
audits

PMUoperating costs               0.18                  0.18

Front-end Fee                    0.04                    -                 0.04

Total                            18.93                 3.93               15.00



3.3    Summary of other changes are inthe following table:

                    Summarvof Other ComdementarvChanges




                                          8

                            4. CONSISTENCYWITH CAS


4.1     The proposed program i s also consistent with the draft Country Assistance
Strategy FY08-10, which aims to: (i)   support Belarus' efforts in delivering public goods
and social services to the vulnerable segments o f the population (ii) continue addressing
issues o f global concern; and (iii)provide flexible, focused AAA in selected areas
supporting the liberalization o f the economy. By improving the energy efficiency o f
social service buildings (schools, hospitals, orphanages, homes for the elderly), the
additional financing will reduce heating costs and heating emissions, and thus reduce the
drain on public resources.     It will also improve comfort levels in heated schools,
orphanages, homes for the elderly and hospitals. The Bank continues to emphasize the
need for attention to limiting the risks that the energy sector poses for macroeconomic
and fiscal sustainability, and assuring that the energy needs o f the economy are met
satisfactorily.   In addition, the government also aims to improve the technical
performance, governance and financial viability o f the energy sector; and to upgrade
national infrastructure. The main aim o fthe proposed additional financing is to enable the
government to complete the original scope o f the project and to scale up energy
efficiency improvements to include lighting in schools, energy efficiency improvements
in additional schools and hospitals across Belarus. Continued energy efficiency
improvements in schools and hospitals are in line with the priorities o f the government.
Important results have been attained-the       energy intensity of the country has been
gradually decreasing. In the past five years investments in energy efficiency accounted
for about US$1.17 billion, leadingto the reduction in energy intensity by 25 percent.




                                             9

                               5. ECONOMICANALYSIS


5.1      The main justification for the additional financing is to complete the substantial
investment undertaken with Bank financing by rehabilitating the social infrastructure
investments including: (i)  lightingsystems, (ii)replacement o f windows, (iii)
                                                                              replacement
o f boiler plants, and (iv) modern heating substations.

5.2      At appraisal (in2000) the project economic rate o f return was 24.4%, calculated
withthe economic price for natural gas o fUS$60/1000 cubic meter.

5.3      The economic environment in Belarus has changed since appraisal with the main
differences being: (i)investment costs have increased due to the strong Euro and
increases in wages in Belarus, (ii)also energy prices (gas, electricity) have increased
especially during 2006 and 2007 resulting in higher benefits on energy efficiency
investments. The current border price for gas i s about US$100/1000 cubic meters. The
economic analysis is calculated with the gas price o f US$120/1000 cubic meters.

5.4      Based on the same methodology calculated with current investment costs and
energy prices the economic rate o f return i s estimated to be 24.7%, which i s about the
same as at the appraisal o fthe original project.




                       6. APPRAISAL OF SCALE-UPPROJECT

6.1      Technical: The original project has retrofitted many hospitals and schools;
however the number o f remaining buildings requiringenergy efficiency measures i s large
and remains a priority for the Government. The project scale up will implement energy
efficiency improvements at schools and hospitals across Belarus, consistent with the
respective plan developed by the Energy Efficiency Department (EED) and the PMU in
consultation with the Bank. Thus, the scale up scope includes about 140 educational
facilities (schools, kindergartens, other), health facilities (hospitals, polyclinics) and
social buildings. The EED will identify the specific sites for energy efficiency
improvements under the project inconsultation with the PMU andthe Bank.




                                             10

6.2      Financingplan: The financing plan for the additional financing is shown inthe
table above indicating the need for additional financing for the proposed energy
efficiency measures. The government has committed to provide counterpart financing in
an amount o f US$3.9 million.

6.3      Social: There are no issues related to land acquisition, resettlement or social
safeguards inthe project. The building efficiency improvements undertaken have already
demonstrated positive social impacts and the project i s expected to widen such impacts
through the additional financing and scale up o fthe scope.

6.4      Institutional:The existing arrangements include a PMU with staff and facilities
financed by the        Government's    Energy Efficiency Department for day-to-day
management o f the project, for coordinating and overseeing overall implementation o f
the project. The PMU provides support for energy audits, technical review, monitoring,
etc.   These arrangements have been functioning well and will be continued for the
additional financing project also. The P M U will be strengthened through additional
staffing intechnical andprocurement areas to handle the expanded scope o f the project.

6.5     Environmental: The proposed program extension does not change the
environmental category o f the project (Category B), as all impacts are expected to be
positive.    An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the energy efficiency
retrofitting was prepared during the original project and will continue to be used in the
additional financing. Energy efficiency measures in schools, hospitals and social
buildings are expected to have a positive impact on environment.

6.6     The project, including the energy efficiency measures in all the buildings, will
lead to a significant reduction o f greenhouse gas emissions (C02), which could also
generate Certified Emission Reductions (CER) for trading after Belarus is eligible for
themaccording to the Kyoto Protocolprocedures.

6.7     Procurement:Procurement arrangements will be similarto the ongoingproject,
andwill be inaccordance with the Bank's latest procurement guidelines. The relevant
thresholds for prior review and for procurement methods will be as under the ongoing
project. The procurement planis included inthe minutes o f the contract negotiations.
The existing contract for the design andsupervision consultant will beextended to cover
the first year's investments for the additional financing. A newtenderingprocedure will
be organized for the design and supervision consultant for the 2009 and2010 investments
based on local competition.

6.8.    Financial management: The financial management functions o f the additional
financing will be handled by the PMU, which will be responsible for the flow o f funds,
budgeting, accounting, reporting, auditing and internal controls. There would be no
changes in the financial management arrangements which are now in place at the PMU
for the implementation of the Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project. Currently, the
financial management arrangements o fthe Project are acceptable to the Bank.




                                             11

6.9.    The financial management arrangements of the Social Infrastructure Retrofitting
Project implementedby the PMU at "BelInvestEnergoSberezhenije" have been reviewed
periodically as part of project FM monitoring and have been found satisfactory.
According to the latest Financial Management monitoring of Social Infrastructure
Retrofitting Project as of July 10, 2007, the financial management arrangements of the
project continue to be satisfactory, and most of the Bank's recommendations have been
implemented from the previous FM monitoring in September 2006. Implementation of
the recommendations made during the current supervision will be monitored during the
following monitoringvisits. Inaddition to the recommendationswhich are to be followed
during the remaining implementation period of SIRP, it was agreed that the additionally,
PMU would establish the procedure of quarterly budgeting and revise the project POM.,
inorder to enhance the financial management system for the additional financing. Both
actions have been completed prior to negotiations.

6.10. The Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project i s in compliance with the audit
covenant: the audit report on project financial statements for the fiscal years 2006 and
2005 have been received on time and were found satisfactory. The auditors have issued
unqualifiedopinion for both years; however, no management letter was issued based on
those audits. The PMRs for the year 2006 were submittedwith a small delay of up to one
month inboth reporting periods, and were found satisfactory. The FM supervision report
of July 2007 contains several recommendations on further enhancement of the quality of
the periodic reports andtheir timely submission to the Bank inthe nextreportingperiods.

6.11.    Similar FM arrangements will be adopted for the additional financing. The audit
of the project financial statements will be conducted by independent private auditors
acceptable to the Bank, on terms of reference agreed with the Bank. The annual audited
project financial statements will be submittedto the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year and also at the closing o f the project. The existing formats of the IFRs
(formerly PMRs) will be used and the PMU will produce a full set o f IFRs every six
months throughout the life of the project and will submit them to the Bank no later than
45 days after the end of each six months period.

6.12   Disbursement Arrangements: The existing disbursement arrangements will
continue for the additional financing project with a change in the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for all new activities to 100 percent. The allocation of
financing proceedsi s as follows.




                                             12

                      Category                   Additional            % of
                                                Amount of the     Expendituresto
                                               LoanAllocated        be Financed
                                                (Expressed in
                                                   Dollars)

(1)     Goods, Works andConsultancyservices       14,962,500     100%

(2)     Front-end Fee onthe Additional
        Financing                                   37,500
        TOTAL                                     15,000,000




                              7. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES


7.1      The project will enhance achievements and outcomes o f the Social Infrastructure
Retrofitting project, increasing the number o f schools, hospitals and orphanages to be
retrofitted. The expected outcomes are: (i)decreased energy consummation; (ii)
improved heating services for social sector buildings improved customer satisfaction; and
(iii)
    reduced environmental emissions.     Another beneficial outcome would be potential
carbon credits accruing from the project through reduced carbon intensity and avoided
carbon dioxide emissions, which could be traded when Belarus ratifies the Kyoto
Protocol.

7.2      The project will continue to monitor the same indicators as for the original
project, including number o fbuildings retrofitted including buildings where: (i)
                                                                               windows;
(ii)substations; (iii) and (iv) lighting systems are changed. In addition the total
                      boilers;
saved energy amount for the whole project i s monitored.




                              8. BENEFITSAND RISKS

8.1      Risks: A potential risk to implementation is delays in procurement and
implementation because of the capacity o f the PMU. The PMU has restructured its
organization and employed new staff in 2007 which i s assessed to be adequate to


                                            13

implement simultaneously Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project and Post Chernobyl
Recovery Project. Additional training for the procurement staff has been provided in
2007 to strengthen the capacity o f the PMU. The lessons learned have been used to
improve the biddingand technical design documents.


8.2    Benefits: The project has clear benefits for Belarus and especially for social
sector buildings including the following: (i)  more efficient use o f energy in social sector
buildings; (ii)improved service level; and (iii) reduction of environmental emissions. All
the above are in line with the project's original development objectives. A large part o f
project benefits are difficult to quantify. These benefits include an increased comfort and
improved health users o f the rehabilitated schools and hospitals, and lower air pollution.




     9. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
                                         FINANCING


9.1    The Borrower has indicated that the additional loan would be an IBRD variable
spread loan in U S Dollars, repayable in 17 years including a 5 year grace period. The
above-mentioned terms to be finally determined in loan negotiations. The Borrower has
selected these terms because they are similar to the terms o f the original loan.




                                              14



