                                                                                                               97793
Belarus: Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings                                                          April 14, 2011




 Effective use of energy, increased energy self-reliance and reduced
 environmental emissions in Belarus


Overview
The project helped to address the key priorities for the government of Belarus - reducing the
country’s energy dependency and increasing energy efficiency. Pupils, teachers, doctors and
patients received improved heating and lighting services in 745 social sector buildings in all
regions of Belarus. Heat consumption has been reduced by 50 percent, electricity consumption
has been reduced by 15 percent.


Challenge                                                  MULTIMEDIA
In the 1990s, the government of Belarus
requested the World Bank to provide support to
improve energy efficiency in public buildings.
The health and education subsectors suffered
from a lack of funds, while energy was wasted in
heating and lighting poorly designed and
maintained facilities – resources that could be
used for more direct sector purposes such as
books, medicines and equipment. The
habitability and functionality of social sector
buildings was impaired by poorly balanced and
unstable thermal environments which interfered
with the learning and healing missions of the
facilities. In addition, lighting levels and lighting output
characteristics were below rudimentary standards and
                                                                        More Results
caused eyestrain and irritation.
Implementation of the government’s National Energy Savings
Program to improve energy efficiency through replacement or
installation of new energy saving equipment required
significant financial resources.
                                                                        745
                                                                        Heating and lighting services
                                                                        have been improved in 745
                                                                        social sector buildings in
Approach                                                                Belarus by December 2010.

The issues addressed in the project included measures to


                                                                        50%
improve the functional and health environments of social
sector facilities, with particular emphasis on reducing energy
consumption. The project retrofitted social sector facilities to
encourage a more effective use of resources, reducing                   Heat consumption has been
operating and maintenance costs in schools, medical and                 reduced by 50 percent, and
                                                                        electricity consumption by 15
other selected social facilities such as orphanages and                 percent.
community homes for the elderly and the disabled. The
project had two main components: (a) energy retrofitting
measures in schools and medical facilities and associated
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
supply-side improvements, including building envelope and
heating system improvements as well as conversion or                 Belarus Social Infrastructure
replacement of individual autonomous boilers, and (b)                Retrofitting Project, approved
technical assistance to support project implementation,              June 5, 2001, closed December
                                                                     31, 2010
including technical and financial audits, continuation of the
public awareness campaign, training for Project Management           Social Infrastructure Retrofitting
Unit staff, and financing of studies and workshops.                  Project – Additional Financing

                                                                     Results Brochure (2007)
Results                                                              Energy Efficiency Department of
                                                                     the State Standardization
The project closed in December 2010, and the final results
                                                                     Committee
were:
                                                                     Ministry of Energy
      A total of 207,100 students, teachers, patients and            Result story “Secondary school
      medical staff have benefitted from the improved                #33 - reduction of energy
      facilities;                                                    consumption by 14 percent”
                                                                     (2008)
      Some 745 social sector buildings have been retrofitted         Result story “World Bank Team
      with energy efficiency improvements, and 300                   Visits Minsk’s Gymnasium #8 to
      educational facilities have received lighting                  see Progress”
      improvements;

      In all, 42 boiler houses and 541 heat substations have
      been renovated;

      Eight demonstration sites displaying energy efficiency measures have been
      commissioned;

      Windows in 84 social sector buildings have been replaced with energy efficient models;

      Increased comfort in the public and residential sectors and improved health indicators
      (e.g., children’s eyes suffer about 15-20 percent less at school lessons, and there has
      been a 20-30 percent reduction of diseases and accidents at a number of schools).
      Luminosity was increased from 200-300 to above 500 lux, at the same time allowing
      savings of 15 percent of consumed electricity.

      Significant reduction in energy consumption in the improved facilities - total annual
      saving of fuel and energy resources amounts to 243,300 megawatt hours/year.

      The project-associated reduction of CO2 emission is 40,000 tons/year.

      Increased participation of beneficiaries (teachers, students, parents and hospital staff) in
      energy efficiency efforts and use of social facilities. (e.g., creation of Energy Efficiency
      Museum in Gomel; participation of all schools in Energy Efficiency Days, etc.).



Bank Contribution
In 2001, a US$ 22.6 million IBRD loan and an associated US$ 1 million PHRD grant for
climate change were approved, followed by a US$ 15 million additional financing in 2007. The
grant financed the conversion of Bolovliany boiler plant to biomass.
The Bank-supported Study on Increasing Domestic Production of Energy Resources in Belarus
assessed wood and peat resources of Belarus, estimating investment needs in fuel supply and
energy production, and provided the cost-benefit analysis of the viability of large-scale biomass
projects, including an estimation of the break-even price of natural gas.

Partners
The Bank supports the government’s national energy efficiency programs. The Bank team
worked closely with the Energy Efficiency Department of the State Standardization Committee
and its Project Management Unit ”RUE Belinvestenergosberezhenie”, as well as with the
Ministry of Energy and the Oblast Executive Committees.

Moving Forward
Over the last 15 years, Belarus has made significant progress in improving energy efficiency.
Several national energy efficiency programs have been adopted and investments in energy
efficiency reached about US$ 3.86 billion. Energy self-reliance has also improved as indicated
by the increase in local fuels in the country’s energy balance.
Successful implementation of the Social Infrastructure Retrofitting Project paved the way for
the next World Bank operations in Belarus, including Post Chernobyl Recovery Project and
Energy Efficiency Project, and contributed to the dialogue on broader energy sector reforms.
The government expressed interest to continue cooperation with the Bank in the area of
energy efficiency.

Beneficiaries

      Viktor Mikhnev, Deputy Director, National Hematology and Transfusiology Center,
      Minsk: “ Automated boilers have reduced heat consumption by 40-50 percent. This year
      alone savings from reduced energy consumption have made 18 percent. This has
      helped us to cut costs, which is critical for organizations financed from the public
      budget. Now we need well-established companies to ensure high-quality maintenance ."

      Manager, Secondary School No. 3, town of Nesvizh, Minsk Oblast: “ Before, whenever
      the sanitary and epidemiology authorities visited us, they always had complaints – bad
      lighting, too dark. But we could not do anything. Now they are happy with us. And we
      are happy. There’s enough light in the classrooms. And no more complaints .”
