Document of                 -C                  P
The World Bank                    FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2829-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SECOND ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 23, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              : Thai Baht (B)
B 1.00                     = US$0.05
US$1.00                    = B 20
B 1.0 million                 US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                        =  3.281 feet (ft)
1. cubic meter (cu m)              =  35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   =  0.621 miles (mi)
51 square kilometer (sq km)         =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                     =  2.471 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                    =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                       =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic meter per second (cms)    =  35.315 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 kilovolt (kV)                    =  1,000 volts (V)
1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)            =  1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)            =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes kVA,
1 kilowatt (kW)                    =  1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                    =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)              =  1 million kilowatt hours (E
1 kilocalorie (kcal)               =  3.968 British thermal units:
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PEA     - Provincial Electricity Authority
EGAT    -  Electricity Generating Authority of ThaiLi_
MEA     - Metropolitan Electricity authority
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
Guarantor:      Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:         $75 million equivalent
Terms:         20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% per annum.
Project
Description:  The Second Accelerated Rural Electrification project (ARE II)
forms part of the PEA's rural electrification program
(FY80-86), which aims to electrify about 34,800 villages by
1986. The proposed project, covering the period 1981-85,
involves the electrification of about 8,000 villages in 27
provinces, 16 provinces in the South, 5 in the North, 2 in
the East and 4 in the Central Region. The total number of
households connected under the project would reach about 1
million covering a population of about 6 million. The project
includes: (a) construction of about 15,500 km of primary
lines, and about 16,600 km of secondary lines; (b) installa-
tion of 10,750 distribution transformers, about 1.0 million
kWh meters and 10,500 km of street lighting; (c) supply of
tools, implements, equipment and vehicles for construction,
installation and servicing; (d) feasibility, detailed engin-
eering and construction of two or more mini-hydro pilot pro-
jects; and (e) consultancy services for a study of mini-hydro
schemes in Thailand and a study for PEA's operations
development. In addition to generating revenues for the
electricity sector, the proposed project would produce
quantifiable indirect benefits due to fuel cost savings,
increased productivity of cottage industries and power tools,
and savings in operating costs of other motive power. No
undue risks or technical difficulties are expected in respect
of the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Project items                                        Local    Foreign    Total
--------$ million --------
A.  Material                                          51.8      66.1      117.9
B. Equipment, tools, vehicles
& warehouse facilities                          2.3      10.5       12.8
C. Other
Labor                                           7.1       -          7.1
Transportation                                  4.2       -          4.2
Engineering and supervision                     9.1       -          9.1
Duties and taxes                               24.6       -         24.6
Mini-hydro pilot projects                        2.0       1.5        3.5
Consultancy services                             1.0      1.0        2.0
Overhead and indirect costs                     15.5      -         15.5
Miscellaneous                                    2.5      -           2.5
Subtotal                                     66.0       2.5       68.5
D. Contingencies
Physical                                        4.2       2.8        7.0
Price                                          43.3      20.5       63.8
Subtotal                                     47.5      23.3       70.8
Total Project Cost                          167.6    102.4       270.0
Financing Plan
Source
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD)                     -        20.0       20.0
OPEC Special Fund (OPEC Fund)                        2.1       5.9        8.0
Government of Norway                                           1.5        1.5
IBRD                                                 -        75.0       75.0
PEA (including local borrowings)                   165.5       -        165.5
Total                                       167.6    102.4       270.0



Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:        Bank FY 1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
------------- ($ million) -------------
Annual                           5.5   12.0   14.5   16.0   15.0   12.0
Cumulative                       5.5   17.5   32.0   48.0   63.0   75.0
Rate of Return: 15%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2875-TH, dated May 15, 1980.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR THE SECOND ACCELERATED RURAL
ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Provincial Electricity Authority, with the guarantee of the Kingdom
of Thailand, for the equivalent of $75.0 million to help finance the Second
Accelerated Rural Electrification Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% p.a. The
borrower is also seeking financing assistance from the Saudi Fund for Develop-
ment, OPEC Special Fund, and the Government of Norway.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress. It
identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the
need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differences in view about Thailand's external relations and about the politi-
cal decision-making process within the country. The government formed in
November 1977, under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
moved to strengthen relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners and tried to
stabilize and improve relations with its Indochinese neighbors. Progress in
the latter was, however, affected by Viet Nam's involvement in Kampuchea and
the flood of Khmer refugees into Thailand. These developments and the
necessary actions related to caring for the refugees have diverted a consi-
derable amount of high-level Government attention and led to significant
increases in military and other expenditures. General Kriangsak formed his
second administration in April 1979 but came under mounting criticism in the
National Assembly for his economic policies, particularly the petroleum price
increases and his handling of the refugee problem. Faced with waning
political support and increasing public criticism, General Kriangsak under-
took an extensive cabinet reorganization in February 1980. However, this
failed to engender the necessary political stability, and,facing a no
confidence vote precipitated by petroleum price and electricity tariff
increases, his government resigned on February 29.
/1 Parts I and II are substantially the same as those presented in the
President's Report for the Mae Moh Lignite Project (P-2800-TH) dated
May 1, 1980, submitted to the Executive Directors under cover of
Secretary's Memorandum, R80-107.



- 2 -
4.        General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected to succeed Kriangsak as Prime
Minister by the National Assembly after receiving the support of nearly all
major political parties. General Prem's new government, formed on March 14,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. On March 28,
1980, General Prem announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development. The statement places high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and on measures to improve health and education. Particular emphasis is given
to generating more jobs and it is expected that a rural public works program
similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program will be a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustment of energy prices is foreseen at the same time
that domestic energy resources are being developed. Reforms in monetary and
fiscal policy and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export
performance are also called for. As discussed below these reforms are
critical to increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector)
and reducing the current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the debt service gap remained quite low.
6.        The rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.6% p.a from 8.1%
in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price increase of 1973
and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this decline has
been the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less
fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth to about
4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. In recent years,
inflation has accelerated, amounting to 7% in 1977, 8% in 1978 and 10% in
1979. The inflation in the last half of 1979 was more than 14% and the
expected rates are 14% in 1980, 13% in 1981 and 12% in 1982. Substantial
growth of the agricultural sector contributed to rapid expansion of 11.7% of
the economy in 1978, but a combination of poor agricultural output and adverse
effects of external factors, primarily the oil price increase, reduced 1979
growth to an estimated 6.7%, with little improvement expected for 1980. The
budget deficit is expected to exceed $1.0 billion in FY80 as a result of
increased military expenditures, an increase in civil service pay, and
increased subsidies to public enterprises as a result of the failure to raise
electricity tariffs sufficiently to offset fully oil price increases.



- 3 -
7.        Thailand's terms of trade and prospects for agricultural exports are
now less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing restrictions
on some of its exports to the European Economic Community, including cassava
and canned r >eapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in
1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP in 1978 and is estimated to be $2.2 billion
in 1979, or about 8.0% of GDP. The overall balance-of-payments deficit for
1979 is estimated at nearly $600 million. The Government has significantly
increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar
market and from IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves have
also been used extensively. To contain the balance-of-payments deficit, the
Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and
increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. The
prices of petroleum products were raised in January 1979, July 1979, and
February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline. The
current price of gasoline is the equivalent of about $1.80 per gallon (US).
After a proposed power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November
1979, a lesser tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in
February 1980. This is insufficient to cover the increased cost of fuel, and
subsidies from the oil fund (partly funded by revenues from other petroleum
products) continue. Apart from raising prices, the Government has also taken
some energy conservation measures to contain the oil import bill which is
expected to jump by $1.0 billion in 1980 despite the fact that there will be
only a small increase in the volume of imports. In recent years, government
usury laws limiting borrowing and lending rates have become binding as
infLation has exerted upward pressure on interest rates. The combination of
high inflation rates and the interest ceilings has reduced real interest rates
to near zero or negative levels in the past few years which has led to a sharp
drop in marginal savings rates and high investment demand for funds. Until
January 1980 term deposit rates were limited to 7% for maturities less than
one year and 8% for more than one year. Lending rate limits were fixed at
12.5% and 15%. Liquidity constraints prevented all the demand from being
satisfied and led to de facto credit allocation by the financial sector. With
a view to encouraging domestic savings and curtailing the flight of capital
abroad, the Government raised interest rate limits by 3 percentage points for
both borrowing and lending at the beginning of 1980. The response to this
change has been favorable on saving, the domestic demand for funds, and
external capital flows. It is too soon to tell whether the adjustment is
sufficient, but currently market lending rates are slightly below the limits.
8.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades has not
been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there are
very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to economic and
social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms of topography,
climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for
future development. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,



- 4 -
Northeast and South. Within the regions also there is considerable variation:
farmers who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed sub-
stantial growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been
unable or unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated.
Recent research has shown that inappropriate cropping patterns and agri-
cultural techniques are major factors in much of the rural poverty. This
is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the low incomes of
this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the
economy.
9.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards is being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability.  In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, and the
new village development program in 1979. These programs have been designed to
produce quick and tangible political as well as economic results, but consid-
erably more attention and resources need to be devoted to rural development if
these programs are to have lasting impact. The Government is strongly
committed to rural development and raising rural incomes and is expected to
launch a major public works program in the near future. While the absorptive
capacity in rural areas has increased since the Tambon program of 1975-76,
there is some concern about the efficacy of crash programs in view of the
resource constraints facing the budget and the limitations of implementation
capacity at various levels of government.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of



- 5 -
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in volume, and the current account deficit is
estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. The unfavorable external situation will
require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall
growth rate will exceed about 6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions.  At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and actions in areas of resource management and balanced
regional development.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in the rural sector. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector.  Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agri-
cultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private sector
can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Public sector development expenditures



- 6 -
were to double in real terms in relation to the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social
objectives are also not spelled out in any detail. The Government has now
embarked on the preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86) and the agencies of
the Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the
Fifth Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources
and the formulation of development policies and program. These studies may
help identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP.  The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. Much greater efforts will be needed
in the future if the reliance on foreign financing - and thereby the deficit
on the current account of the balance of payments - are to be reduced in
relation to the size of the economy.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and current
account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s.  It is esti-
mated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current account
deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policies are followed,
including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures, promoting
agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection
in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major
capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them. This implies
an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85, which will
require very large amounts of external borrowing totalling about $18 billion
net over the period.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the growing resource require-
ments. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets,
and by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 mil-
lion, and Thailand is considering even larger drawings under standby arrange-
ments. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to



coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad
in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of Thailand's
external bo-rowing requirements exceed those discussed at the last Consulta-
tive Group, and the need for continued concessional aid is perhaps now more
acute. In addition, external agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent years increasingly concentrated project lending to Thailand in the
agricultural and social sectors that have high social benefits, but low
foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external
resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects
where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural-adjustment lending should also be
considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to about 25% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31,1980 had received 53 loans amounting to about
$1,600 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $316.4 million
for irrigation; $494 million for power/energy and rural electrification
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. In addition, Thailand has
received six IDA credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education;
one credit of $25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling
$12.5 million for irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for
a population project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been
carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II



-8-
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed by
recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Bank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will.continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.



- 9 -
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will conLtnue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development, particularly for developing energy and its domestic
primary sources, are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$459.3 million, as of December 31, 1978, representing about 26% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of
public debt service payments in 1978 was 29.7% or 7.1% of total debt service
including private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest
overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In addition, although the
level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five years,
the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total public external debt as Thailand
has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in total debt
outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and its share of total debt service
would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of March 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding privete sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in
financial institutions and money market developments.



- 10 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption
25.        Total energy consumption in Thailand has increased from 7.4 mil-
lion tons of oil equivalent in 1970 to over 14.4 million tons in 1978, an
average annual growth rate of 9.0%. In 1978, petroleum products accounted
for almost 70.6% of total energy; hydro and lignite (low grade coal) for
about 4.6% and 1.9% respectively; and charcoal, firewood, paddy husk and
bagasse for the remaining 23%. The price of oil products has increased
almost five-fold since 1973 and has become a heavy burden on the Thai
economy. Between 1972 and 1977, the oil import bill rose in volume by 25%
and in value by 635%. In 1978, oil imports, which were about $1,150 million
in value, absorbed 29% of export earnings, leaving Thailand with a substantial
current account deficit. The impact of oil prices will be even greater
following the 1979 increases. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1980,
Thailand's oil import bill will increase to $2.7 billion, absorbing over 30%
of total export earnings and contributing to a current account deficit of more
than $2 billion.
Potential Energy Resources
26.       Natural Gas.  Significant reserves of natural gas have been dis-
covered in the Gulf of Thailand which are projected to come on stream in mid-
1982. The proven recoverable gas reserves are 1.6 trillion cubic feet (tcf)
of good quality gas and 1.3 tcf of lower quality gas.  Probable recoverable
reserves are estimated at a further 4.7 tcf.  Two overseas groups, Union Oil
Company and Texas Pacific Oil Company, will undertake the development of gas
reserves, and the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) will take delivery at
the offshore production platforms.  In the initial years much of the gas
output will be contracted to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
(EGAT), while a small proportion will be available to industries. The Bank
made a loan of $107 million (Loan 1773-TH) in FY80 for the first phase of
development of the natural gas pipeline.
27.       Lignite Reserves.  Substantial increases in Thailand's lignite
deposits have been indicated by recent drillings. Lignite is the lowest
quality coal with a heating value of about 3,880 kcal/kg or lower (2,700
kcal/kg at Thailand's Mae Moh mine). Lignite is uneconomical to transport due
to its high moisture and ash content, and unsafe to store due to its tendency
to decompose and self-ignite in open air. Hence, lignite is not traded and is
used almost exclusively in Thailand, as elsewhere, for large-scale power
generation at mine-mouth sites. The present known lignite reserves total 770
million metric tons (Mt) located at Mae Moh (650 million Mt), Krabi (100
million Mt), and Li (20 million Mt). Of these, 175 million Mt are proven
reserves that can be economically exploited, and the remainder require
proving. The proven and probable lignite reserves at Mae Moh are capable of
supporting a generating capacity of about 1,500 MW during the 1980s which,
together with the presently installed 60 MW capacity at Krabi, would
constitute approximately 22% of EGAT's total energy generation in 1990.



- 11 -
28.       Other Energy Resources.  Thailand's other energy resources include
hydro, fuelwood, and oil shale. Domestic hydro potential is about 9,300 MW,
of which about 910 MW are in operation and another 2,200 MW will be installed
by 1990. The international rivers, the Mekong, which forms the border between
Thailand and Laos and then flows through Kampuchea and Viet Nam, and the
Salween in Burma, together have an estimated hydro potential, in nine
potential projects, of about 24,000 MW with an annual energy output of 144,000
GWh. This represents about 12 times Thailand's electricity consumption in
1978 and 3.5 times the forecast electricity requirement in 1990. The Mekong
Secretariat had been instrumental in helping to complete project preparation
studies but serious resettlement and political problems will have to be
addressed if these hydro resources are to be developed. Oil shale reserves at
Mae Sot are estimated at 2,500 million tons, but these are uneconomic to
develop at present prices. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly
depleting and deforestation is becoming a serious problem.
29.       Energy Investment Program.  Large investments are required to meet
Thailand's energy demand in the 1980s. The annual cost of the energy
investment program will be in excess of $300 million for oil and gas, $100
million for refineries and $50 million for lignite development. Other
investments in energy production and conservation will be needed to reduce the
country's dependence on imported energy in the future. For the electricity
subsector, capital expenditure to meet increased demand is estimated at
$11,300 million during the period FY80-88.
The Sector Entities
30.       Electricity Enterprises.  Thailand has three autonomous state enter-
prises. The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is respon-
sible for generation and transmission and sells energy in bulk to large
industrial consumers and to the two power distribution authorities: the
Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA), is responsible for distributing
electricity in the Bangkok metropolitan area, and the Provincial Electricity
Authority (PEA) for providing electricity to the rest of the country. EGAT
accounted for 95% of all electricity generated in 1978, the balance being
generated by PEA in areas not yet connected to the grid, and by selfgenerating
industries.
31.       A new Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy was created
recently for the development of nonconventional energy and new uses of exist-
ing energy sources, but, so far, it has played a minor role in the larger
sector issues. The National Energy Administration (NEA) within the Prime
Minister's Office, while responsible for overall energy policy, has concen-



- 12 -
trated mainly on collecting energy data. NEA is currently planning to carry
out an Energy Master Plan Study, with the assistance of Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and UNDP financing, to define a program to meet Thailand's energy
requirements up to the year 2000. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT)
was established in December 1978 to deal with all petroleum business and
develop related energy policies. Under the Second Natural Gas Development
Project (Loan 1773-TH), PTT will receive technical assistance to undertake:
(a) a refinery expansion study; (b) a gas utilization study; and (c) energy
conservation studies. These efforts, in addition to NEA's program, should
provide an initial framework for the development of a comprehensive energy
strategy for the country.
Sector Coordination
32.       In 1977, the Committee on Power Policy and Development (CPPD) was
formed to oversee the functioning and development of the sector and to provide
overall coordination. However, CPPD has not developed into a decision-making
body with sufficiently broad competence to exercise control or to provide the
required focus for sector planning. The Government has agreed to undertake a
study to improve sector coordination. This study would be financed under the
Khao Laem Hydroelectric project (approved on November 27, 1979, but not yet
signed), and the recommendations of the study would be implemented during
1980/81.
Sector Financial Position and Tariffs
33.       Tariff levels proved adequate throughout the late 1960s and the
early 1970s, and the financial position of the sector remained strong. During
the sixties and early seventies, the electricity sector enjoyed substantial
economies of scale, shifts to hydro and large steam generation coupled with
rapid increases in demand and numbers of consumers. Tariffs were reduced from
time to time during these years. The fuel crisis and economic slowdown of
1973/74 necessitated large increases in tariffs but the political changes in
Thailand, which coincided with those developments, left the country ill
prepared for fully implementing such increases. Tariff increases took place
in 1974 (50%) and 1977 (29%) but were not sufficient to ensure the financial
viability of the sector.
34.       Recent Developments.  Severe droughts in 1977 and 1978 adversely
affected the thermal/hydro generation mix; while, in 1979, fuel oil prices
increased some 116%. During the last 15 months there has been a steady
decline in the overall financial position of the sector. In an attempt to
cushion the impact of accelerating inflation, the Government chose to delay
passing through the rising costs of electricity to consumers. In 1978,
prices of petroleum products were adjusted so that a greater proportion
of the oil price increases were borne by gasoline consumers to the
benefit of fuel oil consumers, mainly the Electricity Generation
Authority of Thailand (EGAT). However, by mid-1979 this subsidy proved
inadequate to cover the increasing costs of fuel oil to EGAT, and the
Government, faced by mounting criticism of its handling of the economy,
introduced direct budgetary subsidies, estimated to cost about $7.0 million



- 13 -
a month. These budgetary subsidies were seen as a temporary measure to be
removed when the political climate improved. The Government's attempts to
raise tariffs in November, 1979 by about 56% were thwarted by strong
political opposition and widespread public demonstrations. These tariff
adjustments were required as a condition of effectiveness of the Bang Pakong
thermal power loan (1690-TH), approved in April 1979, and as a condition of
signing the Khao Laem hydropower loan approved in November 1979.
35.       In an effort to gain political support for the necessary tariff
adjustments, the Government set up a parliamentary committee in November 1979
to study the question of tariffs. The committee met through January 1980 but
failed to reach a consensus. Nonetheless, the Governnent decided that a
further postponement of tariff action was unacceptable and raised tariffs by
38% at the retail level on February 1, 1980 to partially cover fuel costs.
About the same time, the Government announced increases in the prices of
gasoline, diesel, kerosene and cooking gas ranging from 24-51%. These
increases were met with overwhelming opposition in the Nlational Assembly and
by the public and the Government, facing a vote of no-confidence, resigned on
February 29, 1980.
36.       In presenting its proposals for dealing with the sector's financial
difficulties, the Thai delegation to the lIae Mloh lignite loan negotiations
(IIarch 10-20) explained that the new Government was committed to removing all
budgetary subsidies and reestablishing the sector on a sound financial foot-
ing. However, in light of the recent political developments in the country,
including a change in Government, the delegation requested that the new
Government be given time in which to develop a workable energy policies and
pricing strategy. Accordingly, it was agreed that, by January 1, 1981,
budgetary subsidies to the electricity sector would be removed and that the
sector would earn a rate of return of 2% in FY81 and 8% in FY82 and thereafter
(Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). To meet these objectives,
the Government agreed to carry out a Plan of Action consisting of the
following specific steps:
(a) adjustment of electricity tariffs for bulk power (totalling
about 56%) in two or more steps to remove all oil subsidies
to the sector not later than January 1, 1981;
(b) a tariff increase of about 19% for bulk power around April 1,
1981 to achieve a 2% rate of return for FY81;
(c) procedures to avoid infrequent and large-scale tariff adjust-
ments in the future, whereby the Government, together with the
Bank and EGAT, would review every six months, commencing from
October 1980, the tariff requirements of the sector for the next
two quarters and introduce agreed adjustments; and
(d) adjustments to the tariff schedules of the three utilities (MEA,
PEA and EGAT) through the respective fuel adjustment clauses,
to be introduced promptly after oil price increases are
announced by the Government.



- 14 -
37.       Amendments to Loan 1527-TH.  While these arrangements will lead to
somewhat lower earning levels than envisioned under the Bang Pakong Thermal
Power loan (1690-TH) and the Khao Laem Hydroelectric loan (not yet signed),
they will enable the sector to reach a rate of return of 8% in FY82 as
stipulated under these loans. Following the approval by the Executive
Directors on May 22, 1980 of the loan for the Mae Moh Lignite Project the
provisions of, Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement for the M4ae Moh loan, namely that the electricity Sector
would earn a rate of return of 2% in FY81 and not less than 8% in FY82 and
thereafter, would supercede Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement and by
reference Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement of the first Accelerated Rural
Electrification Project (Loan 1527-TH).
Rural Electrification Program
38.       Provision of power to the provincial areas began on a planned
basis only in 1960 with the formation of PEA. Since 1968 growth has been
rapid; the number of consumers increased at an annual average rate of 13.5%
and electricity sales rose by about 21.5% per annum. The proportion of
population served increased from 9.5% in FY68 to 23% at the end of FY78.
The number of villages electrified annually rose from 940 in 1974 to 2,980
in 1979, by which time 14,000 villages or about 29% of the estimated 49,000
villages in Thailand had been electrified. PEA expects the rapid growth
rate to continue for some time due to its large village electrification
program, the growing demand for electricity and the conversion of diesel
engines to electric power brought about by increases in fuel prices and
shortage of diesel fuel. PEA had originally planned to electrify all
villages in Thailand in about 25 years but has now embarked on a greatly
accelerated program which aims to reach all villages by the late 1980s.
Financing of PEA's FY80-88 Program
39.       PEA's expansion program will increase its asset base about
threefold between FY80 and FY88. Capital expenditures to meet the required
program are estimated at about $1,321 million at current prices, of which,
about $293 million (22%) would be borrowed abroad; $648 million (49%)
borrowed locally; $24 million (2%) would come from Government equity; and
$356 million (27%) would be financed from internal cash generation (after
meeting working capital requirements).
The Bank's Lending to the Sector
40.       The Bank has helped finance nine projects through loans to EGAT,
totalling about $362 million, a loan to PEA of $25 million, and two loans
totalling $107 million to PTT. EGAT's projects have included dam
construction, equipment for hydro and thermal power generation, transmission
and substation facilities. Six projects have been completed and are
operating satisfactorily and the seventh was virtually completed at end of



- 15 -
February 1980; another two are under construction. The two most recent
loans to EGAT will help finance the dual gas/oil-fired Bang Pakong thermal
power station (designed to use the natural gas from the Gulf of Thailand) and
meet the growing demand for electricity by the increased use of indigenous
hydro resources at Khao Laem. The loans to PTT would help the development
and availability of natural gas for power production and use in industry.
The recent loan for Mae Moh Lignite project will enable EGAT to expand
lignite production from 1 million tons in 1979 to 2.8 million tons in 1984
in order to meet in part the requirement of the power units of 150 MW
each at Mae Moh proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
41.        The most recent power project performance audit report, of March
1978 on the South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project (Loan 790-TH), indicated
that the main objectives of the project had been met and that the project was
completed on time and within the original cost estimate.
42.        The first loan to PEA (1527-TH) in 1978 is helping finance
the first stage (ARE I) of the accelerated rural electrification program
directed towards 16 provinces in the northeast region and four other
provinces. By March 1980, work was proceeding on about 1,100 villages of
which about 450 villages had already been provided with electricity. The
project is about six months behind schedule due to delays in procurement in
the initial stages of implementation, but it is expected that the project
will be completed on schedule in December 1982. The proposed project
(ARE II) is the second stage of PEA's program (FY80-86).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
43.        The project was prepared by PEA with advisory assistance
from the Harza Engineering company of the United States, financed by the
United States Agency for International Development. The project was
appraised in February/March 1979 with an updating mission in December 1979.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Thailand - Second Accelerated Rural
Electrification Project" (No. 2875-TH) dated May 15, 1980 is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 21 to 26, 1980.
The Thai delegation was led by I1.E. Khun Nikorn Praisaengpetch, Charge de
Affairs a.i., Royal Thai Embassy and included Dr. Vira Pitrachat, General
Manager of PEA and Khun Pravit Klongwathanakith of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
44.        During the period 1981-85, the project would provide electric-
ity to about 8,000 villages in 27 provinces; 16 in the South, 5 in
the North, 2 in the East and 4 in the Central Region. By 1985, the total



- 16 -
number of households connected through facilities constructed under the
project would be about 1 million covering a population of about 6 million.
The project comprises: (a) construction of about 15,500 km of primary
lines; (b) construction of 16,600 km of secondary lines; (c) installation of
10,750 distribution transformers, 1,037,000 kWh meters and 10,500 km of
street lighting; (d) supply of reclosers, fuses, switches, capacitors,
voltage regulators, lightning arresters and the necessary vehicles, equipment
and tools for construction, installation and servicing; (e) feasibility study,
detailed design and construction of two or more mini-hydro pilot projects; and
(f) consultancy services for (i) a study to identify potential mini-hydro
sites in the country and to select a list of mini-hydro schemes for detailed
design and implementation; and (ii) a study of PEA's organizational structure,
policies and operational procedures to help ensure that they are appropriate
to enable PEA to carry out its rapidly expanding rural electrification
program.
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
45.       PEA, the borrower which was established in 1960, has grown rapidly
to become a large, well-organized utility. By end FY79 it had 12,274
employees, 1,570,556 consumers and was operating 21,576 km of primary distri-
bution lines and 2,302 MVA of transformer capacity. The Under-Secretary of
State of the Ministry of Interior is the Chairman of the ten-member Board of
Directors. PEA's chief executive, the General Manager, is an ex-officio
member. The General Manager and staff are able and well qualified. PEA
operates a training school for lower level staff; higher level staff have
benefitted from scholarships overseas and from short-term training with
utilities in foreign countries. PEA carries out its operations through
electric works offices located throughout the country. There are 12 regional,
69 provincial, 471 district and 334 local offices. Over the 1971-79 period,
PEA's investment program totalled $265 million, increasing from about $11.5
million in 1971 to $64.5 million in 1979. System losses had been reduced from
about 15% to 11% during this period, while sales increased annually at an
average rate of 21.5%.
46.       PEA operates well at a regional level but its headquarters organi-
zational structure and policies need to be reviewed to meet the demands of its
rapidly expanding electrification program. In particular, financial policies,
distribution system planning, procurement and inventory, and coordination of
planning among departments are the areas which need to be strengthened. It
was agreed to include in the proposed loan financing for consultants to carry
out a study for PEA's operations development and its complementary
organizational structure and that PEA will exchange views with the Bank
regarding the recommendations of the study and their implementation (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PEA's Financial Position
47.       PEA's financial position was sound at the end of FY79.  Over the
past nine years, rates of return (on historically valued average net fixed



- 17 -
assets in operation) varied from 8.7% to 20.9%; for FY79 the rate of return
was 18.0%. Debt service coverage on an annual basis was better than 2.0 times
each year; self-financing averaged 57% over the period FY71-79 and for FY79
was 25%; the debt/equity ratio at end FY79 was 52/48 having iacreased from
26/74 in FY71. Long-term debt has increased six times since FY75 as PEA
increased borrowings to finance the rural electrification program.
Future Operating Results (FY80-88)
48.       PEA is expected to maintain a high growth rate during the period
FY80-88. Electricity sales are expected to increase from 5,091 GlWh in FY80 to
15,288 GWh in FY88, an average annual growth rate of about 15%. To meet the
required investment, it was agreed to provide that the sector earn a rate of
return of 2% for FY81 and 8% for FY82 and thereafter (Section 3.02 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement) and as under Loan 1527-TH, continue the provision
that PEA should earn rates of return consistent with sector requirements
(Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Based on these rates of return,
the operating ratio would remain around 94% throughout the FY80-88 period;
debt service coverage on an annual basis is expected to vary between 0.9 times
(FY81) and 1.9 times (FY87); and the debt/equity ratio would rise to 67/33 in
FY83 but decrease below 60/40 by FY88 (Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Cost Estimates
49.       The total cost of the proposed project, including contingencies,
is estimated at about $270.0 million, with a foreign exchange component
of $102.4 million. Estimates are at early 1980 price levels and total con-
tingencies amount to 35% of the base cost. Physical contingencies were
assumed to be 3.5% for all items based on PEA's past experiences. Foreign
exchange costs were derived by applying escalation rates of 10.5% for 1980,
9% for 1981, and 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983 and thereafter. The price
contingencies for local costs were assumed to be 14% for 1980, 13% for 1981,
and 12% for 1982 and thereafter. Price contingencies represent about 32% of
the base cost.
Financing Arrangements
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $75.0 million would finance about 73% of
the foreign exchange component of the project. The items to be financed
include (a) equipment and materials (other than concrete poles) ($47.5 mil-
lion); (b) concrete poles ($10.4 million); (c) studies ($1.0 million); and (d)
contingencies ($16.1 million). The Saudi Fund for Development is expected to
make a loan of about $20.0 million equivalent, to finance conductors, being
about 20% of the foreign exchange costs of the project. The OPEC Special Fund
is expected to make a loan of about $8.0 million for the foreign and local
costs of concrete poles. The Governnent of Norway will provide a grant of
$1.5 million for carrying out two or more mini-hydro pilot projects. The
local costs of about $165.5 million equivalent would be financed by PEA
through internal cash generation and local borrowings.



- 18 -
Implementation and Construction
51.        PEA has the necessary design and construction capability to carry
out the proposed project. PEA's Office of Accelerated Rural Electrification
will be directly responsible for the coordination and implementation of the
project. PEA proposes to muster 44 construction crews. Part of the work,
such as concrete pole erection, will be carried out by subcontractors. Work
will be started first in the eleven Central and N4orthern provinces by
mobilizing 18 new construction crews. After October 1982 construction work
will be reinforced by addition of 26 crews on completion of the ARE I project
and work will start in the southern provinces. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1985. The feasibility study, detailed design and
construction of the mini-hydro pilot projects will be undertaken by PEA with
assistance from consultants provided under the grant from the Norwegian
Government.
Procurement
52.        All equipment and materials to be financed by the proposed Bank
loan would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines except that concrete poles (which are not easily
transportable and therefore are not suitable for international competitive
bidding) together with other minor items costing less than $100,000 each and
up to an aggregate amount of $2.5 million may be purchased through normal
Government procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In evaluating
bids, a preferential margin of 15%, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to qualified local manufacturers.
Disbursements
53.        The proposed loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of directly imported equipment and materials; (b)
100% of the ex-factory cost for equipment and materials manufactured
locally; (c) 65% of total expenditures for imported equipment and materials
procured locally; and (d) 47% of total ex-factory expenditures for concrete
poles. Disbursements for consultancy services would be 100% of total
expenditures. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1986.
Load Promotion
54.        Load Promotion.  A load promotion program prepared by PEA was
furnished to the Bank in December 1979 and agreed pursuant to Section 4.05 of
the Loan Agreement for ARE I Project (1527-TH). The program envisages PEA
making credit arrangements: (a) to enable small industrial and commercial
consumers to convert motive power from diesel units to electric motors; and
(b) to help domestic consumers, mostly the rural poor, finance the cost of
initial housewiring and connections. These arrangements are designed to
maximize the benefits of rural electrification.



- 19 -
It was agreed that PEA will undertake a pilot scheme to make credit
arrangements for eligible domestic consumers in about 80 villages in the
northeast. The experience gained would determine the need and scope for
continuing the scheme.
Rate of Return
55.       The internal economic rate of return is estimated at 15%, using
the economic costs and the average consumer tariff revenues and connection
charges as the minimum estimate of direct benefits and including other
quantifiable indirect benefits due to fuel cost savings, increased produc-
tivity of cottage industries and power tools, and savings in operating costs
of other motive power.
Benefits
56.       The project would provide electricity to 8,000 villages covering
about 1 million households and 6 million of population. It would produce
direct benefits from sales of electricity and connection charges, tangible
indirect benefits stemming from savings in fuel and operating costs and
increased productivity, and social benefits derived from improvements in mass
media, extension services, informal education, hygiene, child care and family
planning.
Risk
57.       With the experience gained during the ARE I project, PEA should be
capable of implementing the proposed project efficiently and no undue risks
or technical difficulties are expected.
Environment
58.       The project would have no adverse environmental effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Provincial
Electricity Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Article
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOIMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 23, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
"WLUM - socxU OxMCATou  M sUrr                         Page 1 of 5
"AZAWn                    IUMUU        COU95 (All
LAW AM   f900SANPSU:OEM"- mm&a
TDA              St, tAm                                                             SAKI     VE= KlGmU
ACILSTUlUL       179.6                                NS    UICUS      CIGMOMC    uIcowI          IJC01
1960  3L   1970 A  ZM.h  A   w          0U  a    G8001 LiC GOUP LL
mi iU CAPI!& WSS0)                   100.0        210.0     490.0           528.9      467.5       1097.7
Ot0 CON8W"SSOII PU CAUSS
(IIOCIAS 01 a^L gqnltt)             64.0       247.0    308.0             371.1      262.1       730.7
POPUATIO  LIE YLAL SUfAl81CS
POMLTI:S.N-TIEAR (WUDES)            26.4         35.7      43.3
UuIEU POPUGATtOU (tUCi  0 TOTAL) 12.0           13.0      140             27.4       24.6         49.0
IOIULAXIOU PDJ80TOUU
POPMEATION D TM  2000 (EML108)                          69.0
SZAfOCAt ?ossLTI0U (MILLIONS)                           105.0
TM  STATI:OUAAT POIULTIO  i A UAK                      2095
POMLAr=O 030r11
P   sq. MI.                       51.0        69.0       84.0           154.8       45.3        44.6
Mu sq. Mc AGZCUUTt. LAN          206.0       251.0      24.0            56.7       149.0       140.7
POPMLATION AM! SMU00103, (?ESCUT)
0-14 YU.                          44.7        4U.2       65.0            41.3       45 2        41 3
15-4  Ins.                         52.4        50.8      52.0 5a.9                   51.9        55 3
65 ns. ANhD hO?T                    2.7         3.0        3.0             3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATIOU G20WI.1 &AZZ (PUET)
TOTAL                              2.8          3.0       2.8             2.4        2.7         2.4
0134                               5.1         3.6        3.5             4.3        4.3         4.5
CRlD! S3 RATE (PER TUSAD)           44.0        42.0       32.0            30.2       39.4        31.1
CMEW DIAT! ISAT  (PI  TBDcsA)       17.0         12.0       8.0             8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS upmCTOx UNT                     ..          3.2       2.2             2.1        2.7          2.2
ACCEPTORS. A7AL (T80Shlrn)          ..        203.0   527.0
00  (PERCENT of m1          WD iit)   ..       27.4      32.3            34.1        3.2        34.7
FOD AS0 N0T110110
03011 or MD0 PIIODcOCTI
PM CAPUTA (1969-71-100)           64.0       100.0      110.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
M  CfnTL 50PPL. Of
CALOLIES (InCZUr o0
IE(tlUDIlS)                     96.0        103.0     107.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GU211  PM OAT)          43.5        52.2       50.0            57.4       54.3        64.4
OF W VIC! A8l6L AD PLC           8.4          ..      14.6             16.9       17.4        2.3.5
CUL)D (AGES 1-4) OMULZ11 SATZ        15.0         9.0       6.0             4.8       11.4         8.6
un  stl&lCT AT %Ur  (1161S)    51.0             57.0       61.0            61.1       54.7        60.2
rIATAV WOt?ALTT IA?! (PIM
28S 0   D)                            ..        86.0/1    68.0             4.6        68.1       4U.7
ACCSS TO SAE WVAX  (P3C3T 0O
?OVULATION)
TOTL                                ..        17.0       22.0            Z1.9       34.4        60.8
Ut                                  ..          ..       49.0            46.2       57.9        75.7
IIL                                 ..          ..       12.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
LCCSS TO COSTA DISPOSL (PIMc30s
or POPTAZIUO)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      40.0            28.1       40.8        /6.0
t                                   ..        65.0       58.0            65.0       71.3        46.0
RS                                  ..         8.0       36.0            14.7       27. 7       22.5
POPULAXIO! PER PTSICS             7800.0      S620.0    8370.0           3790.5     6799.4      U262.4
POPVLATrON PE  /WINSG P31         4900.0      3340.0    1510.0           1107.4     1522.1      1195.4
POPMA.ION PM. aoSPT.L %SD
TOTAL                           134.0      890.0      800.0           613.3      726.5       453.4
I;U41                               *-       280.0     240.0            203.6      272.7       253.1
SUUL                                *-      1380.0    1290.0           1110.3     1404.4      2732.4
AmISSIONS PnU 8SPITAL SD              ..         31.0      33.0            23.9       27.5        22.1
*VEIG6I S2ZE 0? SEUSOLD
OTL                                5.5/P       5.8        5.5             5.2        5.4         5.3
231                                5.3Lf       5.9        5.5             ..         5.1         5.2
EMAIL                              5.6/f       5.3        5.5             ..         5.5         S..
AVUAGE SUN   Of PnSO8 PE 
114L                                ..          ..        2.4             .-           -         1.9
01348                               ..          ..       2.2              ..         ..          1.6
IJIRAL                              * -*                  2.4             ..          ..         2. 5
ACCESS M0 sLECorIC7IT (Pr3cr0
01 DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       24.6              ..       2S.         50.0
UIAl                                . .        13.        .. * -5.I                             1.37
MRAL                                ..        13.20'       ...                        .9        17.3



- 22 -                                        ANNEX I
WtLM   - SOCIUL tICATORS DATA S8ET                  Page  2  of  5
SIIA7LUDn                          G  s  (ADUSTED APAS
-  SDT RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME       suuz      xr lGWE
MOST ILZCII    SZCAC          SNCOIZ     DixCC
1960 L     1970 /b ESTIATE Lb       UCSO  /c  cso8r /d   C1O1 /e
ZDVCATTOW
EISSD   SLU=S UtSOS
ID I:    TM"                     0.0         81.0      83.0            97.9       82.7       10.5
MAIL                9.0         85.0      86.0            96.7       87.3       108.6
FDIUL               79.0        77.0      79.0            97.4       75.8        97.1
SICUaZY:  I=L                    12.0        18.0      26 .0           42.2       21.4        33.5
MAIL                 15.0       21.0      29.0            46.7       33.0        38.4
138611               9.0        15.0      22.0            40.9       15.3        30.7
VOCATIUA  30.. (1 of S1CIh1T)    19.0            24.0      13.0            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACUR RATIO
PRNZ                             38.0        35.0      30.0            32.5       34.1        35.8
SCODAATY                         20.0        16.0      21.0            25.8       23.4        22.9
AWLT uTnAc'T SA  (1PW )   U 6.0                79.0      82.0            84.1       54.0        64.0
C0USU9PTTOU
FOORN CAR3 PU TH0CSA
POPOLATIOW                        2.0         5.0       6.4             6.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PU 110054
POPULATION                        6.0        78.0    131.0             84.4       76.9       122.7
TV UEOWS  PU 1S1008
POPULAXXDN                        2.3         7.0      17.0            22.4       13.5        38.3
NEPAM  (MAILY CGAI
Snzsr)  CtUULATlO  PU
-SwU0   POPULATION                 11.0        24.0        ..            24.2       18.3        40.0
CUmA AIUAL ATNDA          U M  CA    ..          ..       1.7             3.6        2.5         3.7
L      01.oP00cz (T1OUSAtD8)    12757.0    16163.0  18514.0
-c11  (P8gRNT)                   41.3        47.3      46.9            36.7       29.2        25.0
A5htICLT0Z (PUCMIT)              83.7        79.9      77.0            54.6       62.7        43.5
rUSTIy (P1CZWT)                   4.4         6.0        8.0           16.3       11.9        21.5
PAATICIPATTOK RATE (PECNT)
TOTAL                              51.3        46.6      45.6            40.7       37.1        33.5
iALZ                               52.7        49.3      48.6            49.9       48.8        48.0
.IALZ                              49.8        43.9      42.6            31.0       20.4        16.8
ECOWNOIC 083N30w3  R&ATIO             1.0         1.1       1.1             1.1        1.4         1.4
12gorz DISTKT1IOW
mCzr Or nIVAtZ nqcRI
UCZSvQD ay
HIGHEST 5 PUCI of WBStlOLDS    1.8/h         23.8/I   14.O/i           14.9       15.2        20.8
sIwumS 20 P       or 0F 100530.S SO.97N      49.77T    42.2j           46.8       48.2        52.1
LOWUST 20 PCT  0o ROSUSOLMS   Is.279          6.17      7.6             6.2        6.3         3.9
WVOST 40 P1CZIIS o0 30USJ0O1S   14.97Z       13.97?   19-'L            16.8       16.3        U2.6
POVMr TARCGT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ASSOLUOT 0OVZ9 INCaU
IZVLL (USS PU CAPITA)
UR                                 ..          ..    126.0            193.1      241.3       270.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      94.0           128.7      136.6       18.3
ESTIMTED RLuATTYR POVERTY 111CZ
LEVEL (us$ PU CAPITA)
n                                  ..          ..    115.0            136.8      179.7       282.5
IRUAL                              ..          ..    108.0            9%.8       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION SZOW ABSOLUZ
POVERTY nC0  LEVEL (PO1DWt)
RBAN                               ..          ..      15.0            32.0        4.         20.5
RUAL                               ..          ..      34.0            52.5       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NiOTES
/a   The adjusted group aversg   for each  ndicator are poacion-weighted geomecric  eans. euclading the czerems
valuas of the indicator nd the most popilated country in each group. Coverage of councries amo  the
lndicacors dependa on availability of daca ad is not inLforw.
Ib    Unless tcbaretso noted, daca for 1960 refer to any yar between L959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Racent Es'imrt. between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;  Id  Lower Kiddle tacom  (5281-550 per capita 1976);  /I  ratermediaca Middle
tncoma (5551-11S5 per capita. 1976);  if  1962;  LL  Perccnt of population in  sngk.ok metropolitan
area;  Ih  1962-63;  /i  1968;  Li  Preliminry data for 1975/76. due to lack of data on national
basis  the methodology ?r agSregating the available regional data overscaces incomes of low income
roaps and understcate  income of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any
analycical -oearisous;  /k  Government;  /1  1964-1965.
*oac Recent Estciace of GNP per capit is for 1978.
Augucs 1979



- 23 -                                                                          ANNEX I
DPVThTTIOI  OF SOCIAL EIICA70PS                                                                  PaRe   3   of   5
gote-   Although the data  u      lemtn    fro  source  gssraly judged the mst suthuritati- and reliable, it should slew  b. voted that they map sot bo inten-
.caly  uparble he-s  of the, iok of et-dts,,lised definitio.-  sd c.a.sPts ..sd by difrerent coutries in colecting  the data. The data aee, sussthelsss,
useful. to desc.ribe order- of  gasgitude, Ldictta trends, and oharaterine t.M.L. mjor difference  tetccencitriaa.
The sdjusted grop averages for each indicator are pcpu1.tioa-eighted geometric hen, nuciudhg the extreme, vauao  the indcatr and the tost poplated
-tonsy ic each grop.  D.e to laos of dtt., group averges of all indi-ators fr.  Capital surylo  Oil tprocra sod of  .indotoro  of Acces  to dater antd Ecreta
iti:pota, thosing, Isi-m  Diatrihutiot ad F.veety for other co-try groups are population-weighted ge.tme ,t -eo  otthout eclso    f thie.ctreme  -auaad
the   et pplte=Id.countryZ      ic;  h   oest  fcutissa   h  idictorsdt ecd    aea latli                              1Xtr of d tn ud i o  unfrm     -tion nist be roe . ied
idiontur at n time swa  the coutry and referten    rus
LAND ARPh (theusad sq.hs.)                                                                  hACes.o..       rt.lpoa   pren   fppuain                    toal.'ht::tdcra
To tal - Tonal edr?. aereoaprisag  land are  too inland eaters,                                Numbr ofPeoPletotl ra,sdrrl ardb _creta diposal 
Ogricuitucal -   tat encont etimate of sgriouturalsen use.d tmpsrsriip                Mecnnes of their resprotics Po.luos    urt dsoa   a    nl
or por-enetly fur crops  pstures, whet sd uitchs  gardes. or tc                            the collection sod  dipsl ith oaithout treatmat, of tums  os-vet
iefallow                                                                                 andut.-te;-ter by  ater-horan system   or the ue of Pit p-iote  art  :t..,al
dIP OP  CAPIAJ99)- 055?per cpita  stlastt tt  orreI   maktPrcs,I~P 12p,                         appug    Populatio'n div~ide  by numsr of praticing ph.liPn
'%iltil dii bpsm    osrit.  aethod as hunts Mo  Atine (197h-Ph hails);                          ii Tiieifae             .oa .nheci at unirversty  e
1960, lIid. acd i978 dta                                                                   Popultion per Naru-   Person - Popultion d-icdsd by oueb-ro  pactictng aalv
axTt Co-lfd   E   A  A-o  uicn~ino   srilnngsd fe...le graduate   uss  practioni mies  at aostuntcus.
(coal so  lignit, petrolum, oniral ga  sod tycdr-, oula   nsgec-                 pouaoorhoaoptla  beI               ca    rsiad  ruraI -FPc?slaiis  to.tal  urec,
thee.l eltri-ity) on kiiigr-   of coa  equivalst per cnpotu  1960,                           sodr-r1)  idIe    yterrsetc   ohro   optlid   otaie  to
197, sod 1976 datn.                                                                          pbli  ansprC      n  goeral ant spe.i-iied hostpit:!'sod rehabItiit-nio -ete-
Hospitals are eathllshments permaently sItffetd by at Isat one physii-.
POPULATIteN oNl VITAL STATIST1IC                                                               Estahliahaents providing prncpnl-ip custodial car  ar  sot Icoluosd. vra,l
Tota                                                                     -d4tn.atta    mlos  -O   fJl   ;i   90  ant  hopitals, ho.ecer, include health ant adial centrer  tot permaently  tcaiced
1977 'sate.                                                        ~~~~~~byn pyician  but by a mdicls ito,cre  sdoofe, etc.) ohi-h offer
Urban  tfsalati    cerost of total) - Rsti  of urban to total populationt                    toytlea   ac-alnad procid. a limited range of aedloa  fa-l-ic..
differen  deisitlons of urha   veac map effect -ap-raility of data                    Admuns..a  per dossit.1 nId - Total tnier of adminsi.a. to or dsotarge  from
smug coutries~; ip96, 1970, and 1975 dat..                                                 hcspitaio dicided by the cute   of hbds.
-                  ~~~~~P.tlat ica Proicecticns
Popaistiod In cear 200  -Current ppolatioc Pr-jotioss ar  hae  on. d(DUS 10
.975 ~titl population by ap   od ass and t-ei  martality and fertility                 ceAgs"  i-t of Houshol   pesnscvho               Idld) -total.  rban, end rural -
raes . ProJnction parsntera for -nrai,ty rtate  cpreof three                             A  co.ilcoit   of   grop oPf onhducitiL.  h  share livi..g ut-r  sod
lees   sIng life expectancy at bint trsin aith veatry'                                 their ad   mal. i. Aboarder or lodger sap or sy .tot. -c.cl-d to toe
per _sptt inom   level, ant featle lire-p -cctc   stbkilising atoebtfrcotltbaljIrpss
P75pas    h   aat-r  for fertility ra.telso  haetree  ees                    neaeubrfcso    e   om-ttluhsadrrl-hen.tmu
assmig decline Ic fertility  -ocodiog to  -nsm  level and pest                           of peruoca per roo  io all  rban, and -rurl occpied coec .                 -l eli~
.sily olsootg Perfomne  Pinh coutry is ctme assigned one ofthas ..                       e..peti-nlp.  loell1-ga  -ocide ton-perma t ucrtoture  and   -ctcpco  ctv
nine. coaitijoess of  Mortalty too fertiliop  treads for p-cietico                     hotess. to Elcotr-ot c    soso  telso (total, shmb                  adroa5'o
porposo-cetiocol daellistg  -ith eletriit  Ic living quater  as pe--rtgo 
Stutiontry pplto   -  n    tationay poPulatios thenisn  eventh                             tal,bua, sod rua- de1 ue    -pesptlely.
si-o  the birth rate in _qua  to the death rate, tot  also the ape
0trcture reasins ocs..tst. This in ohieved only after fertility rates              EtiCAOTION
decline to the replacenet level of onit net reprodutico rate, cast                     Ad.oonted  2orolost7tatoc
eachgeneraio o" f emC repae   itself coactly.  The statiotar   Ppop-                     Praar  oco  -  tota    ale an:dl finae !       dos  tonal, asic ac   iae  -siol
lotion  tisoeet=astd onthe'basis of the proJected ch--t-rtics                              set of all ages at tie piay levl as   -ptrentgcs of  -e--et   prins
of tthe Cpopolntloo is theYear 2000, and tIe rtte of declin  of fertilt                    tobhol-age popuaticc-; noaly inudra chiloreo sgrd P-Il yenrO  cot
rae .t rPlnset leve.                                                                     adjusted for different  e-9tha of Primary  du-aioc-   --1ccriutt
fea  stationar  copultit Is reached - The fear  h.en st.ttio         y popuILaioa            unvra"euatcosoisn    .s oced 100 Posooc  01c- o-e  picilo
ohs, ha, ceen reached,iar teoI. r see  the offiotalcoI ap..
Pc.linfe_sty                                                                           Secoodary sca,. - total  mal  ao  emle- Computd at at. cv                -,occ.ray
Per co  .   -  its-year PPOLIttioc Per squar  ktlomtee (100 hctares) of                      educaion requir.  at latfu er   f approcdP priity ,tui.
totalae                                                                                    provides genral vocational, or teacher traloinginrui   -to   .pitylo
Per is.on   a               1iotua -ad - Coputed as acce for agriculturl 1sod                 .eoly of 12 to 17 y-ear  of age; corre-poadeCe  -orur   ,-.crlly
only.                                                                                      rocIued
PcyuInti       On  Irctre(eret) - Children :0-li pear), acritig-age                          Occativm  er-cotprcn   f  eodary  - Vccat,oa t.t..                      to.c   ctI.
15-ti  ears)  and  etire    i  year  and ..cri as perstuges of mid-yea                technical, Iootilo   te   rgram   edic  operat  -odep-nc-ly  rn
Peculation Ireth ht   prcn)-tota   - hA.u -l seo               t..es  of total mid-          P'pltahrr"sciay    n                           'ecor  - Tonl studnts ccro [lcd  10
yea  poulaioo  fr 150hO,195-70  ss 1 .7.Priay  o  seod ar  levels dvidd  bycuir  of teac.hers  -v tie cr
Psoelatic- Groth Rsos 'p.ret  -lb- - huAl1 grosth rates of urha                                 spooding ircela.
popolnoto.. for1.l      O  10-0  19       197-70                                           Adulit lit.eray rate .    eet    Liter..t  edu1to  able to read tot oitets
Croon birth hate (pr hosad) -   _nol lice hiroti per thvusc  of aid-                            nporeccapg  of total adult populatioc ageO  1, ye-r  end  c
year  poplatin  190, 1970, too 1977 dta.
Crude Death Oats (per thuad) - Annual deaths per thoutand  t -it-year                    Cl5ilIhPfldl
drot hvIodi' tics -adtei- Poerog  tute . r o   oagtnsts   001ear                            setn   estanegtpro_;ecld.abuacs   eres-trltr
op- Lif IC fe,t lJity rateat ipally fioe-ycr ucranacding to. 1900,                       hadic Recier ~pee thoutad populti-) - Oil typos o~f erec-ivrs tr rei-
1~970, sod1 1975.                                                                           brcadonits to georal public per thocutod of population; e-cludes-1 u lor-r
Esily  _155m   -Acceptors. hunua  (thoosunda) - A-Iua  canker of                           -r- - icer  toovontries and to year   h.. oe  regi~l.ttra     of cav.' vets 000 t
-veptor  of birtho_ntrol deiesuder ..uspice  yr ostion..l fsmily                           effect; tac  fcr rect year  amy not he coparable stev   -f  c-.ttiea
plunolog p_roga.                                                                           tbc1ishnd licenein-g.
rumMy ~Plezsa  -              .ses  pecet of carried -omae  -IPercee,tap   of sscred       TV heei-r   0ev tsvua-d coplaton)--- rorirr-fo
.ose   ofoild:b-hai   age  bI-ipas   c   s   irth-csrobeooe                              ihl  per thcusam   poplatia  eodsonICee   TOVeicr                          ov-trir
to all svied  -oe  Is es    g  group.                                                      unt In y.ear  sh.. reiat,tiratn of -Tot. ws            effect.
Ceupce  Crclaio   (ertbasndcoaltu h)      - ho   the          --rLvcrclnt-v
FOODb AND0 NRffTtM                                                                              f"al   enrlitrs tea pr,dfleednoaperiodica  piblivatlvc
Indec of rood vduotico per Cata107.0)- 1sd.o of per  .apit                                   devoted priaily to lenoroing general.  ea.   It I             sdrooe'diy
amui  rduto   ofal  fcodr csdities.  -roolo    oLdes costd ad                      if itu.ppearsot least four cimastera
feedand  a 00caledaryear Oasi-   Comdities ICover primary goods                   Cinem  Aon.ual Attend-en   per Cpcit see Year-   aced ccthe cun-er of f,k-r
ie.g. sigaroaneiosteadof suga) ouch  re  edbleto  vonal_t  uarnt                tod.d duig the year,  o.cluding                     --iotn   o  rc-  toenen   cotnin
e..g. cvffeeso  tin  ar  eoded.  Aggraeprucinoncsostu                                     sts
Pe   ap  t rl'y-o   alre   p-1ernl frounsns   Compued trt                       lo th  Of
-reeg   eqvlept'ot   foo  oopls  viuiciootry pee  -apits                               Totllbo   oc  (thosaou-Ecnoically .t-to   Peratas.so l.dioi  tree
Per.,       eial  ople   osro  dometic production, imports  ot                           fre   ndoepoc             c  e Cclds g thsr tcs   aoents,~~ etc  Irtoi
sports, sod chsgeu  on otoCk.  bet AoPPILea coclude s-an  feed,.seds,                   1.-1. -stoo  otrios  ar  cot coentr1ile.
q_at itiesuset  food peocestog, tots -ase               toiuttribt-o. Requirel          eal        et  -   m le Itoo   fc         aperet-       eo  tisisI lbor frce.
metssreetimated by FAO bsaco on phys-iolgical oreCi I.,rorma                    p~j~u~jy              (-Lb-r 'on   tefinon   forestry, htuntg sd
soticity snd health eC...id-r  g cc-iv  ostta1 tepe...ur-, hdy sstghtt,                "'f'bijsesitg    f total Inhor forc.
ape ant sen vist-ihutiv-   .0 popoltio   sod   lsn   1  percet for                     Industry  vereeto   - 1L0c  fore to mlitig,  -ont--tnc,  -ucfactur-g ad
sasir at houte.hold i1-el                                                                electricty, otte  and gau asperetap   of total 1.bcr force.
Pre  -anits  Posyo   rtt  'rm    e   s) -Prtein  -stet  5t Per                           Parti-pcips .o hate lo(   os -toa,saead tenle-ari  iptoco
cait etsppl  cf foo  pr  t. be   upl   f fsod It derloed asetivity ratesare cmputed as  totl,mleatsfmaeit f                                             orce_ asern-
above.R eqoumeta for all countris etblishd by USDAe provide for a                         -etgpes of total, eale sod femal  popati-  of all apes respenti-eLy;
*                      misimum~~~~ew  alfioa-e  of ho grs cf total prte.s pee dsp sno 20 gra   of               160. _1970, ant 1975 dats.  Thss- ar  lIflo  paroi-ptioe  -stss rfrlnctlrg
animl sd polar proteis, of shich 10 gram   should be soima  prptela.                    age-se  s~truturn  of the Population, ant loss tiac trend.  0Af_  taimates
Thes  standrd  tie  loose than those of 75 Elsm  of total protein ansdr  fro .sa Ital  tsce.
23 gras ' of aima  potcis  -* -n aenr     for the vend, proposed by rAOb               ?--IC Depsodesso  Rsti  -  hstio of popultloa inds  15 sod 05 tot over t0
Ia the Third   orld Food  u-vey.                                                         the 1.1c  fove  is aegrou-p of i5-n  years.
Per  s.ic. proten  sonIc from ama ant pulse -Prteis supply of food
Child (aes 1-0)  urtallt  nate be   thousad)   A.honul deaths per thoseand       teesi    o   yessInoe(hn             -I th smd hiad) - besest. s by noiet
isae  ru  1-I.  ears M ~ tot olldgen i-tI  aegoP; for meat devel-                          9 percent, vtohstt  d pret,    erst 10 percet, sdpoorest  0 P-r-en
tying voctriet data derived fe_  life tables.,                                             cf hstashsiA.
011TH                                                                                      POVERfTY TAGIOV  GlUOP
Life inatap-     a    it h 9(er)- ice...C.nuhe, vf pears of lire                             tTt7-MdAhanI~t,Ptverty bveom  `eP 03   e                   anc l b-"ea  ss Mrurl
remaltig at brth; 100, 197, and 1977. data                                         Ahsointe pove rty Iooe  ee  i   ht incm             es_    hleeihamiml
ic?- at acridity hate (pee thouss-di - Annua deaths of isfants adre oms                      out-itioaaly tdsiquts diet plu  ea...s.tial own-food reqotana t   not
pear of ape Per thousand live births.                                                      affordbie.
Ocesto itfe  Wtae   ,ersst of cPaPlatn-Ot alua.soEurl-taimatets alative  -evetyIno     Lve   US$ pe- aia)-tr    mad rural 
slumber of Peol  )tca, tr0ha, tot rural  sath'e -esshe  cest                                 sa   eatc    oety iwom   ee   soettd  faesepropt
""' n ete  supply (Includes treated asefec  saters or untrented hut                        persanl isesm   of the coutry. teen  Il I.is derived from  the rura  leI..I
-notsmiosted eat-  s.ch as that from petene  uole              s,1 springa,                thsdsmeufor higher cot of living in orhb- res
sets seits  asesis) an Per. stps f their  -psctiee popalaIoss. it                        Put-tate   PnnultJsa      in  .h.lt      Pcrty.iitewme    Iel  gn0yp5...pan-
amoha   re   puhIlo fcMt=l  or  tendpase inated non --r tan                              redr. - P-rato   pouain(ra   at  ua)woar    hdueoC
000matesfro   ahos.  ~becoselere  a   hug sithi. rsaombl
aces   f tpet ease.  I. rura  -rs  ros bels anoms  -oud imply
that the boutnife or aers. of the houehsld Ow eon have t  spend aW.ssgi  sa  Social cans Ditesau
dlpeatoaspar  of the d.Y Is fatohissg the family. a stx  asdi.Cawit  tA..4abs ant PsJ-jatls bspastmst
A.6det 19T9



-24 -
ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 5
1972 La  t79        Ifil60      1985        194-77        LAW-7    '1A7            Lama-8       ci 00? 1
mItl.l) ,,  009     1979 prc-)
.rc..  do..c0ic 700di.cl  6.42.S    10,122.0    11,71~~'I2.4    11681.5  I,18 38. 8    19 3951 Z   20.692 .9   29, 256. 7         7. 7         7.8          7.)L          7.0        184.8 9
2.  11.00. leo. cerco of cr84.  -46.2     62~~4z.8  -507. 7      -978.1         .104. 9    1 2 35.4   -1.672?.0   -1 .94.5                                                                 2.
1.  Tre.o d....cic  10cc..   ~~6, 799. 5    10,361.8    11, 204.1    11, 707.4  1 7,030. 0    18,1L56.81   It,229.4    2 7. 293.9        7. 2          7.03         7.0           7.0         94.81
I..  .porco                    I~~~~~~~~~~.619. 9  2.984. 8  2,699. 1    6. 60.8  .04.9        1, A 5017.8  9,6640.4    7,3507.8          3.86         6. 7         6.7?         6.8           MI.
~~.  9:.pcro. - .ci~~~~.c    -I, 595.12   :,.I: .     -3.808 -     -4,~ 10:.8   -.157.91    -1.07.6          .1,12)    9.44.             9..           61           80            8726.2
i~pr.-oI..0   for T11     SI 4.        21   .       3  0.        3  2. -6.068.4           0-2.8190      -09.         4081. O.                       6.           80            8.I 210
Re.rn,rrc 909   .4300004                   T         ]O   7 -152                04   9    -    390    4                      
L.. TOT                             II:0.0      671.9        398.4       9132.)       8M7. 9    -8.263.8   -1.401.3   -L.489.3                                                                     2.
S.  To-.   "c00980                       ,323    80087.0   ti. 709.7   12,370.3           13.0626        626  1      1,084        072.              7.           7.L.                        .          74.
3.  6.1ioc..i  .6111n38  7,976.6   2,100.8      3,6~~~~77.   3,317.5      3,808.1       3.80I8,8    4.011,1    6,12S1.            6.6           8.1          7.9.8                      2.
fcr TOT                            .6497,2    7,338.7      3,6495.     3.337.)       3,967.6      3.943,6      6,129.8     6,573.7           6.8           .7.9.3                                22.2
I,.ra  *0 00,0        $86,3.                       6,363.3   16,236.3   78,184.4         21.UI .8    28.216.1   29,380.9    "I,776.6             13.3           's L7.8     11.8'        13.6
a. S-co  D-.,u
(ghor of (MP)1
1.  0e8c,1t.r.           0.391        0.364       ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~0.:30)  0.211  0.271  0.266        0.2881      0.1224
2.  104.0007                   0.~~~ ~~~~~~~208      0227  0269     0.288         0. 29         0.306       0.30         0.339
7.  S.r c.0.601                                        0.'27       O., is       0.638        0.630         0.432        0.32        0.I
( rc.11879    100)
I .P.  p.00   91-cc 104c                  4.4          6506        91.68         9.38         4.1         111.68l:    129.06       171.0           1.6          1.           7.              O')
2.   .90cVic        .                   47.76 6d 7.11           16.7          1.12        1730          176         169.It       726.2           7.3           6.          6.80
3.  7.,.  of  -rd. lode_                  97.22       10L.8        8667         70.30         73.80        79.161        1          75.60         -1.8           I.3         1.1           O.1
CD, 217 cl.t.r (0868                    39.27        63.39      103.64      108.82        116.07        130.00      14233. 00    206.32          5.2           68          7.2           6.7LL
-.gcl c.g  .ec.koo  r-tc            30.8n        20.80       20.40        20.60        20.39
0  k,~~~~8029gJ~~~~k5100L5 ~~~1965-77                  1977-79      197"S4          MI8-80
.  1C00                                                 316          :3.3        3.80          3.47
2   loecc:cIlp.0                                                     .7          0.609
3   L. 60808   ... tlcAI 09   rt                        0.2         T.2         0.1           02
4.  9603)..)  -.1-01 80895cco010                                    01           0.23          0.28
9.  1.9.rc.100P                          ~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~0.2  0.2  0.26     0.2
6.  Iccc.t...t/0l9                       0.2~ ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~    ~~7 0.28  3.2  0.2
7. s.co    ..10?                                 0.06        0.06         0.05         0.03
#4010elt.0e                                   ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~4,359  31.3      134I          9.                              360        64,2
3.  Sorclc..                                      5.088~~S S    38.3                       29          16.4                           1.930        3.
Ta2.Li-,s..                                              14.349        la--                        17.7       100.                              320        100.0
7. 906110 180c ii fit MP) IC..c-..  0ccc0t           .I.a         19           L91i         .i21         1876        .i1!.l La    I"?
3.  OC-ct ..p..dl....100   10.10.7                                                             12.1        13.0         12.8        13.2
4.  t480.7 800:                                         .81        L.2          3. 7          1.3         0.4          1.2         1.6
8.T..tol  l61c  loct...                                6.1          7.7         2.0          4.9          9.3          9.6         1.3
C. PO    .c   Cecc08*lc.                                     63.0       112,0        6781.6       71.7         832.7       923.       1,146.0
(I of1c.      -9cc  to. WI)                               8.3          0.0        13.4         20.0         21.1         19.7        19.1
J. ft.L1.9 ... y.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oe..89
AtcorO         6t  010.



-   25   -                                                         ,., PI    5
tIAACIf or PATllTS. rXT1R9AL AS5             WI  AtMD C1IOD!TWIMTHOMASS
(Corront US0 $IIlon)
Aetot lProeleced
1973     1974      19l     1974      1977      1978/s   19719       L90        1981      1990
Su  rr of I le,o of Pft_  t.
S porte (Iorldldon  7F5)                             2 084.7  3 025.4  2 794.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4,930.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,467.7
taportt  (eclodn I.d    88)                          2,258.3  3,353.2  3,418.3  3.911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   4.140.0   9,460.W  13.904.5  24.650.4
sesoqre  blooee                                      -173.6   -327.6   -609.8   .421.3 -1.064.4    -989.2  -1.840.0   1.800.0  -1,069.5          317.3
not factor  r"cvlo ieome                                -20.8     -0.7       5.4    -41.4    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0    -300.0    -925.0  -1.412.5
met Interest rosmoet                                    7.0     36.0     69.0      26.1     -4.0      -69.4    -100.0    -210.0   -766.9  -.1I17.7
Of hdch oc pblilc M 4 LT loos                      -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8   -133.1    -174.5    -487.1    -882.0
Dit ect Ov.ett tcaso.                                 -28.0    -37.0    -64.0    -66.1    -68.5       -72.8      -75.3     -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
Vorker. re-ltteece. (n t)                               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      22.9       24.3       34.4      48.2
Currut tt esftr. (oat)                                 145.5    241.0      80.1      22.8     39.3       40.4      60.0       80.0      100.0     110.0
"lance o  correot acoit                                -48.9    -87.5   -605.3   -440.0 -1.097.6  -1,103.4  -1.990.0  -2.020.0  -1,894.5   -985.1
Private direct 1-veteent                                47.0    135.6      S5.5      79.1    106.1       50.0      60.0       75.0     276.3      487.0
Grots & gr4rt-like flow                                   0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
P4b1, H & LT l ..
Dlsb.reeowatm                                          69.0     95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6       739.5     900.0   1.010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
Asort1otloe                                          -28.9    -32.3    -3S.7    -43.4    -47.8        -90.7    -164.11   -222.1    -620.1  -1.092.7
Net dlebursenents                                      39.2     63.5    110.5    196.3    274.8       648.8     735.9      788.7   1.340.3   1.604.9
Other 1 4 LT losos
Diob-reetO                                            178.9    326.2    399.6    279.7    311.8       501.3     900.0   1,150.0   1.393.0       462.2
Aoortiatio                                          -223.1   -197.2  -235.1   -245.9   -264.2   1467.2   -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1,167.8
lIt disbre.eMnte                                     -4.2    129.3       64.5      33.8     47.6       34.1     380.0      550.0      542.4   -705.6
0ge of 71Q  reorcea                                       0.0      0.0      0.0      77.1       1.8     181.4     30.0       200.0     -30.0        0.0
Short-ter!  capitol trmsactlo_                           42.0     55.5    127.5    134.2    236.2        84.0     120.0      250.0     180.1      252.6
Capotel trsoo.ectoo-  EII                                57.9     96.3     77.2    -11.4    136.2   -371.9          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Cheay. In -reere   - - l*cren_)                       -113.0  -392.7    040.1    -73.0    275.0         476.9     494.1      176.3    -424.8    -654.5
Net forego ecchge reservw  Ib
(md of perSod)                                     1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8       659.9      166.0       10.0   2,636.5 3,320.9
Gr.ot nd 10.  Comltseat.
Offictol granto                                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Total pblic t * LT l0s                                  87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   1,220.0
I82D                                                  15.0    142.0      95.0    158.0    137.8       256.0
IDA                                                   25.0       7.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       33.1
Other   ltl.tero.l                                     6.4      77.2     62.7      92.1     47.0      194.7
Caveromnots                                            24.0    200.5     47.7      22.2    106.4      312.0
0f wbctb centrally plenned sco.omm0.    I            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Suppliere                                              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0
fioe-citl tootiroalo..                                 16.7      9.7     18.0    100.0    34L.9       423.7
Otbhr t & LT loon  (h.ere e  illble)                    178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    346.9       531.8
meandus ltgav
Grant *l_ ot of total commtmntst (3)                    .900   31.400   16.700   11.S00   10.200    14.869
Av"ree  atore-t (2)                                     0.044    0.057    0.076    0.061    0.080       o.on
Avereae eat.rity (years)                               29.100   23.6N    23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
H dtD-  ad Lo.x-TorO Debt (DOeburoed 0.1,)
Total debt ootst*gdio6 (DOD cod of perlod)             903.9  1.160.7  1,345.6  1.606.8  1,931.9  Z691.0
l7clvdoeg aed1o*brsed                                1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,40Al.0  3,145.9   4,594.3
Public debt ervt.                                      -54.9    -60.4   -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
I -tereet                                              -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -100.7
Otber N & LT debt uervte                              -255.8   -246.8  -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
Total debt fervlt.                                    -310.7   -327.2  -387.7  -333.6  .490.6    -796.7
Debt *urdea (Z)
Det   rvi. r-tio                                        14.8      10.8     13.9       9.6    12.2        16.1
Debt -irv.c  rtIo Id                                     16.2     12.0     16.2      11.5    13.9        17.6
Debt ervlic/CDP                                           2.9      2.5      2.7       2.0     2.7         3.6
Poblc debt rvloo/Oover.t revteoe                         4.3       2.5      3,5       3.7     4.4         6.3
Tom (2)
Ietereet oe total DOD/totel d1ob.ree.ents                5.7       5.3      5.6      S.4       5.7       5.6
total debt  -rv1-ec-e r-e-t roven_                       12.4     11.8     11.9      10.7     12.0       19.6
DOeodencv MCI, for 1t 4 LT Drbt (S)
Crmea  dl-b.rooe.atol/.port. (Jorlodt.9 175)             11.0     12.6     12.9      13.3     10.9       21.0
Wat trmererllupOrt. (tIncdlot 9rS)                      -2.8       2.8      1.8       4.8      2.0       10.2
let traesierf/ro.. dlaborse,.t.                        -25.3      22.5     13.6      36.0     18.4       48.7
IU1 diab.ree.ent/gro.s tot-l diab.reetoe               14.6       6.8      9.1      *.3      12.0       9.3
ledk Creep d8ebor_nt/rro ms tot.l dleb.rooeato    14.8             8.3      9.7      9.5      13.6       9.9
lSIID 800total DOD                                      24.2     20.8      20.0     18.6      17.9      20.2
S_k Cr.p OD/ttotl WDO                                   24.2     20.9      20.4     19.2      16.9      21.3
ID debt  ervicelt/ttl debt crvltc                        8.0       8.S      6.3     10.9       9.8       7.8
ook OCtr  dbt  ervlce/totel orvtOc                       8.0       8.5      8.3     10.9       9.8       7.8
Ixternal Debt (Dtebrosd ooLYl)                        O.ttadOoc 12/31/78
fGCrr_t VS$ millgge1                                    t           2
IU6D                                                    434.8     24.5
Bask Groop                                              459.3     25.8
Other _ltilatersl                                      257.5      14.3
Oovar__t4                                               549.2     30.9
Of AebOch cotrily pl_meed 0om000000 Le                 0.0       0.0
S.ppllers                                                 9.0      0.5
flnancial iotitutioos                                   502.1     2S.2
o.d.                                                     0.0       0.0
Tot.l poblic 1t 4 LI debt                             1,777.1    100.0
Other 4 A LI debt                                       913.9     51.4
Total poblic debt (Inloldjog undlsb.r-ed)            3,680.4    207.1
Total It 6 L  debt (lacledieg udleburetd)            4,594.3    253.5
k  Net foo*4IS  aotes US$ eq-lv nt of LI-e 31.                                                                                              Ocober. 1979
|.SI lcle.s OtrA cotrces, People. Repeblc of Chlse, llrth  o             brtb Viet -
Id  ocIldleg  mt direct tveetoet Ico..



- 26 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                    388.90    5.50    -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      15.40        -    2.78
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            37.00        -    0.77
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Highways       28.60        -    -
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   19.50    2.59
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -    7.00    0.95
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           75.00        -    8.34
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water              55.00        -    0.11
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -   67.58
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.84
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    3.05
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber         50.00        -   31.58
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00        -    4.29
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      31.00        -   20.25
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.00        -    7.42
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture   28.00         -   20.75
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -   37.67
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          50.00        -   26.04
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                              Industry        4.80        -    3.12
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/b 33.01
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Transport.   110.00         -   64.32
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00          -   22.61
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing         8.60        -    7.64
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90          -    0.21
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -   17.18
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban           16.00        -   14.00
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways        16.70        -   16.70
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           80.00        -   80.00



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.00   35.0
929      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.00   25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension       40.00       -    40.0
1773     1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline         107.00/d         107.0
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation          80.00            80.0
Total                                                        1,598.10  125.10  879.0
of which has been repaid                                     214.70    0.09
Total now outstanding                                        1,383.40  125.01
Amount sold /c                       68.62
of which has been repaid           43.21                      25.41
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,357.99  125.01
Total undisbursed                                              782.45   96.55
/a  This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of March 31, 1980
/b  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
19691  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
19751                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials               28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials           36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             73.98    9.51       83.49
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           48.86    2.56      51.42
Net held by the Corporation                         25.12    6.95       32.07
Total undisbursed                                   34.00        -      34.00



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /
(As of March 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflected ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. Consequently, civil works are expected to be
completed by June 1980 and equipment procurement, by September 1980. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of
26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment and the remainder have been
recruited. Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research
and extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented
by the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; nearly all
recipients have completed their training. Total project cost will exceed
appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9. 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Nearly all fellowships have been
awarded. Staff training programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as
does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its nonformal education
programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have been acquired, and construction is expected to be completed
by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for most furniture and
equipment have been prepared; and (iv) technical assistance consultants have
been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of March 31, 1980, $0.8 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date:  August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$21.7 (83%) had been disbursed as of March 31, 1980. Local telephone network
expansion is a few months behind schedule. The project is now expected to be
completed by the end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule, and to be
fully disbursed by September 1981.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by
about 9-12 months. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas
and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation
of other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been completed
and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved considerably.
The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5
million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being higher than
foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals over an
area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the
adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component has been
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several different
disciplinary groups.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30. 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in March 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. Procurement
of vehicles and equipment is delayed due to difficulties in reconciling the
language used in existing bidding documents with recently introduced
government regulations on procurement.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975: Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are behind schedule, but project completion is
still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion dam is
progressing well and RID expects to award a third canal contract in
time to commence construction during the next dry season. About 4,500 ha of
on-farm development was completed in 1979. Thus, total area provided with
on-farm development is now 9,000 ha or 10% of the project area. All studies
financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 15,500 ha were completed in the 1979
construction season bringing the total area developed to 22,000 ha, which
is in accordance with the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
February 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30. 1986
This loan became effective on April 2, 1980.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1985
Preparation for the first year of project implementation have been
satisfactory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies
have no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The seed
production and pasture development programs are progressing well and the
loaned-bull and artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the
delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30. 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17. 1977; Effective Date: September 1. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. The quality of
training, particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further
improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and
technical support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension
results have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of
small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, and in improve-
ments in home gardens. The civil works program is about two years behind
schedule because of high inflation and, until recently,



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
the low unit cost ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau. It is
expected that contracts for all remaining civil works will be awarded before
October 1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is on
schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works
program. Consultants continue to provide excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initiating delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
All the project preparation activities and preliminary engineering
have been completed.  In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the Second Gas Pipeline
project.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1773  Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1021  Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May
1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. Although MWWA's
proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased operating costs
were approved by Cabinet, parliamentary opposition has put these tariff
increases in abeyance.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15. 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
After an encouraging start, the project's overall progress has
slowed. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role of OCMRT in
guiding project implementation. The policy package featuring area road
pricing has made little progress in gaining acceptance. Recently, a healthy
dialogue on the role of various agencies took place that may help to push
the implementation of the project. Tangible project progress to date has
been largely limited to the installation of a computer-controlled traffic
signal scheme which has been a technical success.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977: Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
On-site infrastructure has been progressing. Bunding, drainage,
and three of the four deep wells have been completed. Substantial progress
is being achieved in road construction, sewerage, and water distribution.
Land sales have been very encouraging with nearly all of available plots
either firmly committed or being negotiated, and are well ahead of appraisal
estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average sales price of B
300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai
in the appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial demand for the Export
Processing Zone, IEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full
development is expected by mid-1980.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected
because of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. This has much
improved. The IFCT's capital structure and liquidity position have
improved, however, with successful share capital increases. Satisfactory
progress has been made on the institution-building aspects of the project.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Prolect; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Due to initial staffing problems, key project activities were held
up initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
THAILAND
SECOND ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of about two years
(1977/1978).
(b) Project preparation was undertaken by the Provincial Electricity
Authority of Thailand (PEA) with consultants financed by USAID.
(c) A Bank mission reviewed the Power Sector, including the proposed
program for rural electrification in 1979.
(d) Departure of the Appraisal Mission: February 8, 1979 (but updated
in December 1979).
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 25, 1980.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September, 1980.
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) PEA will employ consultants to carry out an operations develop-
ment study and a study of mini-hydro schemes in Thailand (paras.
44 and 46);
(b) The Electricity Sector will earn rates of return of not less
than 2% for FY81 and 8% in FY82 and thereafter (para. 48); and
(c) PEA will earn an annual rate of return consistent with the
Sector's rate of return (para. 48).



100t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 A- 0
I'                                               THAILAND
BURMA                  SECOND ACCELERATED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
20'       /                   Y/,                                                  -$ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREAS25
-20-                                                                  FR P51 ,ROECT AREAS (LOAN 1527-TH'
Mae rEal3 SoIl  /    ,/. z  )                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~P005V3N  AL BOANDAR ES
o                                                                                            R SO4~    ,EEG ORAL BOUNDSARIES
'?                                                                    3 -    -   DI1ERNJAT ONAL BOUNDARIES
)     chian9Maie    t          )< X m g   LAO
48               - Lomhl PI W.                            p E C) PLE'S
t 7          NV? LaE4OaESJ'<           4             DEM   REP                      e-
)  [I                                            -/NC  r HX zo       . a w t 
:A                                          J                                                       i,',5---A      '"'
F4==L Ed- -, S      Tl   h              tK              //"w  00,0w  oR,E9 3.1
)  d. sTs.I,
! i , = _it    \   N                               ShohdSahran        KEI,8Kh -  K-  
,       /i.  E akham 5.i  C'rL A   ,, E  Uk  n  9 aE             16-
Xt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .NC)RHA                                                                       L~
I '                         * * *                       -           )           W   *  *   7 t-o~N    R   K. .
'~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ sV 3   CEFD                           V                     K                  /   ' :,  ;:    !:  ;;t;5    055tl          THaR/7 zz Z
)N.kh~~~~~~~~m        .)   ,SKF
Th- oLopEuF                                Su_ SaP
I~~~ J/
IA' |    '  <<';           '-    f 'i1  j  ld    0                     ff; B LK
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                ,  I.9s_a ndmv *)<APUHA.) 
D  z74     %$1   OtEFT        wot       5asn on /7            50   PROjECT loG Sle a1 -II OOS
K/////           -7iTo- eVtc 0 6hbNesD   
K/A      TSSmASitIBtKA0EnaI/              72,/ .0h 'nJ            SQOe aSNSISL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~J>                                        )t'                     /0        2         00 300 OE,joNa hrt_I 
Mlles ~ ~ ~ 07                     -3&85     'F                            '      3> , 4S   6I PSEE                            005    |
.: t00'       M A L A Y S I                         EOS\LI4N                        54, EIc
ij                                                                                    ST          130~~~~~~~~N- I
4  /   CEg                                      OSMESEET    EEES       lEE         054~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.
N(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'7a?                                                                                       S
~~G,//   of   rh o4 /0 a ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    El            FE        EOT         11
8   lETNES        SE         0          lE
75  V  REFOSSEFE         TEl       ~~~EEP      03
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                               545POO               E         5           6
EEFOEEOEOS        THA04  AND             F
~~~~~~~~:  A~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~W f.                                            24  EFANIF5e4                        S 
0  100  200        300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  000                                                     6         S           5
0  100               200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 300                                          453        05         IE
KFSF                                                         05133.           14341      0310        :88~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IGAOR
ii                                                                                          ____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
00 ~~~~~~~~10'MAASI'NFI



