LOAN NUMBER 1871 TR
Loan Agreement
(Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Dated      od                      , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1871 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMR,NT, dated     1d                            , 1980,
between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
(hereinafter called the Borrower), a body established and opera-
ting under the Provincial Electricity Authority Act, B.E. 2503
(1960) of the Guarantor.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Kingdom of Thailand (hereinafter called the Guar-
antor) intends to contract from the Saudi Fund for Development
(hereinafter called SFD) a loan (hereinafter called the SFD Loan)
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000) to assist in the financing of Part
A of the Project under terms and conditions to be set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the SFD Agreement) to be entered
into between the Guarantor and SFD, 3nd the Guarantor intends to
relend to the Borrower the proceeds of the SFD Loan;
(C) the Guarantor intends to contract from the Government
of Norway, a grant (hereinafter called the Norwegian Grant) in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to about one million five
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to assist in the financing
of Part B of *the Project under terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the Norwegian Agreement)
to be entered into between the Guarantor and the Government of
Norway, and the Guarantor intends to make available to the Bor-
rower the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant;
(D) the Guarantor intends to contract from the OPEC Special
Fund, a loan (hereinafter called OPEC Loan) in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to about eight million dollars
($8,000,000) to assist in the financing of Part A of the Project
under terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the OPEC. Agreement) to be entered into between the Guaran-
tor and OPEC, and the Guarantor intends to relend to the Borrower
the proceeds of the OPEC Loan; and
(E) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following ueanings:
(a) "EGAT" means the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand, a body established by the Electricity Generating Author-
ity of Thailand Act, B.E. 2511 (1968), of the Guarantor;
(b) "MEA" means the Metropolitan Electricity Authority,
a body established by the Metropolitan Electricity Authority Act,
B.E. 2501 (1958), of the Guarantor;
(c) "Fiscal Year" means a financial year commencing Octo-
ber 1 and ending September 30;
(d) "Baht" means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
(e) "Guarantor's Electricity Sector" and "Sector" mean
the consolidated operations of the Borrower, MEA and EGAT;
(f) "First Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement
(Accelerated Rural Electrification Project) between the Bank and
the Borrower, dated March 9, 1978; and
(g) "First Guarantee Agreement" means the Guarantee
Agreement (Accelerated Rural Electrification Project) between the
Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank, dated March 9, 1978.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seventy-five million dollars ($75,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions' of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower -shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-fourth per cent (8.25%) per annum on thE princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. In order to carry out Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall (a) employ at a time mutually agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; and
(b) promptly following completion of the studies by such
consultants, exchange views with the Bank regarding their findings
and recommendations and the implementation thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine


﻿-5-
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and service financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their re-
spective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shn''I enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, ie tallations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment ol the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times carry out its
operations, manage its affairs and maintain its financial position
in accordance with appropriate engineering, business, financial
and public utility principles and practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent mavagement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice..
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plant, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.


﻿ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
.     (b) The Borrower shall ensure, through implementation of a
sample monitoring program acceptable to .the Bank, that appropriate
records are maintained in relation to the villages electrified
under the Project to permit analysis of consumer demand, costs of
providing services, effectiveness of various management and
promotional procedures, and the impact of the Project, for vil-
lages in selected areas, on development of local agriculture,
agro-industries, commerce, and living rtandards.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall hhve reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower


﻿-7-
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall from time to time take all such
measures (including, without limitation, seeking the Guarantor's
authorization for adjustments of the structure or levels of
its electricity tariffs) as shall be required to permit the
achievement of an annual rate of return on the average current net
value of its fixed assets in service consistent with the achieve-
ment of the Guarantor's obligation set forth in Section 3.02 of
the Guarantee Agreement.
(b) for the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate 'of return shall be calculated by
dividing the Borrower's net operating income for
the Fiscal Year in question by one-half of the sum
of the current net value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in service at the beginning and at the end
of that Fiscal Ye-r, expressed as a percentage;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means gross rev-
enues from all sources related to the Borrower's
electricity operations less all expenses of elec-
tricity operations, including cost of purchased
power and fuels, administrative expenses, adequate
maintenance and taxes or any payments in lieu of
taxes, and provision for depreciation. Interest and
other charges on debt are not considered to be
operating expenses for the purposes of determining
said net operating income;
(iii) the term "average current net value of the Bor-
rower's fixed assets in service" means the gross
value of the Borrower's fixed assets in service for
electricity operations less the amount of accumu-
lated depreciation and consumers contributions, all


﻿-8-
valued annually in accordance with the fixed
capital formation deflator used for public invest-
ment in the Guarantor's annual accounts; and
(c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, on the basis of realistic forecasts, review, not later
than April 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, the adequacy of its
tariffs to produce for the current and next following Fiscal Years
the annual rates of return specified in Section 5.04 (a) above,
and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review promptly upon
its completion;
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality of
paragraph (a) of this Section, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall at all times maintain in its tariff
schedule a provision for fuel and power purchase   adjustments to
increase or decrease the energy charges to its consumers to
compensate for changes in the cost of all fuels and purchased
power; and
(e) the provisions of Section 5.04 of the First Loan Agree-
ment are amended to read as provided in Section 5.04 of this
Agreement.
Section 5.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement, except as the Bank
and the Borrower shall from time to time otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the debt of the Borrower then incurred and outstanding would
be greater than 1.5 times the capital and surplus of the Borrower.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "incurring of debt" includes the assumption and guar-
antee of debt and any renewal, extension or modification of the
terms of the debt or of the assumption of guarantee thereof;
(b) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
such debt becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with the
loan contract, agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered into;


﻿-9-
(d) whenever in connection -with this Section it shall be
necessary co value 'in. terms*. of Baht debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, -obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or if such currency is not obtainable,-at the
rate of exchange reasonably determined by the Bank; and
(e) "capital and surplus -of the Borrower" means the aggre-
gate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower including accumulated surpluses and deficits
arising from the revaluation of net fixed assets, consumers
contribution and debt.
Section 5.06. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement, except as the
Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur short- or medium-term debt, including
overdraft. arrangements and bonds, if by such incurrence the
Borrower's total outstanding short- and medium-term debt would
exceed 10% of all debt of the Borrower, including its short- and
medium-term debt and the debt proposed to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of thin Section:
(i) short- and medium-term debt means debt maturing
by its terms within five years; and
(ii) the provisions of paragraphs (a), (c) and (d)
of Section 5.05 shall apply.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any part of the
proceeds of the SFD and OPEC Loans, the Borrower shall simul-
taneously repay a proportionate amount of the Loan then outstand-
ing. All the provisions of the General Conditions relating to
repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable to any
prepayment by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 10 -
(a)   the Provincial Electricity Authority Act, B.E. 2503
(1960), or the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand Act,
B.E. 2511 (1968), or the Metropolitan Electricity Authority
Act, B.E. 2501 (1958), of the Guarantor, shall have been sus-
pended, terminated or repealed, or materially amended, without the
prior agreement of the Bank; and
(b) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Guarantor or the Borrower to
withdraw the proceeds of the SFD Loan or the
OPEC Loan or of any other loan or grant
made to the Guarantor or the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor or the agreement or
agreements between the Guarantor and the
Borrower for the relending of the proceeds
thereof; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to. the sa-isfaction of
the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrover to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement or agreements; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified in
paragraphs (a) or (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
SFD and OPEC Agreements, and of the agreements between the
Guarantor and the Borrower for the relending of the proceeds
thereof, other than (if applicable) the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been satisfied, or other arrangements, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, have been arranged for the financing of the
goods and services covered thereby.
Section 7.02. The date                /'       , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the       General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General .Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Provincial Electricity Authority
200 Ngarm Wong Warn Road
Bangkok Metropolis 9
Thailand


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
PEA                                7991-PEABKK TH
Bangkok
Thailand
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
.Agreement to be signed in,their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /~
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth. the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment and            47,500,000           100% of foreign
materials (other                             expenditures,
than concrete                                100% of local
poles)                                       expenditures
(ex-factory)
and 65% of
local expendi-
tures for off-
the-shelf pro-
curements
(2) Concrete poles           10,400,000           47%
(3) Studies                   1,000,000           100%
(4) Unallocated              16,100,000
TOTAL     75,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in.
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or ia the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on tne importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to thas; end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increasc or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program of electrifi-
cation during the Fiscal Years 1980-86 and consists of:
Part A:   Accelerated Rural Electrification Stage II
Electrification over a period of five years (1981-85)
of about 8,000 villages in the Guarantor's Northern, Central,
Eastern and Southern Regions.
Part B:   Mini-Hydro Pilot Project
Feasibility study, detailed design and construction of
mini hydro pilot projects.
Part C:   Studies
The provision of technical services for the carrying out of
(i) a study on mini-hydro schemes in the territory of the Guaran-
tor, and (ii), a study of Borrower's operations development.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
.     beginning January 15, 1986
through   July 15, 2000                     2,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         2.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  6.60%
More than sixteen years but not
more than' eighteen years
before maturity                                  7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  8.25%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication Qf such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive biddingi (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in conncection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 19 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, without taking into account customs duties
and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale on
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of
this further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f.. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 20 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Each contract for the supply of (i) concrete poles, and (ii)
other goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
may be awarded either following competitive bidding procedures of
the Borrower advertised locally or following prudent shopping,
including at least three price quotations, and in accordance with
the Borrower's normal procurement procedures; all such procedures
to be satisfactory to the Bank. The procurements under the
.preceding sub-paragraph (ii) shall not in the aggregate exceed the
equivalent of $2,500,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods (other than the
concrete poles) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further moCification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 21 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the*reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of t*e original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /L d    -day of JdZ  - , 198 AL.
FOR SECRETARY


