Report No. PID9640
Project Name             Guinea-Bissau-Private Sector Rehabilitation (@)
and Restructuring
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Business Environment; Privatization
Project ID               GWPE1001
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Address: Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rua Justino Lopes, 74-A, Bissau,
Guinea Bissau
Contact Person: Dr. Issufo Sanha,
Program Coordinator
Tel: 245-20-34-95
Fax: 245-20-34-96
Email: psdp@sol.gtelecom.gw
Ministry of Transport & Communication,
Ministry of Natural Resources &
Energy, Multisector Regulatory Agency, Port,
Civil Aviation Authority,
Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Public
Administration & Labor.
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 1, 2000
Projected Appraisal
Date                     February 6, 2002
Projected Board Date     March 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Guinea-Bissau is one of the poorest countries in the world (ranked 169th
out of 174 in 2000), and has inadequate infrastructure and low social
indicators, in part the result of state-controlled development strategies
pursued until the mid-1980s. The authorities embarked on a reform program
in 1987 that continued through 1997. In 1997, Guinea-Bissau joined the
West African Economic and Monetary Union (Union Economique et Monetaire
Ouest Africaine, UEMOA). Progress in addressing the country's poverty was
interrupted by the armed conflict that broke out in June 1998, which
seriously affected the country's social and economic fabric. War-related
losses are estimated at about 50 percent of 1997 GDP. Real GDP contracted
in 1998 by about 28 percent and social indicators deteriorated. A
coalition Government was formed following presidential and parliamentary
elections held in late 1999 and early 2000, which reinitiated the reform
agenda. In early 2001, the coalition Government was replaced with a
Government representing the largest party in the National Assembly, which
has continued to pursue reforms.Main Sector Issues and Government
strategyThe Government's PSD strategy is based on two fundamental



principles. First, encouraging greater domestic and foreign private
participation in economic activities through privatization, infrastructure
reform and the rehabilitation of existing viable productive assets.
Second, enhancing the investment climate through legal and business
environment reform and improved supply chains for six sectors that are
considered key entry points by stakeholders. The origins of the
Government's PSD program dates back to 1987, when the Government adopted a
private-sector-based development strategy, after 13 years of
centrally-planned economic management. The program was deepened during
the 1990s, partly through a successful Trade and Investment Promotion
Support (TIPS) program implemented with Unites States Agency for
International Development (USAID) financing. This program focused on
studying and improving the investment climate, including legal reform, and
formulating strategies for the development of promising sectors or entry
points, including cashew nuts, fisheries and agribusiness. Some progress
was achieved during the 1990s under this initiative and Bank support
mentioned below. Nevertheless, the private sector in Guinea-Bissau
remains underdeveloped. Furthermore, the leading enterprises in the
industrial zone were severely affected during the recent conflict. The
private sector consists of a small number of "formal" private sector
enterprises (mainly foreign-owned), and a large number of unregistered
"informal enterprises", whose number is growing fast in response to recent
agricultural and other sectoral reforms. Informal enterprises range from
micro-enterprises to international traders with hundreds of thousands of
dollars in turnover. This informal sector provides (low-wage) employment,
but makes limited contributions to public revenues. The economic structure
is also rudimentary in the sense that it consists mainly of
low-productivity agriculture and commerce with low value-added. The three
main exports are cashews (which still has potential for expansion), timber
(which is being exploited above its sustainable level), and fisheries
products (which are limited by the resource, yet have scope for domestic
value-added). In view of the results to date, Government intends to
encourage the emergence of national entrepreneurs and increases in the
range of formal economic activities within the economy. But the business
environment is not attractive to formal enterprises or to upstream
development. The Government PSD strategy also builds on privatization and
policy initiatives of previous programs supported by IDA during the 1990s,
notably the Structural Adjustment Credit II (Cr. 2019-GUB) and the
Economic Management Project (Cr. 2342-GUB), as well as preparatory work
undertaken in the context of the present project prior to the conflict.
Furthermore, given post-conflict realities, certain rehabilitation
priorities have been integrated into the present PSD program. The
specific status of actions and related key aspects of the strategy are
discussed below.Infrastructure Reform ProgramIn terms of quality and
coverage of service, public utilities and infrastructure services in
Bissau rank among the worst in Africa. The situation was exacerbated
during the conflict, when the airport and the telecommunications company
suffered significant damage (in the case of telecommunications, the number
of operating lines was reduced by half). During the late 1980s and 1990s,
recognizing that it was over-extended, Government took the strategic
decision to encourage private participation in infrastructure. Under the
Government strategy, the role of the private sector would be to operate
and implement investment plans in the context of concession contracts,
while the role of the Government would be limited to that of regulator and
facilitator. Initially, this goal was achieved mainly through
-2 -



transactions, without sufficient consideration of sector strategy and
regulatory issues. The port and the telecommunications company were thus
privatized, with limited success. The water and energy company was also
brought close to the point-of-sale. The transaction was halted by the
conflict and the process was initiated again in 2000.In the
telecommunications sector, the Government strategy calls for revising the
existing concession contract and the progressive elimination of
exclusivity regimes, facilitating competition in value-added services,
including issuing two cellular licenses, the second of which would be
granted to the fixed-line operator on the same terms and conditions as the
first, and putting in place an enabling regulatory framework (tariffs,
interconnection, etc.). In addition, the Government strategy aims to
strengthen the capacity of the regulatory agency. The implementation of
these reforms is expected to result in a quantum improvement in services
and development of new opportunities for the private sector in the
information technology sector.Government priorities in the civil aviation
sector are to improve access to Guinea-Bissau by encouraging an increase
in the frequency of international flights. This objective will be achieved
by modernizing the civil aviation code and implementing "open sky"
policies embodied in the Yamoussoukro agreement. The other aspects of the
sector strategy call for capacity building in the Civil Aviation Authority
and critical investments to ensure that the airport meets minimum
required safety standards and for privatizing airport management. The port
is affected by the pending legal dispute. In view of this, the Government
strategy calls mainly for the prompt resolution of this dispute,
preferably through negotiations, while undertaking an assessment of the
port's competitiveness and the identification of priority investment
needs. These and other related questions will be addressed as part of the
proposed port sector master plan study.In the case of water and energy,
Government is in the process of privatizing the national company through a
concession contract. This privatization is expected to result in improved
service delivery and enhance private sector competitiveness. It will be
supported by the proposed IDA Water and Energy Project. The Government
also recognizes that more time and resources are required to finalize the
privatization process and has devised a short-term strategy to help
expedite this transaction and address emergency maintenance needs. The
present project will thus provide funding for these short-term needs.
Privatization and Outsourcing ProgramAs mentioned above, the Government
had centrally planned economic management during the 1970s and 1980s. By
the early 1990s, there were an estimated 46 PEs operating in
Guinea-Bissau, which accounted for a substantial part of formal sector
output. By end-1997, 17 PEs had been put up for tender or liquidated and
7, including the hotels, were placed under private management contracts.
The privatization program was judged in the Economic Management Project
Implementation Completion Report (Report No. 21991) to have been
implemented in a broadly satisfactory manner. In particular, the
experience acquired and the institutional arrangement adopted, with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) solely responsible for implementing
the program, provided a good basis for the implementation of the rapid
privatization program being envisaged at that time. The conflict stopped
the momentum for reform and led to some privatized firms reverting back
into the public domain; management contracts were not renewed and some of
the tenders which had been initiated were not successful. As a result of
these factors and an increase in the number of PEs, largely due to an
under-counting of those without legal status, latest estimates indicate
- 3 -



that the PE sector comprises 44 enterprises, many of which no longer
operate as going concerns, employing around 3,400 people.Following the
conflict, the new Government briefly experimented with an approach whereby
line ministries would be responsible for the privatization of PEs for
which they had technical oversight responsibilities. Shortcomings of this
approach have become apparent, and Government has mandated the MEF to be
responsible for all privatizations. This centralized approach will
contribute to reducing the risk of disparate approaches and uncoordinated
strategies across sectors. This ministry, which is also responsible for
financial oversight, has delegated responsibility for formulating and
monitoring the technical aspects of the privatization program to the
project implementation unit (PIU), which collaborates closely with line
ministries. The Government has also confirmed its intention to complete
the divestiture program, which is being monitored by the IMF and the World
Bank, in the context of the macroeconomic program agreed with the
Government. Preparatory work undertaken during the past 18 months has
helped solidify the Government's privatization strategy and led to the
classification of 44 PEs, of which 33 would be privatized: (a) 11 PEs are
classified as utilities, whose divestiture will be undertaken in the
context of sector reform, or companies with limited or no commercial role,
which will be retained by the Government; (b) 14 PEs were significantly
damaged during the conflict and will be liquidated; (c) 6 firms are
bankrupt and will be divested through the sale of assets; this group
includes BIGB, once the largest bank in the country; and (d) the remaining
13 firms, including two hotels, will be divested as going concerns. A
detailed divestiture action plan has already been developed for all but 8
of the 33 PEs. In addition, the liquidation and/or sale of the assets of
nine PEs only requires final Government approval, which is expected soon.
Another aspect of the divestiture program concerns the outsourcing of
custodial and similar services, which are currently provided by public
employees. While these programs are usually associated with civil service
reform, the Government would like to proceed immediately with their
outsourcing, following discussions with the private sector, including
unions.Private Investment StimulusDuring project preparation, public and
private stakeholders in Guinea-Bissau emphasized that unless private
investment could be accelerated, some developmental outcomes may fall
short of expectations. More specifically, they have pointed out that in
the aftermath of the conflict, most private firms are acutely short of
working capital and have assets which have been severely destroyed or
damaged. The 20 or so leading private enterprises operating in the
industrial zone of Bissau were the worst affected by the
conflict.Government's strategy for addressing this issue is two-pronged.
First, the depletion of the working capital is largely a consequence of
domestic arrears accumulated by the public sector during and immediately
after the conflict. The Government intends to repay these arrears.
Second, the Government has decided to participate in the efforts to
rebuild viable industries. It is already receiving substantial assistance
from the donor community in order to clear validated arrears. Given that,
at this point, the needs are largely funded, the present project will not
provide any financing arrears. With respect to the second issue, the
project will finance an EFF to help kick-start private investments. In
addition, resources would be made available so that beneficiaries of the
facility can access know-how through consulting services and training.
Legal reformThe present legal system is not conducive to creating a
climate necessary to develop private sector commercial activities. The
- 4 -



shortcomings stem from two sources. First, the legal system is antiquated
and constraining, as most of the legislation in force today dates back to
the early colonial period. Second, the institutions which are called upon
to enforce and interpret these laws are obsolete and understaffed, and
lack basic working tools. Moreover, land tenure laws are not enabling for
the needs of commercial agriculture and those of non-agricultural
businesses, and title registration is deficient. The Government is aware
of international experience in modernizing business law, and understands
that legal reform is a long-term process spanning a decade or more.
However, this reform is critical to both the private sector aspects of the
PRSP, as well as the objective of empowering the poor through improved
access to judicial services. The Government's strategy in this area is
based on three mutually-reinforcing objectives, which are: (i) modernizing
laws; (ii) improving the efficiency of tribunals; and (iii) enhancing the
access of the civil society and the private sector to the courts and
judicial information. Special emphasis will be given under the project to
modernizing business laws and supporting their harmonization with regional
initiatives, especially the OHADA treaty, to make fair and equitable
justice readily accessible to citizens and private enterprises.Improvement
of the Investment ClimateThere is a weak enterprise tradition in
Guinea-Bissau. The war of independence followed by more than a decade of
centrally-planned economic management, left a very sparse and poorly
institutionalized business community and repressed rural entrepreneurship.
The private sector remains at its early stages of development. Its
representative institutions are just emerging and need to be strengthened
to be able to fully assume their role in partnership with Government. In
addition, the level of institutional capacity in all branches of the
administration is low, and tax, regulatory and administrative procedures
greatly constrain private initiatives. To address these issues, the
Government strategy calls for: (i) improvement of the business environment
through the elimination of red-tape and tax-induced distortions; (ii)
gradual elimination of constraints to private investment in six sectors
that are considered appropriate entry points for private sector
intervention; and (iii) institutional capacity building in key public
agencies and emerging private associations.
2. Objectives
The project's development objective is to support increased investment,
competitiveness and participation of the private sector in economic
activity. This objective will be achieved by implementing the
Government's divestiture program, reforming the infrastructure and
commercial banking sectors, outsourcing certain Government services,
stimulating private investment, undertaking legal reform, improving the
fiscal and regulatory aspects of the business environment and
strengthening supply chains. The project would thus contribute to
Government's poverty alleviation strategy and sustained, high GDP growth.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group, including IDA and FIAS, is seen by local stakeholders such
as Government officials, donors and private sector as having credibility
in the fields of privatization, private partnerships and investment
climate reform. There are a few donors involved in PSD in Guinea-Bissau,
and IDA support is seen as the key and indeed often the only source of
financing for the implementation of the PSD program. In addition, the
Bank is viewed in Guinea-Bissau as being well-placed to provide advice and
- 5 -



technical assistance to manage the complexities of the reform program,
notably privatization and investment climate enhancement. Through Bank
involvement, the PSD program will thus benefit from lessons learned
elsewhere, the credibility of Government's efforts will be enhanced and
the participatory process will be reinforced.
4. Description
The proposed project would support the following major elements in the
Government's private sector-led, poverty alleviation strategy:Project
Component 1: Building Partnerships and Private Participation (US$16.31
million, of which US$13.44 million is financed by IDA)This component would
help the Government address a key bottleneck to private sector
participation in economic activity caused by poor utility and
infrastructure services. The main focus of the project would be to support
and/or prepare the reform of the telecommunications, air transport, port,
water and energy sectors. In this context, the project would assist in
attracting private investments in these sectors and in the implementation
of the necessary legal and regulatory reforms, and would fund related
capacity building, especially in a multi-sector regulatory agency. In
addition, assistance under this component would facilitate the complete
withdrawal of an overextended public sector from activities that can best
be undertaken by the private sector. The project would thus support
divestiture from public enterprises, including the liquidation of a
bankrupt commercial bank and the outsourcing of custodial public
services. In the context of privatization, the project would finance the
retrenchment cost of redundant workers. The last activity of this
component would help kick-start private sector activities by providing an
EFF that would match resources mobilized by private entrepreneurs for
viable productive investments. Access to this equity facility would be
limited to existing private firms whose assets were damaged during the
conflict and divested private enterprises; support to greenfield
activities would be excluded. Initial funding for this component, except
for the EFF, has been provided under the PPF and project implementation
would thus benefit from this work. Project Component 2: Improving the
Investment Climate (US$5.54 million, of which US$3.6 million is financed
by IDA)This component will help implement legal reform by making important
advances in modernizing business laws and making fair and equitable
justice more readily accessible to individuals and private enterprises, a
long-term effort. Activities include improving institutional capacity in
the main tribunal of Bissau, which handles most of the business cases,
harmonization of national laws with OHADA, and providing complementary
training and technical assistance to strengthen the judicial system and
the legal profession. The design of these activities is based on an
analysis of the situation in Guinea-Bissau, and complemented with lessons
learned from similar reforms in other UEMOA and/or OHADA countries.
French aid would provide parallel financing to the project in this area.
The other thrust of this component is to improve the business environment
in Guinea-Bissau. First, the project would support the progressive
alleviation of administrative barriers and the rationalization of
tax-induced investment incentives, and eliminate associated distortions.
These initiatives will also be supported by Financial Investment Advisory
Services (FIAS). Second, the project would assist in the assessment of
policy and institutional constraints to develop six key subsectors which
are regarded as promising entry points for private investment, with a view
to alleviating these constraints. This would result in improved supply
- 6 -



chains, and ultimately enhance the international competitiveness of these
sectors. Institutional support to four emerging private organizations, as
well as public agencies, will also be provided through this
component.Project Component 3: Supporting Implementation and Capacity
Building (US$3.70 million, of which US$3.5 million is financed by
IDA)Strong project implementation capacity is always a key to attaining
development objectives. In view of the weakness and frequent changes in
the civil service, the relatively weak institutional capacity in the
country, and the challenge of closing the policy and economic gap with
other countries in the sub-region, the need for strong project
implementation capacity is even more crucial in Guinea-Bissau than it is
elsewhere. Stakeholders recognized this problem early on, and have
assembled a strong team, funded by the PPF, to ensure that appropriate
implementation capacity exists. The component will continue to support
this team as well as various aspects of project management and
implementation, including monitoring and evaluation.The proposed project
would support the following major elements in the Government's
privatization and infrastructure reform programs:
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               1.0
Private Sector and
Other donors            4.4
IDA                      26.0
Total Project Cost       31.4
6. Implementation
Under the previous operation related to the sector, high turnover of
counterparts and Government officials had constrained the implementation
of programs. While this risk also exists in the project, it is moderated
by the stability of the PIU and strong stakeholder participation in
project implementation. In this respect, the Government has been quite
willing to involve the private sector in the management and oversight of
the projectOverall project implementation will be placed under the PIU.
The PIU will also be the secretariat to the Steering Committee,
responsible for overall project oversight. A project coordinator, who will
have the oversight of a project coordination unit in charge of operational
and financial management functions, has been competitively selected by the
Government. The PIU coordinators and team leaders will be accountable to
work closely with other public and private stakeholders to facilitate
project execution. The EFF will be managed independently by an
internationally recruited expert.Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Much
of the project design is based on a series of pilot initiatives and
feedback that determine subsequent actions. Monitoring and evaluations are
therefore key functions that would need to be fulfilled by the PIU. In
addition to a monthly monitoring table "tableau de bord" and progress
reports to be prepared each semester by the PMU, the following functions
would be outsourced to experts.Financial Management and Auditing: The PIU
will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting
procedures under the proposed project are acceptable to all stakeholders.
Independent auditors acceptable to the Association would audit project
accounts on an annual basis, following standard Bank requirements and
guidelines, within three months of the end of the fiscal year. In
addition, the accounts of the PIU and, as needed, those of other
- 7 -



implementing agencies, would be audited by independent auditors.
7. Sustainability
This project provides financial, technical assistance and associated
institutional and policy support for a well-defined, time-bound process
involving privatization, infrastructure and investment climate reform and
stimulating private investments. The irreversible nature of most of these
actions significantly enhances the likelihood that, once implemented, they
will be largely irreversible. One risk concerns the possibility that the
implementation of some of the measures may be incomplete. This risk is
being moderated by the IDA support that would help ensure that human and
other resources are available for implementing the programs, and by the
participatory approach built into project design that would ensure timely
feedback and corrective measures being adopted to address any shortcoming
identified. High turnover of staff is another factor that has, in the
past, limited sustainability of the institutional reform program. This
risk is partially addressed through the competitive remuneration of PIU
staff as well as those of the regulatory agency, and through training to
be provided throughout the project to key counterpart agencies and the
private sector. Furthermore, certain institutions and mechanisms, such as
the PIU, privatization and infrastructure arrangements and the EFF, are
temporary in nature and are not expected to be sustained beyond the life
of the project. It is anticipated that, in due course, a few actions that
would need to be supported beyond the project (e.g., legal reform or
second generation PSD reforms) would be financed and thus sustained
through future donor financing. Finally, project sustainability has
further been strengthened by bringing into the project certain potential
risks, such as water and energy reform and financial sector restructuring,
and by promoting effective buy-in to the project concept and design by key
stakeholders, including the local business community, Government and the
political establishment of the country.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design has benefited from lessons learned in previous projects
in Guinea-Bissau, notably in the area of privatization and from the TIPS
project. It also incorporates lessons learned elsewhere and best-practice
features to address PSD, financing, privatization and infrastructure
problems. These lessons include:n Ensuring the existence of strong
implementation capacity is a key to success in less developed and
post-conflict countries. Government has strived not only to assemble the
best available team, which is widely respected, but also to make sure that
the PIU has the resources to fulfill its mandate. Further incentives for
good performance will be incorporated into the contracts for team leaders
and the project coordinator, and up to 25 percent of their remuneration
would be based on output targets. This approach will also be used in the
proposed support to private associations, where project funding would be
released as these associations meet quarterly and/or annual targets
derived from their business plans.n Government commitment to and
leadership of the privatization and sector reform program are essential
for success. There is a broad consensus on the need for reform among the
key political parties in Guinea-Bissau, and the Government has repeatedly
confirmed its commitment to the reform agenda. However, there have been
frequent changes of personalities in Government, which require
confirmation of previous agreements, and thus delay the reform agenda. The
project design takes this into account by building in periodic
- 8 -



consultations with the Government. To facilitate implementation of the
divestiture program, the Government has made the MEF responsible for the
privatization process. The privatization component will be implemented by
the PIU, which has adequate experience and capacity to implement the
reforms and access to outsourced specialized advisory services financed
under project.n Resources need to be available to mitigate the social
costs of reforms. The project will fund severance packages for redundant
employees.n The privatization of infrastructure should take place in the
context of a well-defined sector strategy. Sector strategies that specify
competition, pricing and other legal and regulatory policies have been
prepared.n The regulatory agency should be independent from political
influence and interference, and financially and institutionally
sustainable. The multi-sector approach towards economic regulation
explicitly integrates this lesson.n Integrate experiences of similar legal
reform programs. The experience in the sub-region in the OHADA context
have led to a fairly well-defined methodology that is integrated in the
project.n Impact of policy changes needs to be monitored to ensure that
intended results are being achieved and to provide information feedback to
a process that is necessarily iterative. The project design incorporates
this approach and calls for, among others, three surveys aimed at
quantifying the impact of the investment climate on firms.n Need to keep
stakeholders engaged from the beginning of the process and throughout the
implementation of the program. This approach was an important aspect of
project preparation and is an integral part of the project implementation
arrangements.n Need to make investment capital available for
reconstruction in post-conflict countries. The design of the EFF
incorporates an innovative approach. Nevertheless, it takes into account
relevant successes and failures of lines of credit and of venture capital
schemes funded by the Bank.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The main environmental issues associated with the
project relate to the need to adequately mitigate environmental hazard and
risk factors in the plants and operations of the PEs concerned, prior to
their divestiture. The PE divestiture program includes major PEs in
sectors where environmental issues can be expected to arise. These will
need review and analysis, and where warranted, mitigation and clean up.
The PIU has adopted standards and guidelines for preparation of
environmental assessments and implementation of actions required. Since
the project focuses principally on providing technical support for the
implementation of the overall privatization program and not investment in
PEs, the environmental assessment and mitigation work is best done during
project implementation as part of the process leading up to divestiture.
The principal actions in preparation for the IDA credit have been to
undertake a pre-audit survey of the PEs to identify the extent and
principal types of environmental clean-up and mitigation activity that
will need to be carried out before PE divestiture. During preparation a
pre-audit study was undertaken that:n covered compliance and contingent
liability assessments, mitigation and monitoring procedures;n focused on
environmental impacts associated with air and water quality, solid and
hazardous waste discharges, and occupational health and safety issues at
the facility under investigation;f helped to rank the enterprises
according to the anticipated environmental liability and determine which
-9-



of the enterprises need to have comprehensive audits and assessments and
which need partial and no audit at all prior to the privation.The
pre-audit study included a total of 17 enterprises. The study indicated
that six PEs will require full audits and remediation plans, four PEs will
require a partial audit; and seven PEs require no audit (bank/service
firms and 5 shut-down firms). The EFF is expected to finance
rehabilitation of existing firms: privatized PEs and private firms,
especially those that have suffered from war damage. The former group have
already been covered by the pre-audit. As for the latter group, the
beneficiary firms are not yet known at this stage. Therefore, the
environmental guidelines developed under the project will be followed in
the feasibility study of the proposed investment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Iradj A. Alikhani
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel: 202 458-0345
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 8, 2002.
- 10 -



