Report No. 23749
Report No: I001001 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/26/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GUINEA-BISSAU Project ID: P001001
Project: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project Task Team
Leader: Iradj A. Alikhani
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 6, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 26, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 26.00
Managing Unit: AFTPS     Sector: DB - Business Environment; DV - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's development objective is to support increased private sector
investment and competitiveness and its participation in economic
activity. This objective will be achieved by implementing the
Government's divestiture program, reforming the infrastructure and
commercial banking sectors, outsourcing certain Government services,
stimulating private investment, undertaking legal reform, improving the
fiscal and regulatory aspects of the business environment and
strengthening supply chains. The project would thus contribute to
Government's poverty alleviation strategy and sustained, high GDP growth.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would support the following major elements in the
Government's private sector-led, poverty alleviation strategy:
Project Component 1: Building Partnerships and Private Participation
(US$16.31 million)
This component would help the Government address a key bottleneck to
private sector participation in economic activity caused by poor utility
and infrastructure services. The main focus of the project would be to
support and/or prepare the reform of the telecommunications, air
transport, port, water and energy sectors. In this context, the project
would assist in attracting private investments in these sectors and in the
implementation of the necessary legal and regulatory reforms, and would
fund related capacity building, especially in a multi-sector regulatory
agency. In addition, assistance under this component would to facilitate
the complete withdrawal of an overextended public sector from activities
that can best be undertaken by the private sector. The project would thus
support divestiture from public enterprises, including the liquidation of
a bankrupt commercial bank and the outsourcing of custodial public
services. In the context of privatization, the project would finance the
retrenchment cost of redundant workers. The last activity of this
component would help kick-start private sector activities by providing an
EFF that would match resources mobilized by private entrepreneurs for
viable productive investments. Access to this equity facility would be



limited to existing private firms whose assets were damaged during the
conflict and divested private enterprises; support to greenfield
activities would be excluded. Initial funding for this component, except
for the EFF, has been provided under the PPF and project implementation
would thus benefit from this work.
Project Component 2: Improving the Investment Climate (US$5.55 million)
This component will help implement legal reform by making important
advances in modernizing business laws and making fair and equitable
justice more readily accessible to individuals and private enterprises, a
long-term effort. Activities include improving institutional capacity in
the main tribunal of Bissau, which handles most of the business cases,
harmonization of national laws with OHADA, and providing complementary
training and technical assistance to strengthen the judicial system and
the legal profession. The design of these activities is based on an
analysis of the situation in Guinea-Bissau, and complemented with lessons
learned from similar reforms in other UEMOA and/or OHADA countries.
French aid would provide parallel financing to the project in this area.
The other thrust of this component is to improve the business environment
in Guinea-Bissau. First, the project would support the progressive
alleviation of administrative barriers and the rationalization of
tax-induced investment incentives, and eliminate associated distortions.
These initiatives will also be supported by FIAS. Second, the project
would assist in the assessment of policy and institutional constraints to
develop six key subsectors which are regarded as promising entry points
for private investment, with a view to alleviating these constraints. This
would result in improved supply chains, and ultimately enhance the
international competitiveness of these sectors. Institutional support to
four emerging private organizations, as well as public agencies, will
also be provided through this component.
Project Component 3: Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building
(US$3.70 million)
Strong project implementation capacity is always a key to attaining
development objectives. In view of the weakness and frequent changes in
the civil service, the relatively weak institutional capacity in the
country, and the challenge of closing the policy and economic gap with
other countries in the sub-region, the need for strong project
implementation capacity is even more crucial in Guinea-Bissau than it is
elsewhere. Stakeholders recognized this problem early on, and have
assembled a strong team, funded by the PPF, to ensure that appropriate
implementation capacity exists. The component will continue to support
this team as well as various aspects of project management and
implementation, including monitoring and evaluation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Bissau, Republic of Guinea Bissau. The main environmental issues
associated with the project relate to the need to mitigate environmental
hazard and risk factors adequately in the plants and operations of the PEs
concerned, prior to their divestiture. The PE divestiture program includes
- 2 -



major PEs in sectors where environmental issues can be expected to arise.
These will need review and analysis, and where warranted, mitigation and
clean up. The PCU will adopt standards and guidelines for preparation of
environmental assessments and implementation of actions required.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Since the project focuses principally on providing technical
support for implementation of the overall privatization program, and not
investment in PEs, the environmental assessment and mitigation work is
best done during project implementation as part of the process leading up
to divestiture. The principal actions in preparation for the IDA credit
have been to undertake a pre-audit survey of the PEs to identify the
extent and principal types of environmental clean-up and mitigation
activity that will need to be carried out before PE divestiture.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
As mentioned in Section I, the main environmental issues associated with
the project relate to the need to mitigate environmental hazard and risk
factors adequately in the plants and operations of the PEs concerned,
prior to their divestiture. The PE divestiture program includes major PEs
in sectors where environmental issues can be expected to arise. These will
need review and analysis, and where warranted, mitigation and clean up.
During preparation a pre-audit study was undertaken that:
n covered compliance and contingent liability assessments, mitigation and
monitoring procedures;
n focused on environmental impacts associated with air and water quality,
solid and hazardous waste discharges, and occupational health and safety
issues at the facility under investigation;
n helped to rank the enterprises according to the anticipated
environmental liability and determine which of the enterprises need to
have comprehensive audits and assessments and which need partial and no
audit at all prior to the privation.
-3-



The pre-audit study included a total of 17 enterprises. The study
indicates that six PEs will require full audits and remediation plans,
four PEs will require a partial audit; and seven PEs require no audit
(bank/service firm and 5 shut-down firms).
The equity facility is expected to finance rehabilitation of existing
firms: privatized PEs and private firms, especially those that have
suffered from war damage. The former group have already been covered by
the "pre-audit". As for the latter group, the beneficiary firms are not
yet known at this stage. Therefore, the environmental guidelines
developed under the project will be followed in the feasibility study of
the proposed investment.
In the process of project preparation, World Bank project screening
concluded that an environmental assessment (EA) was necessary. A social
assessment was, however, not required in the first assessment as project
operations were presumed not to have adverse impacts on culture,
indigenous people and resettlement. A second view at project operations
revealed that resettlement would be an issue. The preparation of a
resettlement framework was therefore required. The purpose of the policy
framework is to clarify the principles for social impact mitigation; viz.,
compensation for loss of properties and livelihood and relocation or
resettlement. The framework is valid for all subproject operations
executed under the Private Sector Restructuring Project (PSRRP) financed
by the World Bank in Guinea Bissau.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
See II. D. la.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
See II. D. la.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Consultations with stakeholders were carried out whenever possible
during the field inspections of various facilities and sites for the
enterprises. In general, there was knowledge about the privatization and
commercialization processes currently being pursued by the Government at
most of the enterprises. Seminars and workshops were held with
stakeholder groups for this purpose, and to discuss preliminary findings
of the pre-audit as well as key elements for the environmental assessment
guidelines to be adopted.
The environmental and social assessments as well as appropriate mitigation
plans (including resettlement plans) which will be prepared for the
-4 -



different subprojects and investments, will be sent to the World Bank for
review. Once approved, they will be disclosed in country and at the WB
Infoshop.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      1/31/2001       2/5/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/31/2001        2/10/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   2/5/2001        2/12/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      4/28/2001       4/30/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 5/9/2001          5/10/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   5/9/2001         5/9/2001
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Iradj A. Alikhani       2/25/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Serigne Omar Fye/Person/World Bank       2/25/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
2/25/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     2/25/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Demba Ba        2/25/02
- 5 -



For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 6 -



