Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23508-GUB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.0 MILLION
(US$26.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 28, 2002
Private Sector Unit
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFA 750 = US$1
US$0.13 = 100 CFA
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA          Agence pour la Skuritg de la Navigation Aerienne (Aviation Safety Agency)
BCEAO           (Banque Centrale des Elatv de I Afrique de l 'Ouet (Central Bank of West African States)
BIOB            Banco International da Guin6-Bisvau (International Bank of Guinea-Bissau)
BOAD            Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (West African Development Bank)
EFF             Equity financing facility
EMP             Environmental Management Plan
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
ESAF            Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU              European Union
FIAS            Financial Investment Advisory Services
FMR             Financial Management Reports
FMS             Financial Management Systems
GDP             Growth Domestic Product
[COB            institute de Communicacao da Guine-Bissau (Communication Institute of Guinea-Bissau)
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF             International Monetary Fund
ITC             International Trade Commission
I-PRSP          Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MFE             Ministry of Economy and Finance
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NPV             Net Present Value
OHADA           Organisation d 'Harmonisation des Droits des Affaires en Afrique (Organization for the Harmonization of
Business Laws in Africa)
PE              Public Entreprises
PIM             Project Implementation Manual
PIP             Project Implementation Plan
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD             Private Sector Development
PSRDP           Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
SME             Small and Medium Enterprises
TIPS            Trade and Investment Promotion Support
UEMOA           Union Economique el Monetaire Ouest Africaine (West African Economic and Monetary Union)
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
WTO             World Trade Organization
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:      John Mclntire
Sector Manager:       Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:        Iradj A. Alikhani



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA BISSAU
PRIVATE SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performnance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
I. Project components                                                                11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and irnplementation arrangemnents                                    14
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      20
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25



2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          28
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary     51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    64
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            67
Annex 11: Equity Scheme                                                                  69
Annex 12: Government Action Plan                                                         73
MAP(S)
24520



GUINEA-BISSAU
Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: February 28, 2002                           Team Leader: lradj A. Alikhani
Country Director: John M. Mcintire                Sector Manager: Demba Ba
Project ID: P001001                               Sector(s): DB - Business Environment, DV - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ J Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 26.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       1.00           0.00          1.00
IDA                                                           12.50          13.50         26.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             1.00           1.00          2.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                 0.51           1.89          2.40
Total:                                                        15.01          16.39         31.40
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Address: Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rua Justino Lopes, 74-A, Bissau, Guinea Bissau
Contact Person: Dr. Issufo Sanha, Program Coordinator
Tel: 245-20-34-95            Fax: 245-20-34-96           Email: psdp@sol.gtelecom.gw
Othier Agency(ies):
Ministry of Transport & Communication, Ministry of Natural Resources & Energy, Multisector Regulatory Agency,
Port, Civil Aviation Authority, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Public Administration & Labor.
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY      2~~003     2004       2005      2006       2007       2008
Annual     6.00       5.20       6.00       4.70      2.70       1.40
Cumulative    6.00       11.20      17.20     21.90     24.60      26.00
Project Implementation period: 5.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2008
W;Ct -DA SC-: Rd. 9th. Xl)



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objective is to support increased investment, competitiveness and participation
of the private sector in economic activity. This objective will be achieved by implementing the
Government's divestiture program, reforming the infrastructure and commercial banking sectors,
outsourcing certain Govemment services, stimulating private investment, undertaking legal reform,
improving the fiscal and regulatory aspects of the business environment and strengthening supply chains.
The project would thus contribute to Government's poverty alleviation strategy and sustained, high GDP
growth.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators listed below that are to be met by the end of the project have been agreed
with Government. The targets will be monitored throughout project implementation to assess progress
towards achieving project objectives (for more detailed information see Annex 1):
Infrastructure reform will be implemented:
*   Telecommunications: (i) revised concession contract will be in place (by mid-term review); (ii) two
cellular licenses will be issued (by mid-term review); (iii) legal and regulatory framework will be
established (by mid-term review); and (iv) teledensity will be increased (16,000 fixed lines and 20,000
cellular customers by 2007).
* Civil aviation: (i) revised civil aviation code will be in place by mid-term review; and (ii) the Civil
Aviation Authority will be fully operational and safety standards will be met by 2006.
* Water and Energy: the privatization strategy and related bidding documents will be prepared by
mid-2003.
* Port: a master plan will be adopted by 2005.
Multi-sector regulatory agency will be in place and fully operational:
*   Telecommunications by mid-term review.
*   Remaining sectors by 2005.
Privatization and/or liquidation of 33 public enterprises (PE) by June 2007.
*   Liquidation of the lntemational Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BIGB) will be completed by June 2003;
however the timing of this operation is dependent upon the availability of resources to pay the small
depositors.
* 18 PEs divested by mid-term review.
* Remaining PEs by June 2007.
*   Maintenance, surveillance and cleaning of public facilities will be contracted out by mid-term review.
Fifteen viable private investments will be financed through the equity financing facility (EFF) and 400
permanent jobs created.
The national laws will be compatible with OHADA (Organisation dHarmonisation des Droits des
Affaires en Afrique) and improvements achieved in the performance of the tribunal in Bissau, specifically a
- 2 -



reduction of 50 percent in the time for issuing judgments for commercial cases, by 2007.
investment climate will be improved:
*   Action plans resulting from the administrative barrier and tax studies will be fully implemented
(mid-term review).
*   The supply response and competitiveness gains are stimulated in six key entry points, specifically an
average increase in domestic value-added of 50 percent by 2007.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16568     Date of latest CAS discussion: June 1997
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Guinea-Bissau considered by the Board on June 10, 1997,
focused on two basic objectives: sustainable economic development and social development. The strategy
identified the need to promote private sector development (PSD) with lending operations targeted to support
private sector capacity building and reform of the water and energy sectors. The armed conflict that broke
out in June 1998 and lasted approximately 11 months led to the suspension of the preparation of the Bank's
new operations. Following the establishment of a democratically-elected Government in early 2000, the
Bank revised its strategy and adopted a transitional strategy, part of a coordinated program of assistance
put in place by bilateral and multilateral donors, aimed at helping the country to implement its post-conflict
reconciliation and reconstruction program.
Guinea-Bissau is one of the poorest countries in the world (ranked 169 out of 174 in 2000), and has
inadequate infrastructure and low social indicators, in part the result of state-controlled development
strategies pursued until the mid-1980s. The authorities embarked on a reform program in 1987 that
continued through 1997. In 1997, Guinea-Bissau joined the West African Economic and Monetary Union (
Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine, UEMOA). Progress in addressing the country's poverty
was interrupted by the armed conflict that broke out in June 1998, which seriously affected the country's
social and economic fabric. War-related losses are estimated at about 50 percent of 1997 GDP. Real GDP
contracted in 1998 by about 28 percent and social indicators deteriorated. A coalition Government was
formed following presidential and parliamentary elections held in late 1999 and early 2000, which
reinitiated the reform agenda. In early 2001, the coalition Government was replaced with a Government
representing the largest party in the National Assembly, which has continued to pursue reforms.
The Bank's transitional strategy is summarized in the President's Report of the Economic Rehabilitation
and Recovery Credit (ERRC, Cr. 3349-GUB), approved by the Board on May 16, 2000. The transitional
strategy focuses on assisting Guinea-Bissau to face its post-conflict needs by helping to finance urgent
social sector and infrastructure needs by the reallocation of uncommitted resources from ongoing
operations. In particular, this entails (i) redirecting portfolio activities of IDA-financed credits to support
the Basic Education and the National Health Development Program launched a few months prior to the
conflict; (ii) contributing to macroeconomic stability and supporting key measures aimed at promoting
inclusive policies, reviving the private sector and strengthening public resource management, by providing
special assistance under the quick-disbursing ERRC; and (iii) improving the business environment for the
private sector and expanding private sector participation in service delivery.
The proposed Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (PSRDP) is closely linked to the
Bank's goal of supporting the country to address its post-conflict rehabilitation and reconstruction needs as
- 3 -



established in the transitional strategy by helping to create an enabling environment through well-targeted
legal and regulatory reforms, supporting the divestiture of inefficient public enterprises, assisting in
building confidence in the banking system, nurturing the expansion of private sector activity in service
delivery and identifying new sources of economic growth,
Moreover, the proposed Project also supports implementation of the Government's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), endorsed by the Board on December 14, 2000. The poverty strategy
emphasizes rapid broad-based private sector-led growth whose benefits are equitably distributed as a
necessary condition for sustained poverty reduction. Encouraging private sector growth is also expected to
be one of the pillars of a Bank's assistance strategy to be submitted to the Board shortly after consideration
of the Government's full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), planned for later in 2002.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
On December 14, 2000, the World Bank Board considered an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(Report No: 21407 GUB), prepared by the Govemment. Recognizing the magnitude of the developmental
challenge, the newly-elected authorities defined growth and poverty reduction along with national
reconciliation and the fighting of corruption as their central objectives. In this context, the Government has
emphasized rapid broad-based private sector-led growth, whose benefits are well distributed and involve
annual increases in GDP of at least 5 percent, as a necessary condition for poverty reduction. Furthermore,
the authorities are committed to consolidating macroeconomic stability and accelerating structural reforms
as a precondition to sustainable private sector development. Given this background and high expectations
in terms of the future developmental outcome following the conflict, Government reactivated the
preparation of a comprehensive private sector development (PSD) program and related strategy. It also
confirmed its request for lDA's support in the implementation of the program through the credit described
in this report. The Government has provided the Bank its sector policy statement summarizing key aspects
of its PSD strategy that underpins the proposed project.
The project focuses on private participation in economic activities as well as on improving the investment
climate and is therefore fully consistent with the World Bank's PSD strategy. The Government's PSD
strategy is based on two fundamental principles. First, encouraging greater domestic and foreign private
participation in economic activities through privatization, infrastructure reform and the rehabilitation of
existing viable productive assets. Second, enhancing the investment climate through legal and business
environment reform and improved supply chains for six sectors that are considered key entry points by
stakeholders. The origins of the Government's PSD program dates back to 1987, when the Government
adopted a private-sector-based development strategy, after 13 years of centrally-planned economic
management The program was deepened during the 1990s, partly through a successful Trade and
Investment Promotion Support (TIPS) program implemented with United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) financing. This program focused on studying and improving the investment climate,
including legal reform, and formulating strategies for the development of promising sectors or entry points,
including cashew nuts, fisheries and agribusiness. Some progress was achieved during the 1 990s under this
initiative and Bank support mentioned below. Nevertheless, the private sector in Guinea-Bissau remains
underdeveloped. Furthermore, the leading enterprises in the industrial zone were severely affected during
the recent conflict. The private sector consists of a small number of "formal" private sector enterprises
(mainly foreign-owned), and a large number of unregistered "informal enterprises", whose number is
growing fast in response to recent agricultural and other sectoral reforms. Informnal enterprises range from
micro-enterprises to intemational traders with hundreds of thousands of dollars in tumover. This informal
sector provides (low-wage) employment, but makes limited contributions to public revenues. The economic
structure is also rudimentary in the sense that it consists mainly of low-productivity agriculture and
- 4 -



commerce with low value-added. The three main exports are cashews (which still has potential for
expansion), timber (which is being exploited above its sustainable level), and fisheries products (which are
limited by the resource, yet have scope for domestic value-added).
in view of the results to date, Government intends to encourage the emergence of national entrepreneurs
and increases in the range of formal economic activities within the economy. But the business environment
is not attractive to formal enterprises or to upstream development. The Government PSD strategy also
builds on privatization and policy initiatives of previous programs supported by IDA during the 1990s,
notably the Structural Adjustment Credit If (Cr. 2019-GUB) and the Economic Management Project (Cr.
2342-GUB), as well as preparatory work undertaken in the context of the present project prior to the
conflict. Furthermore, given post-conflict realities, certain rehabilitation priorities have been integrated into
the present PSD program. The specific status of actions and related key aspects of the strategy are
discussed below.
Infrastructure Reform Program
In terms of quality and coverage of service, public utilities and infrastructure services in Bissau rank
among the worst in Africa. The situation was exacerbated during the conflict, when the airport and the
telecommunications company suffered significant damage (in the case of telecommunications, the number
of operating lines was reduced by half). During the late 1980s and 1990s, recognizing that it was
over-extended, Government took the strategic decision to encourage private participation in infrastructure.
Under the Govemment strategy, the role of the private sector would be to operate and implement
investment plans in the context of concession contracts, while the role of the Government would be limited
to that of regulator and facilitator. Initially, this goal was achieved mainly through transactions, without
sufficient consideration of sector strategy and regulatory issues. The port and the telecommunications
company were thus privatized, with limited success. The water and energy company was also brought
close to the point-of-sale. The transaction was halted by the conflict and the process was initiated again in
2000.
In the telecommunications sector, the Government strategy calls for revising the existing concession
contract and the progressive elimination of exclusivity regimes, facilitating competition in value-added
services, including issuing two cellular licenses, the second of which would be granted to the fixed-line
operator on the same terms and conditions as the first, and putting in place an enabling regulatory
framework (tariffs, interconnection, etc.). In addition, the Government strategy aims to strengthen the
capacity of the regulatory agency. The implementation of these reforms is expected to result in a quantum
improvement in services and development of new opportunities for the private sector in the information
technology sector.
Government priorities in the civil aviation sector are to improve access to Guinea-Bissau by encouraging
an increase in the frequency of international flights. This objective will be achieved by modernizing the civil
aviation code and implementing "open sky" policies embodied in the Yamoussoukro agreement. The other
aspects of the sector strategy call for capacity building in the Civil Aviation Authority and critical
investments to ensure that the airport meets minimum required safety standards and for privatizing airport
management.
The port is affected by the pending legal dispute. In view of this, the Government strategy calls mainly for
the prompt resolution of this dispute, preferably through negotiations, while undertaking an assessment of
the port's competitiveness and the identification of priority investment needs. These and other related
questions will be addressed as part of the proposed port sector master plan study.
- 5 -



In the case of water and energy, Govemment is in the process of privatizing the national company through
a concession contract. This privatization is expected to result in improved service delivery and enhance
private sector competitiveness. It will be supported by the proposed IDA Water and Energy Project. The
Govemment also recognizes that more time and resources are required to finalize the privatization process
and has devised a short-term strategy to help expedite this transaction and address emergency maintenance
needs. The present project will thus provide funding for these short-term needs.
Privatization and Outsourcing Program
As mentioned above, the Govenmment had centrally planned economic management during the 1970s and
1980s. By the early 1990s, there were an estimated 46 PEs operating in Guinea-Bissau, which accounted
for a substantial part of formal sector output. By end-1997, 17 PEs had been put up for tender or
liquidated and 7, including the hotels, were placed under private management contracts. The privatization
program was judged in the Economic Management Project Implementation Completion Report (Report No.
21991) to have been implemented in a broadly satisfactory manner. In particular, the experience acquired
and the institutional arrangement adopted, with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) solely
responsible for implementing the program, provided a good basis for the implementation of the rapid
privatization program being envisaged at that time. The conflict stopped the momentum for reform and led
to some privatized firms reverting back into the public domain; management contracts were not renewed
and some of the tenders which had been initiated were not successful. As a result of these factors and an
increase in the number of PEs, largely due to an under-counting of those without legal status, latest
estimates indicate that the PE sector comprises 44 enterprises, many of which no longer operate as going
concems, employing around 3,400 people.
Following the conflict, the new Government briefly experimented with an approach whereby line ministries
would be responsible for the privatization of PEs for which they had technical oversight responsibilities.
Shortcomings of this approach have become apparent, and Govemment has mandated the MEF to be
responsible for all privatizations. This centralized approach will contribute to reducing the risk of
disparate approaches and uncoordinated strategies across sectors. This ministry, which is also responsible
for financial oversight, has delegated responsibility for formulating and monitoring the technical aspects of
the privatization program to the project implementation unit (PIU), which collaborates closely with line
ministries. The Govemment has also confirmed its intention to complete the divestiture program, which is
being monitored by the IMF and the World Bank, in the context of the macroeconomic program agreed
with the Govemment. Preparatory work undertaken during the past 18 months has helped solidify the
Govemments privatization strategy and led to the classification of 44 PEs, of which 33 would be
privatized: (a) 11 PEs are classified as utilities, whose divestiture will be undertaken in the context of
sector reform, or companies with limited or no commercial role, which will be retained by the Government;
(b) 14 PEs were significantly damaged during the conflict and will be liquidated; (c) 6 firms are bankrupt
and will be divested through the sale of assets; this group includes BIGB, once the largest bank in the
country; and (d) the remaining 13 firms, including two hotels, will be divested as going concems. A
detailed divestiture action plan has already been developed for all but 8 of the 33 PEs. In addition, the
liquidation and/or sale of the assets of nine PEs only requires final Government approval, which is expected
soon.
-6 -



Another aspect of the divestiture program concerns the outsourcing of custodial and similar services, which
are currently provided by public employees. While these programs are usually associated with civil service
reform, the Government would like to proceed immediately with their outsourcing, following discussions
with the private sector, including unions.
- 7 -



Private Investment Stimulus
During project preparation, public and private stakeholders in Guinea-Bissau emphasized that unless
private investment could be accelerated, some developmental outcomes may fall short of expectations.
More specifically, they have pointed out that in the aftermath of the conflict, most private firms are acutely
short of working capital and have assets which have been severely destroyed or damaged. The 20 or so
leading private enterprises operating in the industrial zone of Bissau were the worst affected by the conflict.
Government's strategy for addressing this issue is two-pronged. First, the depletion of the working capital
is largely a consequence of domestic arrears accumulated by the public sector during and immediately after
the conflict. The Government intends to repay these arrears. Second, the Government has decided to
participate in the efforts to rebuild viable industries. It is already receiving substantial assistance from the
donor community in order to clear validated arrears. Given that, at this point, the needs are largely funded,
the present project will not provide any financing arrears. With respect to the second issue, the project will
finance an EFF to help kick-start private investments. In addition, resources would be made available so
that beneficiaries of the facility can access know-how through consulting services and training.
Legal reform
The present legal system is not conducive to creating a climate necessary to develop private sector
commercial activities. The shortcomings stem from two sources. First, the legal system is antiquated and
constraining, as most of the legislation in force today dates back to the early colonial period. Second, the
institutions which are called upon to enforce and interpret these laws are obsolete and understaffed, and
lack basic working tools. Moreover, land tenure laws are not enabling for the needs of commercial
agriculture and those of non-agricultural businesses, and title registration is deficient. The Government is
aware of intemational experience in modernizing business law, and understands that legal reform is a
long-term process spanning a decade or more. However, this reform is critical to both the private sector
aspects of the PRSP, as well as the objective of empowering the poor through improved access to judicial
services. The Govemmenfs strategy in this area is based on three mutually-reinforcing objectives, which
are: (i) modemizing laws; (ii) improving the efficiency of tribunals; and (iii) enhancing the access of the
civil society and the private sector to the courts and judicial information. Special emphasis will be given
under the project to modemizing business laws and supporting their harmonization with regional initiatives,
especially the OHADA treaty, to make fair and equitable justice readily accessible to citizens and private
enterprises.
Improvement of the Investment Climate
There is a weak enterprise tradition in Guinea-Bissau. The war of independence followed by more than a
decade of centrally-planned economic management, left a very sparse and poorly institutionalized business
community and repressed rural entrepreneurship. The private sector remains at its early stages of
development. Its representative institutions are just emerging and need to be strengthened to be able to fully
assume their role in partnership with Government In addition, the level of institutional capacity in all
branches of the administration is low, and tax, regulatory and administrative procedures greatly constrain
private initiatives. To address these issues, the Government strategy calls for: (i) improvement of the
business environment through the elimination of red-tape and tax-induced distortions; (ii) gradual
elimination of constraints to private investment in six sectors that are considered appropriate entry points
for private sector intervention; and (iii) institutional capacity building in key public agencies and emerging
private associations.
-8 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Infrastructure Reform Program
The first and most important strategic choice made by the Govemment consists of opening all
infrastructure and utilities to private sector participation, either through concession contracts or, as a short
to medium-termn measure, management contracts. In this context, the strategic option has been to prepare
the project under the assumption that it will assist in the implementation of sector reform agendas, which
have been agreed between the Govermment and IDA.
A second strategic choice concems regulatory arrangements, which was extensively debated. among
stakeholders. The Civil Aviation Authority, whose responsibilities cover various types of regulations,
especially technical and safety, is being set-up as a single-sector agency. However, in the case of economic
regulation, which would initially cover the telecommunications, water and energy sectors, the single-sector
approach was not considered a viable option from the institutional or human resources point of view.
Project support to the multi-sector regulatory agency would thus be triggered by the modification of the law
establishing the telecommunication institute so that it becomes a multi-sector regulatory agency.
The Government recognizes that the perception of country risk may deter qualified operators from investing
in Guinea-Bissau. For this reason, the Government is committed to resolving pending issues related to the
two existing concession contracts in a timely manner. The Government also believes that general
improvements in the investment climate, supported by the project, will further reduce the risk perception.
In this context, the MEF has initiated steps for Guinea-Bissau to join MIGA in the near future.
Finally, a tactical decision was made by IDA to refinance the PPFs of the proposed Water and Energy
Project (US$1.95 million) under the present project. This project's preparation has benefited from studies
initiated under the aforementioned PPFs, and the project finances water and energy and the multi-sector
regulatory agency that covers the sector. In addition, refinancing the PPFs frees up scarce PPF resources
for altemative uses that might otherwise remain tied up for an additional year or two.
Privatization and Outsourcing Program
The support provided under the project is part of a well-defined action plan, and benefits from strong
implementation capacity at the PIU. In addition to its small complement of staff, the PIU, with project
financing, would outsource the required technical expertise to local and intemational consultants. In
addition, a twinning arrangement has been agreed with the IDA-funded privatization project in Cape Verde
(Cr. 3121-CV), which when requested, would second its staff to the PIU on a short-term basis. Given that
the privatization process is transitional in nature, the first strategic choice made was to empower the PIU,
a temporary structure, to oversee the technical work.
The second strategic choice, validated by intemational and Guinea-Bissau experience, was to concentrate
responsibility for divestiture to the MEF. The Govemment would approve the final divestiture actions and
would ensure global oversight of the divestiture program. In view of the nature of the firms to be divested,
most of which are small and not operational, and the divestiture methods which will be mainly liquidation
and sale of assets, there was a consensus among stakeholders that a more complex institutional
arrangement, such as a privatization commission, would not be needed.
The third strategic choice concerns the outsourcing of basic public services. By undertaking this pilot
program, the Govemment not only aims to achieve efficiency gains and budgetary savings, but also to
-9-



provide new opportunities to the private sector. Should this program prove successful, it could in due
course be extended to other activities.
It is estimated that about 1,000 PE employees will have to be retrenched. Most people concemed are
employed by PEs that are no longer operational or are employees whose functions will be outsourced.
Thus, the fourth strategic choice concerns the financing by the Credit of retrenchment costs. This choice is
dictated by the fact that net divestiture proceeds are not expected to be significant and that the
Government's fiscal situation does not leave any room for financing retrenchment using public resources.
The Government has designed a policy for the retrenchment of PE workers in accordance with the law.
Procedures governing retrenchment have been finalized and are part of the project implementation manual
(PIM).
The fifth strategic choice was an up-front Government decision to liquidate BIGB, as provided for under
the banking legislation. The nature of BIGB's liabilities is such that there exists a substantial financial
difference between this option and restructuring the bank. The latter could cost the Govemment about
eight times more than the fortner and for this and institutional reasons such as the technical skills of the
staff and weak intemal procedures, the restructuring option was not considered feasible. The liquidation
strategy calls for the reimbursement of small depositors to reduce the social impact and the impact on the
financial system of default, but also for an aggressive policy of debt collection to reduce the moral hazard
of the operation. The timing of this operation will be dependent, however, on the availability of resources to
pay the small depositors. A donor is expected to provide the required funding of about US$1.8 million.
The liquidation of BIGB in theory implies that banking services will no longer be available outside the city
of Bissau. In practice, BIGB stopped operating its rural branches since the conflict and the liquidation
would impose no additional hardship on the population. Furthermore, the Govemment strategy calls for
taking full advantage of Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) rules that would
allow the establishment in Guinea-Bissau of a bank already licensed in another UEMOA country. It is
expected that as the commercial banking services develop in the capital, these will progressively extend to
other areas, if necessary with some temporary support from the Government.
Private Investment Stimulus
One strategic choice has been not to provide any financing for arrears under the present project, even
though addressing this issue is an integral part of the Government PSD strategy. Second, there was
considerable thinking among stakeholders and exchanges with IDA on whether and how support to private
investment financing ought to be provided. There was a consensus on the strategic decision to proceed with
an EFF to kick-start investments. However, there was a wide range of proposals on the modalities of how
to implement the stimulus. The equity approach, which precludes the access to the facility by greenfield
projects, was finally adopted because it was relatively simple to implement and would not create the type of
distortions, which a subsidized line of credit could cause, and would help ensure high incremental economic
and financial rates of return.
Legal Reform
Once the Government joined UEMOA, it ratified the OHADA Treaty which became effective in January
1998. Business legislation therefore needs to be revised. In view of resource constraints, a good deal of
selectivity was also used to decide on the nature of support to the judiciary, which has resulted in the
project focusing on building capacity in only one tribunal in Bissau. Given the interest expressed by other
donors, the project will not finance certain activities in the legal reform programn. One aspect of legal
reform is to improve governance in Guinea-Bissau. An important aspect of this concerns the procurement
- 10 -



reform program which was agreed at the donor round table in July 2000. This reform would contribute to
an improved investment climate. Measures taken so far include the draft procurement code produced by
the Intemational Trade Commission (ITC) under review by the Bank. Subsequent phases (including
training and implementation) will also be coordinated by ITC under Dutch bilateral aid. it is also
recognized that Guinea-Bissau is emerging from conflict and needs rehabilitation before businesses can
operate efficiently. In this context it would be important to (i) build a solid relationship between the public
and private sectors with respect to Govemment procurement (how to bid, contract and implement, and what
is in the pipe line to encourage local bidder participation) and (ii) increase the awareness of private
businesses with respect to sound procurement practices (competitive shopping rather than direct purchase,
usinlg intemational bidding practices for larger contracts, using intemationally tested documentation for
greater specificity to avoid problems of inadequate supplies). The PIU is expected to be instrumental in
this area, where over time as the country rebuilds the project would provide assistance for capacity
building.
Improvement of the Investment Climate
The main strategic choice has been to follow a project preparation process that would ensure project
ownership by beneficiaries. The project has been designed to ensure "buy-in" from the different
stakeholders and is expected to operate in a participatory and consensus-building fashion. In terms of other
strategic choices, the project would build on existing constituencies of reforms. For instance, it incorporates
some of the most promising and successful components of the USAID-funded TIPS Project with a view to
consolidate their achievement, notably in the areas of legal and regulatory reforms, development of farmer
and business associations, the spread of small-scale agro-processing technologies, and revision of fiscal and
non-fiscal investment incentives. With respect to private associations, one strategic choice agreed between
stakeholders and the World Bank is to make support output-based. Financing provided under the project
would thus be contingent on satisfactory implementation of agreed business plans.
Implementation Arrangements
Experience with PIU's in Africa has been mixed. The main reason for the choice of the PIU as an
implementing agency is that the project unit approach has proved successful in Guinea-Bissau, and has
enabled some of the most qualified people in the country to be hired on competitive terms. Furthermore,
this structure is reinforced by a representative steering committee and a number of technical committees,
which help ensure strong stakeholder ownership.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project would support the following major elements in the Govemment's private sector-led,
poverty alleviation strategy:
Project Component 1: Building Partnerships and Private Participation (US$16.31 million, of which
US$13.44 million isfinanced by IDA)
This component would help the Govemment address a key bottleneck to private sector participation in
economic activity caused by poor utility and infrastructure services. The main focus of the project would be
to support and/or prepare the reform of the telecommunications, air transport, port, water and energy
-11 -



sectors. In this context, the project would assist in attracting private investments in these sectors and in the
implementation of the necessary legal and regulatory reforms, and would fund related capacity building,
especially in a multi-sector regulatory agency. In addition, assistance under this component would facilitate
the complete withdrawal of an overextended public sector from activities that can best be undertaken by the
private sector. The project would thus support divestiture from public enterprises, including the liquidation
of a bankrupt commercial bank and the outsourcing of custodial public services. In the context of
privatization, the project would finance the retrenchment cost of redundant workers. The last activity of this
component would help kick-start private sector activities by providing an EFF that would match resources
mobilized by private entrepreneurs for viable productive investments. Access to this equity facility would
be limited to existing private firms whose assets were damaged during the conflict and divested private
enterprises; support to greenfield activities would be excluded. Initial funding for this component, except
for the EFF, has been provided under the PPF and project implementation would thus benefit from this
work.
Project Component 2: Improving the Investment Climate (US$5.54 million, of which US$3.6 million
is fi nanced by IDA)
This component will help implement legal reform by making important advances in modernizing business
laws and making fair and equitable justice more readily accessible to individuals and private enterprises, a
long-term effort. Activities include improving institutional capacity in the main tribunal of Bissau, which
handles most of the business cases, harmonization of national laws with OH-ADA, and providing
complementary training and technical assistance to strengthen the judicial system and the legal profession.
The design of these activities is based on an analysis of the situation in Guinea-Bissau, and complemented
with lessons learned from similar reforms in other UEMOA and/or OHADA countries. French aid would
provide parallel financing to the project in this area. The other thrust of this component is to improve the
business environment in Guinea-Bissau. First, the project would support the progressive alleviation of
administrative barriers and the rationalization of tax-induced investment incentives, and eliminate
associated distortions. These initiatives will also be supported by Financial Investment Advisory Services
(FIAS). Second, the project would assist in the assessment of policy and institutional constraints to
develop six key subsectors which are regarded as promising entry points for private investment, with a view
to alleviating these constraints. This would result in improved supply chains, and ultimately enhance the
international competitiveness of these sectors. Institutional support to four emerging private organizations,
as well as public agencies, will also be provided through this component
Project Component 3: Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building (US$3.70 million, of which
US$3.5 million is financed by IDA)
Strong project implementation capacity is always a key to attaining development objectives. In view of the
weakness and frequent changes in the civil service, the relatively weak institutional capacity in the country,
and the challenge of closing the policy and economic gap with other countries in the sub-region, the need
for strong project implementation capacity is even more crucial in Guinea-Bissau than it is elsewhere.
Stakeholders recognized this problem early on, and have assembled a strong team, funded by the PPF, to
ensure that appropriate implementation capacity exists. The component will continue to support this team
as well as vanious aspects of project management and implementation, including monitoring and evaluation.
-12 -



Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(USSM)     Total     (USSM)    financing
I. Building Partnerships and Private  Privatization    16.31       51.9     13.44      51.7
Participation
2. Improving the Investment Climate  Business            5.54      17.6      3.60       13.8
Environment
3. Supporting Implementation and  Institutional          3.70      11.8      3.50       13.5
Capacity Building              Development
Reimbursement of PPFs                                  3.94      12.5       3.94      15.2
Contingencies                                          1.91       6.1       1.52       5.8
Total Project Costs                   31.40     100.0      26.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                     31.40     100.0      26.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Government has taken several policy decisions up-front, including: (a) empowering the MEF to implement
the privatization program; (b) privatizing remaining PEs; (c) conducting infrastructure sector reform to
facilitate private participation and to foster competition; (d) regulating the infrastructure sector reform
through a irulti-sector regulatory agency; and (e) adopting an action-plan for reducing administrative
barriers. By end-2002, these decisions are expected to be materialized into legal and institutional changes.
The project will support key policy reforms, including the following:
* Competition, legal and regulatory reforms in the telecommunications, transport, electricity and water
sectors.
* Policies and institutional arrangements for the multi-sectoral regulatory agency.
* Existing policies and institutional arrangements for the privatization program. The liquidation of
BIGB will have significant implications for financial sector reform, and constitutes an important step in
establishing a viable banking sector. Similarly, the privatization of hotels is central to improving
prospects in the tourism sector.
* Outsourcing certain public services.
* Addressing labor issues in the context of privatization and outsourcing public services.
*   Accelerated legal reform to modernize laws and ensure consistency with OH-ADA and strengthening the
judiciary.
*   Alleviation of administrative barriers, elimination of red tape and strengthening supply chains. An
indirect effect of these reforms will be in the form of improved governance through the reduction of
rent-seeking behavior by public officials.
* Simplification of the corporate tax regime and reduction of tax-induced distortions.
* Capacity building in public institutions that interface with the private sector and in emerging private
organizations.
Finally, the project will help build institutional capacity of project implementation and management by
supporting the operations of a highly capable, professional PIU. This unit will coordinate various
subcomponents and in collaboration with stakeholders, implement the project.
- 13 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project supports Government's efforts to alleviate poverty in three ways. First, it is expected to
increase the welfare of the local population, the end users of public service, through increased quality and
improved access. Second, the project is expected to enhance and stimulate private sector-led employment
and economic growth by contributing to fiscal and macroeconomic equilibrium, improving the economic
and business environment, encouraging directly and indirectly viable private investment, and increasing
productivity. Finally, the proposed legal reforms would be an important first step towards the goal of
empowering the poor. The project would benefit three broad target groups:
*   Private sector: The business community mainly consists of many very small informal entrepreneurs
with low incomes, a lesser number of SME traders and manufacturers, and a few foreign investors who
are active in fisheries and other selected areas. The project will benefit entrepreneurs by reducing
uncertainties and transaction costs of doing business in Guinea-Bissau by: (a) providing transparent
commercial legislation and effective property rights and improving the functioning of the judiciary; (b)
reducing production costs through improved efficiency and availability of utility and infrastructure
services; and (c) better working supply chains in six key subsectors. Other benefits will also accrue
through improved institutional capacity to emerging private sector association, which will strengthen
private/public partnerships.
*   Rural communities and local population: In the short-term, the PE workforce will be downsized as a
result of the retrenchment of excess staff, of which only a portion will find immediate employment
opportunities. However, in the medium-term, the project would lead to a reduction in unemployment
through its effect on the creation of additional job opportunities in the private sector, including in firms
not operating at present, but that are likely to be rehabilitated with the assistance of the project. The
project's emphasis on rural entrepreneurship and agribusiness would be particularly beneficial to rural
communities, which employ over 80 percent of the country's workforce. The local population would
also benefit through better services from more efficient public utilities, including telecommunications
and transport services. An effective judiciary would contribute to social welfare by guaranteeing the
basic property rights of citizens as well as businesses.
*   Government: The project would help improve the balance of payments through increased foreign direct
investment and higher export revenues. It would also enhance public revenue collection, one of the most
acute problems in Guinea-Bissau, by encouraging medium and large enterprises to operate in the
formal rather than the informal sector. Improved efficiency and more predictable decision-making in
the judicial process would increase public confidence in the judiciary and its role in enforcing the laws,
and the stability of Government institutions. Finally, the Government would also directly benefit from
improved infrastructure services, which should lead to greater public sector productivity.
4. Institutional and implementafion arrangements:
Implementation Period: Five and half years, September 2002 - March 2008.
Executing Agency: The MEF would be responsible for implementing the project. Day-to-day project
implementation will be delegated to a professional secretariat, the PIU. To this end, the Ministry has
established and staffed the PIU and delegated project management to it Privatization responsibility is
being centralized at the MEF and responsibility for overseeing completion of transactions is delegated to
the PIU. In the case of infrastructure and utility reform where privatization also includes various aspects
of sector strategy and regulation, the PIU will work closely with line Ministries (notably the Ministry of
Social Infrastructure) and regulation agencies. With respect to the investment climate component, the PIU
- 14 -



will work as a facilitator and collaborate closely with stakeholders, especially the Ministry of Justice and
the private sector, to achieve the intended results. The Ministry would also substantially delegate its
oversight role to the project Steering Committee and various Technical Committees, Working Groups
and/or Task Forces.
The PIU is headed by a project coordinator who will report directly to the MEF and who will be
accountable for achieving intended project outputs and certain outcomes. An experienced project
coordinator has been appointed. He will 'be supported on a full time basis by a team of professional
national consultants grouped in a technical division and an administrative division. The technical division
will be responsible for ensuring that expected project outputs are attained and undertaking the necessary
monitoring and evaluation.  The technical team would include four full time national component
coordinators, all of whom have already been hired. These coordinators would be mainly responsible for: (a)
legal reform and located at the Ministry of Justice; (b) privatization of commercial and industrial PEs; (c)
infrastructure and regulatory reforms; and (d) initiatives to improve the investment. One of these experts
would also be designated as deputy project director and act for the director during his absence. In addition,
an international contractor will be hired to manage the EFF.
The administrative unit will be responsible for the overall project administration, accounting and
procurement functions. This unit will be headed by a project manager and supported by three professiorials
in the areas of administration, accounting, and procurement. This staff will help ensure compliance with
satisfactory financial management procedures and reporting. The hiring of the PIU team was completed in
mid-2001 and experience under the PPFs has enabled the fine-tuning of implementation arrangements in a
mainer to ensure that the PIU will be able to fulfill its responsibilities well and in a timely manner.
The PIU will also be strengthened on a continuous basis through appropriate training. As needs evolve, it
will contract short-term national or international specialists to help it deliver its work program. The project
would finance the team and about 48 person-months of short-term international or local experts to assist
the PIU team in the implementation of its work program, as well as other PIU staff, training, equipment,
operating costs, etc. During the final year of implementation, reflecting the expected decreased level of
activity, the number of staff of the PIU will be progressively reduced to about half. At the conclusion of
the project, it is expected that the PIU would cease to exist, unless the Government decides to use the
established capacity and mandates it to implement a yet undefined project funded by IDA or another donor.
In addition to these institutional arrangements, informal and formal mechanisms to ensure coordination of
all parties concerned (i.e., various ministries, private sector representatives and donors) will be established.
Stakeholder consultations are thus an integral part of the project design. To this end, a high level project
Steering Committee has been set up. This committee will act as an advisory board for the project and will
periodically monitor project implementation, review achievements, work programs and budgets. Additional
coordination mechanisms also exist for each component. In certain cases for specific activities, various
Working Groups have been established to ensure full stakeholder involvement in the implementation of the
project and help maximize its impact.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Some of the project design is based on a series of pilot initiatives and
feedback that determine subsequent actions. Monitoring and evaluations are therefore key functions that
would be carried out by the PIU. A monthly monitoring table and progress reports would be prepared each
semester by the PIU. A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP), Financial Management Plan and overall
Procurement Plan have been designed during project preparation to produce a Project Implementation
Manual (PIM). The PIM includes inter alia, all periodic reporting, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements throughout the project cycle. Apart from periodic reports and standard monitoring
- 15 -



arrangements, the PIM calls for bi-annual independent operational audits, which will provide impact
assessments and identify ways to improve project implementation. Finally a mid-term review is planned for
June 2005. The objective of this review would be to assess progress to date and, if necessary, redirect the
project integrating additional lessons leamed and the realities on the ground.
Financial Management and Auditing: The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures under the proposed project are acceptable to all stakeholders.
Qualified Bank staff undertook a financial management review and a procurement review during project
preparation. lndependent auditors acceptable to the Association, already recruited internationally under the
PPF, would audit the project accounts, the accounts of the PIU and as needed, those of other implementing
agencies, on an annual basis according to intemationally accepted auditing standards. Following standard
Bank requirements and guidelines, audits should be completed within six months of the end of the fiscal
year. During project preparation, IDA prepared an assessment of the Financial Management Systems
(FMS) of the project, including a time bound plan to achieve compliance with expected norms and
standards. The FMS, as well as auditing arrangements satisfactory to IDA, were agreed with the
Govemment. Two special accounts, for a total of US$ 1.5 million, will be set up for the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project consists of mutually reinforcing components. The broad scope of the project reflects the
diversity of urgent needs identified in Guinea-Bissau, especially after the conflict. The proposed approach
would help ensure that a critical mass of reforms is undertaken to attain private sector supply response and
the achievement of development outcomes. Given the need to ensure a critical mass of reforms, the
efficiency gains because of the small size of the country, and the absence of alternative sources of
financing, the option of dividing the project into two operations - a privatization and infrastructure reform
project and a PSD project, was not pursued. Other project altematives were also considered and are
discussed below.
One option considered was to support the reform program under a sector adjustment operation. This
option was rejected as it would have led to a hybrid operation and because many of the reforms envisaged,
which involve institutional capacity building and microeconomic and regulatory reforms, do not lend
themselves to adjustment conditionality. The possibility that some key refomis supported by the project will
be included in future policy-based lending is not excluded. The initial project design prepared prior to the
conflict would have placed greater emphasis on the financial sector, especially micro-finance development,
and technology and know-how transfer to the private sector through a matching grant. Some elements of
this approach remain in the project, but these areas were de-emphasized in order to meet the post-conflict
needs of the private sector. Furthermore, other donors, especially the lntemational Fund for Agricultural
Development and USAID, have indicated their intention to support these areas.
During project preparation and appraisal, stakeholders suggested two activities that could be supported by
the project. The first involved financing of domestic arrears to private sector suppliers accumulated by the
Govemment during the conflict period and soon thereafter. While this action remains part of the PSD
program, the financing provided by IDA under the ERRC and other donors, especially the European Union,
obviated the need to include financing for payment of arrears in the project. Second, stakeholders requested
support for investment financing. An altemative to the EFF being proposed would have been to either
provide a line of credit facility to be channeled through the commercial banks or to develop an independent
financial institution, such as a development bank, that would admninister lines of credit and undertake
- 16 -



project financing, possibly at subsidized rates. At present, the local banking structure is too weak to be an
effective conduit for financing private investment and working capital, and the line of credit facility could
not be pursued. With the expected entry of regional banks into the market following the liquidation of the
bankrupt BIGB, financial intermediation in Guinea-Bissau should progressively improve. Given the costs
and time required to set up a new institution, and the poor record of development banks in particular, the
option of establishing a new institution was not viable. The EFF proposed under the project is less costly
to administer than other altematives, encourages domestic resource mobilization, and is consistent with the
Bank policy on financial intermediation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
._______________________________   _________________________  (Bank-finance d   projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progresa (IP)  Objective (DO)
Energy Sector: Privatization and  GW-PE-1000, Credit               S             U
liberalization of petroleum distribution  2237-GUB
and preparation for the privatization of (Closed on 12/31/97)
the power and water utilities.
Economic Management Project: Public GW-PE-101 1, Credit            S             S
sector and public finance management. 2342-GUB
(Closed on 10/31/00)
Social Investment Fund Project:   GW-PE-35915, Credit              S             S
Transport and urban infrastructure  2748-GUB
development.                      (Closed on 12/31/00)
Macroeconomic management:         GW-PE-P065725, Credit            S             S
Financing of domestic arrears and  3349-GUB
macroeconomic stabilization.      (Under Supervision)
Water and Energy Sector Reform:   Water and Energy Project,
Privatization, sector reform      (Under preparation)
Other development agencies
Investment Climate                USAID TIPS (Completed in
1998)
Microfinance                      U SAID (Ongoing)
Microfinance and agribusiness     IFAD (Being prepared)
development                                                  ...
Port reforn, removing sunken ships  Netherlands (Being finalized)
Labor retrenchment (salary and pension EU (Government has contacted
arrears)                          donor)                             - -
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 17 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design has benefited from lessons learned in previous projects in Guinea-Bissau, notably in the
area of privatization and from the TIPS project. It also incorporates lessons learned elsewhere and
best-practice features to address PSD, financing, privatization and infrastructure problems. These lessons
include:
Ensuring the existence of strong implementation capacity is a key to success in less developed and
post-conflict countries. Government has strived not only to assemble the best available team, which is
widely respected, but also to make sure that the PIU has the resources to fulfill its mandate. Further
incentives for good performance will be incorporated into the contracts for team leaders and the project
coordinator, and up to 25 percent of their remuneration would be based on output targets. This
approach will also be used in the proposed support to private associations, where project funding
would be released as these associations meet quarterly and/or annual targets derived from their
business plans.
 Government commitnent to and leadership of the privatization and sector reform program are
essential for success. There is a broad consensus on the need for reform among the key political parties
in Guinea-Bissau, and the Government has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to the reform agenda.
However, there have been frequent changes of personalities in Government, which require confirmation
of previous agreements, and thus delay the reform agenda. The project design takes this into account by
building in periodic consultations with the Government. To facilitate implementation of the divestiture
program, the Government has made the MEF responsible for the privatization process. The
privatization component will be implemented by the PIU, which has adequate experience and capacity
to implement the reforms and access to outsourced specialized advisory services financed under
project.
* Resources need to be available to mitigate the social costs of reforms. The project will fund
severance packages for redundant employees.
* The privatization of infrastructure should take place in the context of a well-defined sector
strategy. Sector strategies that specify competition, pricing and other legal and regulatory policies have
been prepared.
*   The regulatory agency should be independent from political influence and interference, and
financially and institutionally sustainable The multi-sector approach towards economic regulation
explicitly integrates this lesson.
*  Integrate experiences of similar legal reform programs The experience in the sub-region in the
OHiADA context have led to a fairly well-defined methodology that is integrated in the project.
* Impact of policy changes needs to be monitored to ensure that intended results are being achieved
and to provide information feedback to a process that is necessarily iterative. The project design
incorporates this approach and calls for, among others, three surveys aimed at quantifying the impact
of the investment climate on firns.
* Need to keep stakeholders engaged from the beginning of the process and throughout the
implementation of the program. This approach was an important aspect of project preparation and is
an integral part of the project implementation arrangements.
- 18 -



*  Need to make investment capital availablefor reconstruction in post-conflict countries. The design
of the EFF incorporates an innovative approach. Nevertheless, it takes into account relevant successes
and failures of lines of credit and of venture capital schemes funded by the Bank.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Frequent changes in the Government leadership are part of the post conflict realities of Guinea-Bissau. This
leads to discontinuities in Borrower commitment and ownership. Nevertheless, good ownership exists and
various consecutive governments, as well as other stakeholders, have repeatedly pressed for a Bank
initiative in this area and thus have welcomed Bank involvement The Borrower has explicitly made PSD a
major plank in its national development poverty alleviation strategy and has already initiated work in many
of the areas to be covered by the project Furthermore, the Government commitment to the PSD program is
clearly stated in the sector policy statement and has taken the necessary up front actions that reflect its
commitment to reform.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank Group, including IDA and FIAS, is seen by local stakeholders such as Government officials,
donors and private sector as having credibility in the fields of privatization, private partnerships and
investment climate reform. There are a few donors involved in PSD in Guinea-Bissau, and IDA support is
seen as the key and indeed often the only source of financing for the implementation of the PSD program.
In addition, the Bank is viewed in Guinea-Bissau as being well-placed to provide advice and technical
assistance to manage the complexities of the reform program, notably privatization and investment climate
enhancement Through Bank involvement, the PSD program will thus benefit from lessons leamed
elsewhere, the credibility of Government's efforts will be enhanced and the participatory process will be
reinforced.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$5.2 million, ERR = 19.6 % (see Annex 4)
(9 Cost effectiveness
(.9 Other (specify)
The net present value of the project is estimated at about US$5.2 million for a 12 percent discount rate and
its internal rate of return is estimated at 19.6 percent. A sensitivity analysis revealed that the project is
robust even when key assumptions deteriorate, giving a low probability to obtain a negative NPV. The
component dealing with the improvement of the investment climate, which includes the EFF, showed a
satisfactory rate of 19 percent. Most of the expected benefits would occur in the medium to long-term
since the project is expected to facilitate institutional development in both the public and private sectors.
The identified indirect benefits were quantified to obtain their monetary values because no direct recovery
mechanisms have been built into the project. Benefits for which monetary values were imputed include the
additional income generated from the newly created jobs, economic efficiency from the reduction in factor
costs and private equity investment Expected benefits from the project which are difficult to quantify
include improved economic management, a conducive business environment, poverty alleviation and a
reduction in social distress following the civil war. Moreover, it is expected that the project would help
increase performance and efficiency of privatized enterprises, promote investment and facilitate private
sector and economic growth.
The identified project benefits include: (i) productivity gains; (ii) increased output resulting from additional
- 19 -



capital investment by privatized firms; and (iii) additional income from the net creation of jobs in the
private sector. The rehabilitation of the business and enabling environment, disrupted by the civil war,
would contribute to the project's long- term development impact.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Ainex 4)
Given the technical assistance nature of the project, there are no clear revenue streams that would permit a
straightforward financial analysis. However, it is assumed that the financial costs and benefits are equated
to economic costs and benefits. Eligibility criteria for financing under the EFF includes a minimal
projected financial rate of return of 15 percent.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact is estimated at US$1.2 million over the life of the project (2002-2008), mainly from
direct and indirect corporate taxes and personal income taxes. Due to the small size of the state-owned
companies to be divested, proceeds from privatization and savings on subsidies are expected to be limited.
3. Technical:
The project will help attract private investment, bringing new technology and management. know-how in
enterprises that the State will divest or those that benefit from the EFF. In particular, it is expected that
technology will be improved in the telecommunications sector, based on new trends in the sector and on
market needs. The support to six subsectors will contribute to the improvement of managerial skills and
technology in the overall private sector.
4. Institutional:
Under the previous operation related to the sector, high tumover of counterparts and Government officials
had constrained the implementation of programs. While this risk also exists in the project, it is moderated
by the stability of the PIU and strong stakeholder participation in project implementation. In this respect,
the Govemment has been quite willing to involve the private sector in the management and oversight of the
project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Overall project implementation will be placed under the PIU. The PIU will also be the secretariat to the
Steering Committee, responsible for overall project oversighL
4.2 Project management:
A project coordinator, who will have the oversight of a project coordination unit in charge of operational
and financial management functions, has been competitively selected by the Government. The PIU
coordinators and team leaders will be accountable to work closely with other public and private
stakeholders to facilitate project execution. The EFF will be managed independently by an intemationally
recruited expert.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Special attention has been given to procurement issues during project preparation.  As a result,
procurement under the PPF was satisfactory. The capacity that was built during the implementation of the
PPF, including hiring a local procurement expert, learning on the job and formal training, will serve as a
basis to handle procurement issues consistently with Bank procedures. In addition, the PIU will recruit an
international/regional expert to assist in more complex transactions. A detailed draft procurement plan for
2002 and 2003, and a more global one for the project as a whole has been prepared by the PIU and
discussed during negotiations. The detailed plan will be finalized and submitted to the Bank prior to
-20 -



effectiveness. Experience under the PPF indicates that, as a result of the capacity built in the PIU,
procurement has been undertaken satisfactorily.  Nevertheless, this area would benefit from  the
implementation of the aforementioned procurement reform program coordinated by ITC.
4.4 Finanicial management issues:
The Financial Management Assessment for the PSRDP was conducted based on the Guidelines to Staff
issued by the Financial Management Sector Board, dated June 30, 2001. The objective of the assessment
was to determine whether the PIU, which is responsible for the implementation of the project, has put into
place acceptable financial management arrangements as required by the Bank's policies, including an
entities' system of accounting, reporting, auditing and internal controls. The formal assessment was carried
out in the field during the period of December 20-22, 2001, followed by desk review and report writing in
the office.
The financial management arrangements of the PSRDP are similar to those of classical PIU implementing a
World Bank financed project, as the project's overall implementation responsibility including financial
management, lies with the PIU. Therefore, the PIU has, as far as financial management is concerned, the
responsibility to collect and control invoices, manage the project's bank accounts, make payments,
maintain the accounts and prepare the financial reports. The financial management assessment aimed at
identifying whether the PIU has the capacity to handle all of these tasks, and if not, what are the
weaknesses and strengthening measures to be implemented.
Overall, the PIU has a relatively satisfactory financial management capacity and the draft PPF audit
includes an unqualified opinion. The financial and accounting staff are already in place. They have good
academic background, as well as professional experience to undertake project financial management.
However, there are two weaknesses. The first is that although the PIU has been implementing the project's
PPF over the last three years, there are few written procedures ensuring that adequate administrative and
financial management procedures, including internal controls are continuously and consistently applied by
all staff. This also has an impact on the efficiency and quality of the segregation of duties among staff in
the finance unit, as respective responsibilities are not clearly defined. A manual of procedures for the
project is being finalized to address these issues and will be completed by effectiveness. The other weakness
is that although the project has acquired a computerized FMS, it is not fully operational yet. The system is
still being tested, but it was found to have all the functions necessary to keep track and report on the
project's expenses by source of funding, expenditure categories, components, subcomponents, activities,
beneficiaries, etc. The system has also a procurement module (including procurement planning and contract
monitoring) and a physical progress monitoring module, which allows the user to define a set of indicators
and monitor them. In addition the reporting module is ready for Project Management Reports (PMR) and
needs some adjustment to be able to print Financial Management Reports (FMR) as defined in the recent
guidelines on FMR. Consultants are currently in Bissau and the system is expected to be fully operational
by April 2002.
All issues identified above have been addressed in the action plan to strengthen the PIU financial
management capacity, which has been discussed and agreed with the PIU. This action plan has been
confirmed during appraisal and negotiation and will be implemented by credit effectiveness, as under the
new guidelines, project implementing entities have to be able to prepare reliable FMR before the project
implementation begins. Two special accounts with a total advance of US$1.5 million, subject to IDA's
standard terms and conditions, will be opened in a sound commercial bank. The situation of the banking
sector in Guinea-Bissau could put Bank's funds at risk and will be closely monitored. To limit the Bank's
exposure, the amount of the authorized allocation, as well as SOE limits, will be determined  taking
account of the situation of the banking sector in Guinea-Bissau.
-21 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The main environmental issues associated with the project relate to the need to adequately mitigate
environmental hazard and risk factors in the plants and operations of the PEs concerned, prior to their
divestiture. The PE divestiture program includes major PEs in sectors where environmental issues can be
expected to arise. These will need review and analysis, and where warranted, mitigation and clean up. The
PIU has adopted standards and guidelines for preparation of environmental assessments and
implementation of actions required.
Since the project focuses principally on providing technical support for the implementation of the overall
privatization program and not investment in PEs, the environmental assessment and mitigation work is best
done during project implementation as part of the process leading up to divestiture. The principal actions in
preparation for the IDA credit have been to undertake a pre-audit survey of the PEs to identify the extent
and principal types of environmental clean-up and mitigation activity that will need to be carried out before
PE divestiture.
During preparation a pre-audit study was undertaken that:
covered compliance and contingent liability assessments, mitigation and monitoring procedures;
focused on environmental impacts associated with air and water quality, solid and hazardous waste
discharges, and occupational health and safety issues at the facility under investigation;
helped to rank the enterprises according to the anticipated environmental liability and determine which
of the enterprises need to have comprehensive audits and assessments and which need partial and no
audit at all prior to the privation.
The pre-audit study included a total of 17 enterprises. The study indicated that six PEs will require full
audits and remediation plans, four PEs will require a partial audit; and seven PEs require no. audit
(bank/service firms and 5 shut-down firms).
The EFF is expected to finance rehabilitation of existing firms: privatized PEs and private firms, especially
those that have suffered from war damage. The former group have already been covered by the "pre-audit".
As for the latter group, the beneficiary firms are not yet known at this stage. Therefore, the environmental
guidelines developed under the project will be followed in the feasibility study of the proposed investment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The environmental management plan (EMP) for the project has been reviewed by a World Bank senior
environmental specialist and is satisfactory. In implementing the PE privatization program, the PIU will
apply the environmental impact assessment (EA) guidelines to be adopted by the Government to assess
environmental risks, mitigation and clean-up requirements, as part of the preparation of each PE
divestiture. The priority sectors and PEs requiring in-depth environmental assessment and mitigation work
have been identified as part of the pre-audit work. Based upon the EA, mitigation and clean-up work would
be undertaken as part of PE divestiture implementation.
Each enterprise will have on its premises a Senior Official responsible for environmental management
activities. This person will liaise with the environmental advisor of the PIU on environmental regulations
pertaining to the activities of the enterprise. This person will also participate in training and be part of the
capacity building for environmental management.
- 22 -



The environmental advisor of the PIU will coordinate and support the development of environmental
management plans that link city/local Government EMPs with those of the PEs to be privatized. The
enterprises will develop and incorporate EMPs into their management structures. The project's EMP has
been prepared by specialist consultants and includes:
* execution of environmental monitoring programs for the enterprises;
* knowledge and compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations;
* conduct of occasional drills to alert staff and workers on how to react and operate in cases
of emergencies;
* development of capacity to execute coherent sampling and monitoring programs as part of remediation
plans; and
* medical monitoring, including HItV/AIDS awareness programs.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations with stakeholders were carried out whenever possible during the field inspections of various
facilities and sites for the enterprises. In general, there was knowledge about the privatization and
commercialization processes currently being pursued by the Government at most of the enterprises.
Seminars and workshops were held with stakeholder groups for this purpose, and to discuss preliminary
findings of the pre-audit as well as key elements for the environmental assessment guidelines to be adopted.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The mechanism to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project will be developed as part of the full and
partial environmental audit for each individual PE. Each EMP will identify activities with potential
environmental impacts, describe methods to mitigate and monitor those impacts, identify persons
responsible for implementing the elements of the plan and appropriate training for those individuals, and
prescribe a schedule and cost estimate for implementation. Surveys of privatized PEs to be undertaken to
monitor and evaluate the project's economic impact would also include an assessment of environmental
mitigation measures.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The principal social issue related to the project concerns the retrenchment and the severance compensation
of PE employees and outsourced workers. The Government has defined and intends to implement a policy
for PE severance and compensation, that is equitable, fiscally affordable, and economically efficient. This
policy reflects international experiences that point to the importance of a consistent across-the-board policy
to be adopted that sets out the terms and conditions of PE employee severance compensation and
retrenchment to ensure equity, and to minimize the fiscal costs. Severance payments beyond statutory
requirements, if any, will be based on realistic estimates of future wage losses resulting from
re-employment difficulties and dislocation problems.
- 23 -



Attention will also be paid to women entrepreneurs and informal sector entrepreneurs (who are often not
represented in Government policy discussions with the private sector) to ensure their participation in the
project.
A review on resettlement has been undertaken under project preparation. There is no resettlement expected.
However, the project resettlement guidelines have been developed and will be applied in the unlikely event
that they are required.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The principal stakeholder groups are: potential private investors, entrepreneurs, PE managers and
employees, taxpayers and the public at large, general customers and the urban and rural poor (through
increase in access to services), the service providers (through cessation of Government interference), and
the Government (through reduction of subsidies). The Govemment has taken a proactive approach to
enlisting the support of these constituencies through its public information efforts. The PIU has organized
workshops and seminars to explain and discuss the privatization program with major stakeholder groups
and to elicit feedback and comments. In addition, the PIU has organized public information events,
including media announcements and broadcasts in national television and radio, to discuss the privatization
program as well as various aspects of investment climate reform with key stakeholder groups and the
general public. Special attention is also being paid to ensure that stakeholders are not only involved in
project design, but that their participation will also be sustained during its implementation. The main
institutional instrument for ensuring that this objective is attained are the Steering Committee and various
task forces that include private sector, NGO and donor representatives have been or are being established.
Finally, labor unions have been consulted on the potential impact of retrenchrnient on workers and the
outsourcing program benefits from their full support.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As explained under 6.2, all stakeholders are involved through workshops, communication campaign, and,
where relevant, working groups provided their inputs and will continue to do so during project
implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Progress reports on the implementation of the PSD program will be produced every semester. These
internal evaluations will be complemented by various periodic impact assessments. These reports will
include feedback from concerned stakeholder groups on the effectiveness on the program. With respect to
other aspects of the program, working group sessions among relevant stakeholders will be held to allow
participatory assessment of progress made and outstanding issues.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Operational audits and other surveys will be undertaken periodically (e.g., every 24 months for the former)
among concerned stakeholder groups to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the PSD program.
-24 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes (.J No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     Q'Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 437)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See Section E.5 above with respect to environmental issues. Even though resettlement problems are not
expected to arise, a framework for addressing such issues has been developed during project preparation.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project provides financial, technical assistance and associated institutional and policy support for a
well-defined, time-bound process involving privatization, infrastructure and investment climate reform and
stimulating private investments. The irreversible nature of most of these actions significantly enhances the
likelihood that, once implemented, they will be largely irreversible. One risk concerns the possibility that
the implementation of some of the measures may be incomplete. This risk is being moderated by the IDA
support that would help ensure that human and other resources are available for implementing the
programs, and by the participatory approach built into project design that would ensure timely feedback
and corrective measures being adopted to address any shortcoming identified. High turnover of staff is
another factor that has, in the past, limited sustainability of the institutional reform program. This risk is
partially addressed through the competitive remuneration of PIU staff as well as those of the regulatory
agency, and through training to be provided throughout the project to key counterpart agencies and the
private sector. Furthermore, certain institutions and mechanisms, such as the PIU, privatization and
infrastructure arrangements and the EFF, are temporary in nature and are not expected to be sustained
beyond the life of the project. It is anticipated that, in due course, a few actions that would need to be
supported beyond the project (e.g., legal reform or second generation PSD reforms) would be financed and
thus sustained through future donor financing. Finally, project sustainability has further been strengthened
by bringing into the project certain potential risks, such as water and energy reform and financial sector
restructuring, and by promoting effective buy-in to the project concept and design by key stakeholders,
including the local business community, Govenmment and the political establishment of the country.
- 25-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Policy and political risks - Insufficient  H        Risk is largely linked to frequent changes in
and/or inconsistent Govemment                       composition of Government, which is outside
commitment to sound divestiture and                 the control of the project. Risk will be mitigated
sector reform programs, including key               through upfront policy decisions embodied in
policy changes.                                     the Private Sector Policy Statement and in the
involvement of all key stakeholders in
implementation so that, when needed, consensus
can be quickly re-established. Bank team will
also be proactive in addressing emerging issues
in the context of the policy dialogue.
Regulatory risks - Capture of regulator by  S       Adoption of sound pro-competition policies and
special interests.                                  public information campaign. The multi-sector
approach would also distance the regulatory
agency from any specific line ministry.
Govemance risk - Presence of               S        Strengthened privatization procedures and
non-transparent practices that affect               giving the MEF sole responsibility over all
private sector response.                            divestiture actions. The legal reform
subcomponent would also help improve the
quality of settlement of disputes and support
good govemance.
Business environment and entrenched        S        Participatory approach to design and
vested interest risks - Bureaucratic                implementation of the PSD program. Action
controls and constraints on business                plan to alleviate administrative barriers already
activities hinder private sector response.          being implemented and simplification of the tax
Stakeholders unable to overcome                     code planned under the project
resistance from powerful entrenched
vested interests.
Equity scheme risk - Disrespect of        M         Management of scheme to be subcontracted to
eligibility procedures.                             reputable intemational contractor. Close IDA
monitoring of implementation of scheme.
From Components to Outputs
Implementation risk - Inadequate technical  M       A sustained effort from project preparation
capacity in implementing agencies                   through execution to build capacity in PIU and
undermines execution of programs.                   other agencies associated with the project and
ensure adequate financial and human resources
exist to manage the reforms and to ensure high
quality implementation capacity (especially in
the areas of procurement and financial
management).
Ownership and coordination risks - Lack    S        Upfront agreement on much of the program,
of clarity and consensus on decision                reflected in the Sector Policy Statement, and
making may weaken and confuse the                   consensus building through task forces.
- 26 -



program execution.
Counterpart resources - Lack of           M         In view of tight fiscal constraints, Government
counterpart funds may slow down                     counterpart fund requirements will be kept to
implementation.                                     absolute minimum. Private sector is expected to
be able to mobilize counterpart for the EFF.
Complexity risk - Design of infrastructure  S       Extensive efforts during project preparation
reform and investment climate reform                were made to involve stakeholders in project
calls for multiple coordinated changes in           design. Adequate funding has been provided so
sectors and enabling environment that              that some of the technical work can be
may exceed institutional capacity.                  outsourced to professionals. Furthermore, while
project complexity is increased by including the
EFF, financing for water and energy and
financial sector reform, likelihood of achieving
developmental objectives is enhanced by
bringing within the scope of the project issues
that would have been outside its control
Liquidation of BIGB will be delayed due    S        A donor conference will be held in an effort to
to unavailability of financing for small            find altemative sources of financing.
depositors
Overall Risk Rating                        S        Strong project implementation capacity, regular
monitoring and evaluation
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Govemment has adopted the PIM in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.
* The Borrower has established a financial management system, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association, including the development of a financial procedures manual and the appointment of
financial management staff for the Project Implementation Unit with experience acceptable to the
Association.
* The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to IDA that FMRs can be produced.
*   The project's auditor has been appointed, based on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
* A Steering Committee, acceptable to IDA, has been established and is operational.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   Preparation by the Government and review with IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each year of
the report that integrates the results of monitoring and evaluation activities in the implementation of the
project and the achievements of project objectives.
*   Undertake biannual operational audits of the project and review with IDA, no later than March 31
2004, 2006 and 2008.
* Conduct in collaboration with IDA a mid-term review of the project no later than June 30, 2005.
*   Maintenance of the PIU under MEF in the form and with functions, staffing and resources acceptable
- 27 -



tc IDA.
*   Meeting the agreed performance indicators, including carrying out environmental audits for all the
reievant PEs before completion of each transaction.
*   Disbursements for severance payments to be made to PE staff retrenched and EFF beneficiaries
conditional to submission to IDA by the Government of a detailed retrenchment plan in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA.
*   Support to the private sector under the EFF are conditional on an intemationally recruited manager
being in place. Each EFF grant shall be subject to an agreement satisfactory to IDA and in accordance
to terms and conditions set forth in the PIM.
*   Support to BIGB will be conditional on the liquidation being effective.
H. Readiness for Implementation
i 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
I 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Readiness for implementation was further enhanced by the following actions prior to Appraisal and Board
Presentation:
* Appraisal: Government has confirmed: (a) centralization of responsibility for all privatizations to the
MEF; (b) intention to liquidate BIGB; (c) launching a transparent and technically and legally
acceptable process for issuing an operating license to a cellular telephone operator; (d) decision to
adopt a multi-sector approach for economic regulation of public utilities and infrastructure; and (e)
immediate divestiture of all Government shares from the domestic airline.
*   Board: Draft Private Sector Policy Statement adopted by the Government.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Cl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
j           ' >ArA4z Y-,X,
Iradj A. Alikhani                DembaBa                           Jo    . Mcintire
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Key Performance        Data Coliection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                                      CrWical Assumptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Stimulate broad-based private  Annual GDP growth rate of  National statistics;   Social, political and
sector-led economic growth.  5% over the next five years.  ESW work (periodic)   macro-economic stability and
security.
Government and other
stakeholders continued
commitment to reform
agenda.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increase private sector    Govermment withdraws from  Government reports and     No sector policy reversal.
investment and             industrial and commercial  statistics.
competitiveness and its    activities.
participation in economic
activities.                Effective regulatory system in Bank supervision reports and  Regulatory agencies are not
place.                     sector studies             co-opted by special interests.
Improved infrastructure    Independent operational audit Sufficient investor interest to
services.                  reports.                   allow successful divestiture
and new investment.
Improved aviation safety and
increased access.
Cooperation of key
At least 400 permanent new                            stakeholders.
jobs created through
investments financed by the
project.
Ex-post ERR of equity facility
investments at least 15
percent.
National laws harmonized
with those of OHADA and
improved judiciary.
-29 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1: Building     Sector strategies/policies  Government and PIU reports  Government remains
Partnerships and Private  approved by Government and                          committed to reform.
Participation: Infrastructure implementation started.  Bank supervision reports
sector reforms are
implemented and institutional Appropriate legislation  Reports on access to
capacity to regulate private  enacted for           telecommunications and
participation strengthened.  telecommunications, civil  transport services.
Privatization program     aviation, water and energy
implemented and private   sectors.                  Project operational audit.
investments increased.
I.A. Infrastructure Reform: Revised concession contract  Updates/Profile reports  Government remains
in place (by mid-term review). providing information on  committed to reform of the
Telecommunications.                                 access to telecommunications telecommunications sector.
Competition in sector and                           and transport services.
capacity of regulator is  Two cellular licenses issued
enhanced.                 (by mid-term review);
Legal and regulatory
framework established (by
mid-term review); and
Teledensity increased (16,000
fixed lines and 20,000 cellular
customers by 2007).
* Civil aviation.        Revised civil aviation code in Quarterly program report
Aviation services     place by mid-term review.  prepared by PIU and IDA.
improved and capacity of
the Civil Aviation    Civil Aviation Authority fully
Authority enhanced.   operational by 2006.
Bissau airport facilities
improved.
Frequency of flights increased
and number of passengers
doubled.
* Water and Energy.      Bidding documents prepared                          Delays in decision-making by
Framework for utility  by mid-2003.                                       the Govemment
privatization designed
and implemented and
competition increased.
* Port.                  Port master plan prepared and                       Cooperation of key
Master plan carried out  adopted by 2005.                                  stakeholders.
Resolution of dispute over the
concession contract.
* Regulatory institution  Telecommunications by                              Lack of clear delineation of
-30 -



strengthened.          mid-term review.                                    responsibilities between
Multi-sectoral regulatory  Remaining sectors by 2005.                      policy-makers and regulator.
agency established and
operational.                                                               Delays in enacting new
legislation.
l.B. PE Divestiture and   Sale contracts signed and  PIU Reports.              Government remains
Out-sourcing: Remaining   payments received for                                committed to its privatization
industrial and commercial  divested PEs.             Supervision mission reports.  agenda.
PEs been privatized and
out-sourced in a transparent  End-of-service benefits for  Reports on stakeholders  There is no significant lag in
and competitive manner.   retrenched workers paid in  response.                private sector response to
time in accordance with                             privatization opportunities.
Government policy.
Transactions are carried out
Privatization/liquidation of 33                     according to the PIP and
PEs by June 2007:                                   transparently.
-BIGB (liquidation) by June                         Financing will be made
2003                                                available to pay small
-18 PEs by mid-termn review                         depositors.
-Remaining PEs by June
2007.                                               Government remains
Environmental Audit reports. committed to implement the
Environmental audits carried                        regulatory framework in a
out for all identified PEs                          manner to promote
before completion of each                           competition and efficiency.
transaction
-full audits for 6 PEs.
-partial audits for 4 PEs
I.C. Equity Financing     15 viable private investments Facility Management report.  Private sector willing to
Facility: The facility is  financed.                                           participate and independent
established and operational.                         Bank Supervision Reports.  fund manager recruited.
Eligibility procedures strictly
Operational audits.       adhered to.
Component 2: Improving
the Investment Climate:
Business environment
improved and cost of doing
business reduced.
2.A: Legal reform: Legal  National laws revised and  Publication of new laws and  Stakeholders and public
reform carried out and    compatible with OHADA.     regulations.              agencies are responsive to
national laws modernized.                                                      changes; they collaborate and
encourage the harnonization
process.
* Legal institutional    At least 70 percent of judges  PIU progress report.  Turnover ofjudicial staff.
capacity strengthened.  lawyers and other legal staff
have been trained.
Improvements in the       Operational audits.        Lack of means.
performance of the tribunal in
Bissau (50 percent reduction
- 31 -



in time for issuing judgment
for commercial cases) by
2007.
2.B: Business Environment  Action plans resulting from  FIAS report            Political commitment to
and Entry Points Into Key  administrative barrier and tax Feedback from investors.  re-design the way of doing
Sectors: Investment climate studies implemented                                business in an efficient way.
improved, administrative  (mid-term review).                                   Vested interests overcome.
barriers removed and taxation
reforned.
* Supply chains          Supply response and       PIU progress report and Bank Monitoring and evaluation
strengthened           competitiveness stimuiated in supervision reports.  system in place.
key sectors or entry points
(increase in domestic     Operational audits.
value-added of 50 percent) by
007.
* institutions better    Tax, customs and other inter  Surveys.               Public sector institutions
performing.           regulatory agencies interface                        prepared to change their
with the private sector more                        corporate cultures.
effectively. Four private
associations established.                            Consensus with private sector
remains.
Component 3: Supporting   Transparency of privatization  rogress report and Bank  PIU continues to have the
Implementation and Capacity tasactions is maintained.  Supervision report.     capacity to fulfill its mandate
Building: PIU operational                                                      in policy and institutional
and monitoring tools and  Timely reporting on work   Operational and fnancial  reform and project
evaluation system put in  program, financial         audits.                   implementation.
place.                    management and auditing of
accounts.
Prior and post-procurement
Procurment process is     review.
cfficient, timely and
competitive.
- 32 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                   Crical Assumptions
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
Component 1: Building    USS16.31 million         Disbursement reports     Consensus weakens.
Partnerships and Private                          Progress reports
Participation:                                    Supervision mission reports
Subcomponent l.A -       US$ 5.70 million
Infrastructure Reform
Subcomponent 1.3 - PE   US$5.61 million                                   Liquidation of BIGB not
Divestiture and                                                            halted by lack of funding of
Contracting-out                                                            small depositors.
Subcomponent 1 .C - Equity  US$5.00 Million
Facility
Project Component 2:      US$5.54 million
Improving the Investment
Climate
Subcomponent 2.A - Legal  US$3.21 million
Reform
Subcomponent 2.B - Business US$2.33 million
Environment and Entry Points
into Key Sectors
Project Component 3:     USS3.70 million                                    Counterpart funds available.
Supporting lmplementation                                                   Project complexity does not
and Capacity Building                                                       hinder implementation.
PIU capable of managing
program.
PPF Reimbursement        US$3.94 million
Contingencies            USSI.91 million
TOTAL PROJECT COST: US$31.40 million
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
The overall objective of the Government's reform program, underpinned by the 1-PRSP (October 2000), is
to create the conditions required for high per-capita GDP growth rates of at least 5 percent per-annum.
This would involve a substantial improvement in economic performance and developmental outcomes. The
Government intends to achieve this objective by maintaining prudent macroeconomic policies, and,
recognizing that growth will necessarily be private sector-led, undertaking wide-ranging structural reformns
and capacity building to stimulate private investment and output growth. The 1998/9 conflict has
considerably weakened the private sector and its ability to respond to incentives. For this reason, the
project would not only support Government's efforts to raise the share of the private sector in secondary
and tertiary activities through the sale of public assets, and the elimination/reduction of barriers that hinder
private sector activities, but also encourage private supply response through pilot initiatives.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$16.31 million
Building Partnerships and Private Participation (US$16.31 million, of which US$13.44 million is
financed by IDA)
The PE sector comprises 44 enterprises with a total number of 3,400 staff. With the exception of public
utilities, state-owned companies are generally small. Although the Government launched the first
privatization program in the late nineties, it was brought to a halt in 1998 by the conflict and thus had
limited results. Only 13 companies were sold (5), or liquidated (8). The 1998 conflict has had a major
adverse effect on the economy in general and on the PE sector in particular: (a) private operators who
managed a number of utilities left the country while the new government rescinded other contracts in the
year 2000; and (b) a significant number of PEs were either looted or damaged during the conflict.
Table 1: Infrastructure - Main Indicators
Teledensity (main lines)     7000
Country coverage             0.6%
Internet access (users)          611
Electricity
Coverage in Bissau (users)       9000
2.6% of Bissau population
Power availability               20-30%
Water coverage                   4400
13% of Bissau population
Paved roads                      750 km
Port                             250,000 tons
As a result, the sector is in distress, with a number of enterprises having, de facto, ceased activities.
Utilities also face serious problems and provide very limited services. Electricity and water have been
available only a few hours a day in Bissau for the last three years, and all industries have to operate with
generators that substantially increase their electricity costs. The airport lacks basic working safety devises,
such as radar or landing support systems. With respect to the port, sunken ships limit access to the wharfs,
- 34 -



while lack of dredging during the last decade prevents ships from docking at low tide.
Subcomponent l.A - Infrastructure Reform (US$ 5.70 million)
Main infrastructure services are in dire need of repairs. As indicated above and in table 1, they do not
provide the basic services required. Short-tertn rehabilitation needs are estimated to be US$67 million,
roughly 30 percent of GDP, and cannot be financed by the Government or the utilities. At the same time,
given: (a) the high country risk; (b) the absence of a sound regulatory framework; and (c) the overall
limitations of the judiciary, private participation in infrastructure, in terms of investment financing, is
expected to be limited during the first phase of post-conflict reconstruction. In view of the situation,
Govemment strategy aims at: (i) designing sound sectoral policies and regulatory frameworks, including
the establishment of a multi-sectoral economic regulatory agency; (ii) mobilizing emergency donor
financing; and (iii) transferring management or ownership of the utilities to private operators through lease
and concessioning agreements.
Telecommunications. The Guinea Telecommunications Company was privatized in 1989 through the sale
of 51 percent of its equity to a foreign operator. The concession agreement signed at the same time included
a twenty-year exclusivity on fixed services and on access to intemational and data transmission. Results
achieved prior to the conflict were limited and the conflict only aggravated the situation: (a) tariffs are quite
high, between US$3 and US$4 per minute for international calls; (b) teledensity stands at 0.6 percent only
(1.9 percent in Bissau and 0.03 percent outside the capital), reflecting the low increase in teledensity since
1993, which has been on average only one percent a year, and (c) the failure rate of telephone calls is quite
high because of the deterioration of the network. Finally, there are no cellular operators, and intemet
services are limited and of poor quality. As a result of the above, communications within and outside the
country are extremely difficult and hinder business development and effective government. Sector
liberalization is one of the key objectives of the country commitments under the WTO agreement on Basic
Telecommunications. This has already been reflected in the 1999 telecommunication law that calls for a
competitive sector policy after phasing out the exclusivity period. As other WTO country members,
Singapore, Bolivia, Argentina, Colombia, to name but a few, that have already reduced the length of the
exclusivity regime, the Govemment is renegotiating its agreements with the historic operator. The objective
is to gradually introduce competition: (a) through the award of two cellular licenses; (b) the phasing out of
the international exclusivity regime; and (c) the complete liberalization of value-added services including
internet services. To achieve these objectives, the Government will strengthen the existing regulatory
framework with the adoption of decrees related to interconnection, tariff regulation and rebalancing, and
universal service, while at the same time strengthening the regulatory agency (see below). The project will
support the above activities, mainly through the provision of consulting services and capacity building.
Civil aviation. During the two years following the conflict, the country was almost isolated, with only three
regional and one intemational flights a week. To address this issue, the Government has signed the
Yamassoukro agreement, calling for "open skies" between member countries and has implemented a
pro-active policy to expand services by authorizing carriers of neighboring countries from Senegal and
Cape Verde to increase the frequency of their flights. As a result, there are now seven scheduled regional
flights a week, mainly to Dakar. The next step is to overhaul the outdated civil aviation code that hinders
the development of international routes by giving traffic rights exclusivity to the national flag carrier that
was liquidated in 1998. Another national flag carrier was briefly revived in 2001, as a joint venture
between Government and private partners, but it will also be liquidated as part of the ongoing reforms. At
the same time, the Civil Aviation Authority will be strengthened so that it is able to effectively implement
the above policy.
- 35-



However, the Govemment objective of continued increased access will not be met until the basic airport
infrastructure of Bissau is rehabilitated. The runway and taxiways need to be partly resurfaced, while most
of the safety and communication equipment will have to be replaced. As a first step, the Govemment has
signed an agreement with ASECNA (Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne), to transfer
traffic and safety management responsibilities. This agreement will be effective once the Government
secures the financial resources (US$9 million) to modemize the equipment. The Govenmment is in contact
with key donors (France, EU) to mobilize the required resources. In addition, once the safety concerns are
addressed and traffic increases, the Government intends to privatize airport management. The project will
support the revision of the civil aviation code, the strengthening of the Civil Aviation Authority and
contribute to critical investments, such as the repair of radar and other communication equipment
Water and Energy. Despite short-term rehabilitation financed by BOAD, the sector still faces a difficult
situation. Electricity is available only a few hours a day to a limited number of consumers. Because of the
lack of energy for pumping, water is also scarce. In addition, because of the absence of purification, water
quality represents a major health hazard. An IDA project is under preparation to finance sector
rehabilitation, the adoption of a new sectoral regulatory framework and the privatization of Electricity and
Water of Guinea Bissau EAGB (EAGB), the state-owned utility. However, this project has suffered from
a series of delays in its preparation. in order to ensure overall consistency and to start addressing
short-term emergency maintenance and rehabilitation requirements prior to the finalization of the Water and
Energy project, the PSRDP will provide in 2002 and the first half of 2003 support for critical investments,
update the financial and other transaction-related models, and support the implementation of the regulatory
framework. The PPF for the aforementioned project will also be refinanced to free up US$1.95 million
used for past project preparation.
Port. As with the other utilities, the port faces many challenges: (a) sunken ships limit access to the berth;
(b) handling equipment and cranes are missing; and (c) due to the lack of dredging of the access channel
and of the port itself, large vessels cannot dock. In addition, poor internal and customs procedures in the
port area create delays and contribute to revenue losses. Finally, the institutional arrangements which result
in overlapping functions between the Port and the Ministry of Transport contribute to a dilution of
responsibility, and thus weak management Because of these problems, it is estimated that almost half of
the cargo destined to Guinea-Bissau is diverted to neighboring countries such as Gambia or Senegal, which
not only reduces Govemment revenues, but also contributes to increased costs and delays of traded goods.
Emergency rehabilitation costs are in the range of US$12 million. The Govemment is committed to
modemizing port operations through private investment and management. However, a number of prior
actions are required before such reforns are possible; these actions will be financed by the project.
Following the conflict, the Govemment suspended the concession with the existing operator due
disagreement with the operator over performance. This dispute is now before the courts and no IDA
support to the transaction or to the port will be provided until the case is resolved. In addition, dredging and
other specific recurrent costs linked to the location of the port will have to be carefully reviewed in order to
assess the port's competitiveness and altematives to the investments considered. The project will finance a
master plan study to review the above issues and also support the creation of a monitoring system aimed at
improving performance of customs and port operations. Further customs reform will also be supported and
is discussed under the investment climate component described below.
Multi-Sectoral Regulatory Agency. In order to implement the above reforms, strong regulatory
arrangements are required to avoid: (a) a recurrence of past Government interference; (b) protect the
interests of consumers; and (c) reassure investors. As part of the revised 1999 telecommunications law, the
Govemment created an autonomous regulatory agency for the sector the Communication Institute of
- 36-



Guinea-Bissau (ICGB), that now leads the effort to: (a) complete the regulatory framework overhaul; (b)
renegotiate the concessioning agreement; and (c) launch the call for bids for the award of cellular licenses.
However, given Guinea-Bissau's severe budget constraints and limited human capacity, a multiplication of
sectoral agencies is neither financiaUy efficient nor sustainable. Therefore, the' Government has decided to
create a multi-sectoral regulatory agency. The Govemment intends to ensure that the agency remains small
and efficiently run, and that its functions do not overlap with those of ministries. The proposed approach is
to gradually expand the scope of ICGB to cover other sectors and to limit its role to economic regulation.
As part of the project, a detailed assessment will be completed to: (i) provide a sound design for the agency;
(ii) prepare a business plan together with ethical and other required guidelines; (iii) provide training and
twinning arrangements as required; and (iv) finance frequency monitoring and management equipment
Subcomponent l.B - Divestiture and outsourcing (US$5.61 million)
Divestiture. As indicated above, apart from the utilities, public enterprises are generally small. Most of
them face serious difficulties either because they have been adversely affected by the conflict or because of
past mismanagement. A preliminary assessment completed by the Government privatization agency has
classified PEs in the following categories:
* four companies such as the radio and television are Government agencies with limited commercial
activities and will not be privatized;
* fourteen PE's have been adversely affected by the conflict and will be liquidated;
*   six companies are effectively not operating and will be divested through the sale of assets;
*   Out of the remaining 13 enterprises: (a) two, the largest hotels of Bissau, will be privatized through
management contracts; (b) three, created in partnership with other Governments, will be sold once the
partners' approval has been obtained, and (c) the remaining eight will be divested on the basis of an
action plan to be developed during project implementation.
Most of the companies to be divested are no longer going concerns. The divestiture process will therefore
involve: (a) auctioning assets; (b) breaking-up companies with the view to optimizing the use of remaining
assets; and (c) selling the smallest entities to workers as compensation for salary arrears and other
retrenchment dues. Although proceeds from privatizations will be limited, the sale of some companies such
as the 49 percent stake held by the Government in the telecommunications company will yield revenues.
Such revenues wili be kept in a separate account and used to finance: (i) part of the retrenchment costs; and
(ii) arrears to the pension system. The project will finance consulting services to implement the divestiture
strategy. Divested firms will also be eligible to receive funding from the EFF described in subcomponent
I .C.
Liquidation of BIGB. The Government has decided to liquidate BIGB (Banco Internacional da
Guinea-Bissau), which is bankrupt, as it is both illiquid and insolvent as provided for under the UEMOA
banking legislation (article 62 of the Banking Law).The Banking Legislation permits the UEMOA Banking
Commission to revoke a banking licence and to appoint a liquidator for a bank which does not meet the
licensing requirements. The resolution strategy for BIGB aims at providing a rapid and definitive solution
to the problems of the institution, reducing its effect on banking sector confidence as well as its social
impact. Restructuring the bank is not a viable option as it could cost the Government about eight times
more than its liquidation. The Government has developed a strategy for BIGB's liquidation given its
potential social impact. It intends to repay small depositors (98 percent of depositors) and compensate the
staff that will be laid off. At the same time, mechanisms for rapid loan and asset recovery will be put in
place to reduce the cost for the Government. Aggressive loan recovery will reduce the moral hazard of the
operation to the Government The Government recognizes that the level of banking services outside Bissau
- 37 -



are quite limited and intends to take measures to attract the entry of new commercial banks, especially
those already established in UEMOA. The proposed strategy reduces moral hazard as it aims to vigorously
purse debtors, while reducing the social costs of the measure. Once this happens, its is expected that these
banks would begin to provide financial services outside Bissau, possibly using BIGB's physical
infrastructure which has not been providing actual banking services since 1997. The project would provide
financing for: (a) severance payments for BIGB's staff; and (b) technical assistance for asset recovery and
for liquidation. A detailed action plan for liquidation of BIGB is available in the project file.
Out-sourcing public services. The Government is also committed to implementing a pilot initiative with a
view to reducing the scope of the civil service. To prepare for this, organizational charts have been
prepared that: (i) clarify the functions and organization of the various ministries; and (ii) define the staffing
required to fulfill their missions. In addition, the Government has decided that specific activities such as
cleaning-up and maintaining government buildings or surveillance are not Government functions, and will
be contracted-out. Activities to be contracted-out will be listed in the new civil service law being prepared.
Staff carrying out these activities will have to leave the administration and will be encouraged to create or
join small enterprises to which service contracts will be awarded. In order to minimnize social implications
of such actions and maintain employment, retrenchment dues will be paid over a period of time to the
workers.  The project will provide consulting services to implement the above pilot program. The
consulting services will be used to: (a) support the creation of small enterprises; (b) design the contracts
with a special focus on the establishment of sound mechanisms that will secure government payment of
such services; and (c) implement transparent systems for awarding the contracts.
Retrenchment. The Government is aware that the overall divestiture program may have important social
implications. However, given the situation of the PE sector, a significant number of staff are not paid
regularly and salary arrears are quite large. The retrenchment program will provide resources to existing
unpaid workers. The Govemment has recently completed an assessment of the arrears situation, which
concluded that:
* 20 enterprises have accumulated salary arrears in an amount equivalent to US$1.8 million;
* arrears due to INPS, the pension system, stands at US$2 million; and
* the number of workers to be laid-off is estimated to be 1,000, one third of the PE workers with a cost
of US$2 million.
Given the amounts involved, the Govemment has already contacted the European Community and other
donors to assist in financing the arrears. The project will finance the direct retrenchment costs and it is
expected that other donors would finance the arrears to the staff and to the pension system. The project will
also provide consulting services to implement the retrenchment, with the view to ensure transparency and
reduce the social implications by: (a) designing the policy so that it will encourage workers to take over
some assets through debt equity swaps; and (b) providing support to the emerging small companies.
Subcomponent 1. C - Equity Financing Facility (US$5.0 million)
This project includes equity finance to the private sector in a post-conflict country such as Guinea-Bissau.
There is general agreement that private investment is urgently needed, but that major barriers - destruction
of assets, weakness of the banking sector, increased country risk - block that investment. Stakeholders have
argued that unless investment financing is addressed more directly, the actual supply response might be less
than needed, and that post-conflict countries will be unable to recover. Because of the destruction of
capital during conflicts and subsequent market failures related to the financial sector and country risk,
exceptional efforts are warranted to re-start post conflict economies.
- 38 -



The rehabilitation of public infrastructure is vital in post-conflict countries and is understood to demand
public finance, including from concessional sources. However, rehabilitating private enterprise presents a
difficult economic problem, as it woula not be efficient to restore damaged enterprises across the board. A
program to deal with this problem based on economic project selection and new investment -- rather than
restoring what was there before the conflict -- could therefore make a significant contribution to short and
medium-term growth. The elements of the program would not be radically different from many
donor-financed credit lines. The main difference is in the financing terms, which would be grants.
The EFF supported by the project is based on: (i) post-divestiture support for public enterprises undergoing
privatization/liquidation or private SME's; (ii) support for enterprises that attract incremental private
investment; and (iii) private investors' selection of viable companies. The first principle would- avoid
subsidizing unviable public enterprises. The second ensures that the program is based on sound principles,
as private firms investing their own money would select the enterprises receiving support. The third would
make sure that enterprises receiving support would operate on private business principles, not on guidance
from public authorities.
The program has been designed to avoid moral hazard and uneconomic selection, principles that will be
embodied in a procedures manual. This would be done by: (i) providing support only at the time of transfer
of the enterprise into private hands; (ii) giving support only to match private investment into .the enterprise
on a 50:50 basis; and (iii) designing a disbursement mechanism which will prevent the new owner from
using the resources for other than the intended purpose. The following additional guiding principles would
also apply:
*   EFF would last a maximum of four years,
*   Matching subsidy would be subject to a ceiling of around US$200,000;
*   Private investors would provide their equity first;
* Investors would provide evidence of expenditure according to the appraised investment plan;
*   Up-front careful credit analysis of the investor plan and investment plan would be made by the
program manager;
*   Full compliance with environmental guidelines;
* Investment project should be economically and financially viable, as well as technically feasible;
minimum economic and financial rate of return should be at least 15 percent;
*   Only existing firms (privatized PE's and private firms damaged by war) will be eligible. No greenfield
investment will be funded;
* Program managed independently by an expert (venture capitalist profile) recruited internationally; and
*   Investor would provide regular and detailed information for evaluating the program.
The rationale for experimenting with the approach in Guinea-Bissau is the following: (i) the Government
and the private sector have requested such exceptional assistance; (ii) even though the country is
post-conflict, the political and civil situation has stabilized; (iii) the proposed project includes other
components, including information and logistics, privatization, measures to improve the investment climate
and regulatory framework, that would improve the likelihood of success of the investments; (iv) the trade
regime is liberalized eliminating distortions in investment incentives; and (v) the country is small and a
meaningful experiment can be undertaken at reasonable cost. IDA financing would cover project
management, and contributions to an estimated 15 or so private investments. To increase the likelihood of
success, training funds would be also made available under the scheme. These funds would be provided on
a cost-sharing basis (50:50 for equity and 90:10 for training) and would help release management
constraints to ensure that the return on investments is maximized.
- 39 -



Project Component 2 - US$5.54 million
Improving the Investment Climate (US$5.54 million, of which US$3.6 million isfinanced by IDA)
Subcomponent 2.A - Legal Reform (US$3.21 million)
Stakeholders recognize that legal reform is a long-term process, and that it can take more than a decade
before results in terms of empowering the poor through better access to efficient judicial services are
noticeable. The project would finance initial steps towards that goal by focusing mainly on improving the
legal environment of enterprises.
Between 1997 when it joined UEMOA, until 2000, Guinea-Bissau did not achieve much progress in
modernizing business laws and harmnonizing existing laws with OHADA. In 2000, with the support
provided under the PPF of the present project and French aid, important initial steps were taken, and
OHADA framework laws were translated into Portuguese and disseminated. About two thirds of this work
has been completed and the remaining laws will be translated and disseminated during 2002. As a late
starter, Guinea-Bissau benefits from lessons learnt elsewhere, notably in Mali and Senegal, where fairly
successful judicial reform exercises were undertaken. The subcomponent will focus on compilation,
harmonization and dissemination of laws and associated capacity building. In addition, related reforms will
also be supported, including the computerization of commercial registries; improved records management;
provision of reference material; publication of laws, including their posting on web sites; establishment of
an arbitration mechanism; a pilot initiative at the level of the tribunal of Bissau to help improve its
performance and minor repairs to tribunals. Expected outcomes at the end of the project include national
laws that are fully harmonized and compatible with OHADA, improved performance of the courts,
especially the tribunal of Bissau (in terms of delays and quality of judgments) and improved access of the
civil society to judicial rulings.
Subcomponent 2.B - Business Environment and Entry Points into Key Sectors (US$2.33 million)
This subcomponent is composed of a cluster of activities , which contribute to improving the business
environment in general and tackle sector issues in particular. To ensure maximum impact and full
stakeholder ownership, a participatory approach has been built into every major activity. The first set of
actions concern the general business environment and focus on improving the interface between the private
and public sector and reducing the cost of doing business. FIAS is expected to contribute substantially to
the formulation of the reformns in these areas. Preliminary work has already been initiated under the PPF
and has focused on alleviating administrative barriers. An action plan has been developed and will be
implemented during the first half of the project implementation period. Another update of this study is
programmed prior to mid-term review, which would help set the agenda in this area for the remainder of the
project. In addition, the project will finance a detailed study of the tax system, a baseline survey of the cost
of doing business, to be updated every two years, as well as an institutional assessment of investment
promotion arrangements prior to mid-term review. The reform of tax and customs is likely to be a major
outcome of this work and the project includes financing for specific studies and capacity building in this
area.
The next set of activities aim to stimulate supply response from six key sectors identified by stakeholders,
namely fishing, cashew nuts, groundnuts and rice, as well as tourism, fruits and vegetables, palm oil and
cotton. Given limited absorptive capacity and timing and sequencing consideration, the work on the first
four products/sectors will be initiated between 2002 and completed by 2005. The project will cover
remaining products/sectors between 2004 and 2007. Given that these sectors have already been studied
-40 -



extensively, a similar approach will be followed for each sector: (a) undertake a short analytical survey of
recent available studies; (b) update as required; (c) present results in a stakeholder workshop following
which an action-plan is adopted; and (d) implement reforms and related capacity building. Lessons learnt
under the first phase of these activities will be incorporated in the aforementioned second phase. Finally,
recognizing that certain crosscutting issues may be identified, the project also provides for the financing of
studies of such issues (e.g., warehouse receipt system) and would support the implementation of
recommendations of such studies.
The final set of actions relate to the establishment of a high-level formal, initially bi-annual consultative
mechanism between the private and the public sectors, to debate key issues that have not been addressed
elsewhere and to facilitate their resolution. The project would fund three such forums. An important
related activity involves capacity building in private representative associations. The cbamber of commerce
is currently being restructured and is expected to become an apex organization under which three sector
chambers (trade, agriculture and industry) will operate. The project would support assistance to help these
four associations develop operational business plans. The project would finance service contracts with
each of these associations, which would be disbursed on quarterly basis on the basis of the associations
achieving quantifiable monitoring indicators.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.70 million
Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building (US$3.70 million, of which US$3.5 million is
financed by IDA))
The activities described above are fairly complex, and strong implementation capacity is needed to ensure
high quality implementation and that project objectives are met. Therefore, over 15 percent of the Credit
(excluding PPF refinance) is allocated to this component. The Credit will thus finance a team of high
caliber local professionals consisting of a project coordinator, and the five team leaders responsible for
managing the following subcomponents: (i) infrastructure reform; (ii) privatization, outsourcing of public
services and retrenchment; (iii) legal reform; (iv) business environment; and (v) project management. To
encourage efficiency, up to 25 percent of the compensation for each team leader will be based on achieving
annual output targets related to key aspects of project implementation. The manager of the EFF will be
recruited intemationally and will be supported by a local financial analyst. Three other full-time
professionals, an accountant, a procurement specialist and a project assistant, as well as support staff will
assist the five-team leaders. Implementation will be further strengthened by short-term intemational and
local consultants (about 24 person-months each). In addition to the salary of these short- and long-term
project staff, the component will finance operating costs, goods, reference material and supplies, as well as
training for both project staff and other stakeholders participating in various steering team (no top-up or
other forms of gratuities will be paid to civil servants). This unit will also be responsible for ensuring
adequate monitoring and evaluation of various components, preparing quarterly progress reports, and
facilitating the mid-term review and orderly closing of the project. In addition to the above, the Credit will
also refinance US$ 1.99 million of PPF resources used to prepare the project.
-41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US Smillion  US $million   US Smillion
1. Building Partnerships and Private Participation         8.12          8.19         16.31
2. Improving the Investment Climate                         1.34         4.20          5.54
3. Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building         2.73          0.97          3.70
Reimbursement of PPFs                                    2.00          1.94          3.94
Total Baseline Cost                                        14.19        15.30         29.49
Physical Contingencies                                    0.13          0.31          0.44
Price Contingencies                                       0.69          0.78          1.47
Total Project Costs1              15.01        16.39         31.40
Total Financing Required               15.01        16.39         31.40
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US Smillion   US $million
Works                                                        0.39           0.26         0.65
Goods                                                        0.27           2.46         2.73
Services                                                     2.97           7.86         10.83
Training                                                     1.92           1.45          3.37
Severance Pay                                                2.92           0.00         2.92
Equity Scheme                                                2.15           2.14         4.29
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                  2.39           0.28         2.67
PPF Reflnance                                                2.00           1.94         3.94
Total Project Costs      15.01          16.39        31.40
Total Financing Required      15.01          16.39        31.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total projed cost, net oftaxes, is 31.4 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 82.8% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-42 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Base Case Results. The net present value of the project is estimated at about US$5.2 million for a 12
percent discount rate and its internal economic rate of return is estimated at 19.6 percent In the case of
the EFF, the eligibility criteria call for minimum incremental rate of return of 15 percent, even though the
ex-post ERR is expected to be higher. The project will not directly result in net job creation since most of
the companies included in the divestiture subcomponent will be liquidated. On a gross basis, new private
sector jobs will be created through improvements in the investment climate, EFF and outsourcing
subcomponents. However, the retrenchment program would have an estimated ERR of around 25.6
percent. Finally, the positive impact on the fiscal position estimated at about $1.2 million results mainly
from increased direct and indirect corporate taxes;, due to the small size of the state-owned companies,
proceeds from privatization and savings on subsidies are expected to be limited. Also, the direct and
immediate objective of the project is not the privatization of the main utilities and infrastructure companies
but rather the strengthening of a multi-sectoral regulatory agency.
Main Assumptions:
1. Stable macroeconomic environment as projected in the I-PRSP with real GDP growth averaging 5
percent per annum.
2. It has also been assumed that: (a) financial costs and benefits are equal to economic cost and benefits.
3. The support provided would increase efficiency of the supported recipients and would yield an increase
in economic output at a multiple of two times the amount of support
4. The project is mainly dealing with the liquidation of small public enterprises that had defacto ceased all
activities during or even after the war. They were therefore not receiving subsidies.
5. Discount rate used is 12 percent.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Switching values of critical items: Three sensitivity tests were carried out: (a) the first test assumed a 75
percent reduction in gains in efficiency and output. The NPV was reduced to about US$0.2 million and the
ERR was 15.6 percent; (b) the second test assumed a 50 percent reduction in gains in efficiency and
output, the NPV increased to US$24.9 million while the ERR jumped to 14.2 percent; (c) the third test
assumed an elongated disbursement period from five to seven years for the two subcomponents, private
investment promotion and improved investment climate, while keeping the retrenchment program
unchanged; the NPV slightly decreased to US$5.1 million while the ERR also slightly dropped to 19.4
percent. These results established the fact that the project is robust.
Economic Analysis of Overall Project
Recent Macro-economic Developments
Following a weak economic performance and worsening of the poverty situation throughout the 1980s and
beginning of the 90s, Guinea-Bissau adopted, in 1995, a macro economic and structural reform program
- 43 -



with the support of a three years enhanced structural adjustment facility (ESAF). As a result, GDP grew at
an average rate of 3.65 percent over the period covered by the ESAF. Inflation, although averaging 48
percent over the period, started to decline especially after the country joined the UEMOA in May 1997.
The private sector also began to play a more active role in the economy.
The implementation of the economic reforms halted, with the beginning of the conflict in mid-1998.
Consequently, GDP declined by 28 percent in 1998. The main infrastructures and utilities services were
severely disrupted by the conflict; numerous small companies as well as PEs which were looted or
damaged PEs ceased activities while, in the private sector, several foreign investors left the country. The
Government, with the support of a US$2 million IMF's post-conflict emergency assistance, adopted an
economic reconstruction and rehabilitation progran which was implemented in a satisfactory manner. In
2000, the Government presented an I-PRSP with an accent on the development of the private sector as an
engine of economic growth. The implementation of necessary structural and sectoral reforms and the
strategy to reach growth and poverty reduction objectives, as described in a full-fledged PRSP will be
supported by the Bank.
Economic analysis of the Overall project
Methodology. The economic analysis of this type of private sector rehabilitation and development project
presents special difficulties, particularly when there is an indirect relationship between the project's actions
and the stream of benefits. Nevertheless, using a "with" and "without" project framework and recognizing
that not all economic costs and benefits are measurable in monetary terms, we calculated the Net Present
Value (NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The evaluation was done in terms of economic cash
flow analysis which was developed from the financial cash flow of the project.
Most of the expected benefits would occur in the medium-term since the project is expected to facilitate
essentially institutional development in both public and private sectors. The identified indirect benefits were
quantified to obtain their monetary values because no direct cost recovery mechanisms have been built into
the project. Monetary values input to the indirect benefits represent measurable gains from expected
improved private investment climate and increased economic efficiency in the utilities sector as a result of
the restructuring assistance and the introduction of a better regulatory framework.
The cost-benefit analysis was done for three main components: (a) private investment promotion, which
includes the subcomponents infrastructure reform, divestiture and the outsourcing of public services; (b)
improving the investment climate through a EFF to the private sector, legal reform and improved business
environment; and (c) the retrenchment program.
Assumptions. It has been assumed that:
*   Government is committed to strengthen the regulatory framework in order to efficiently undertake the
necessary reforms in the infrastructure and utilities sector and to implement the divestiture program.
*   Sound macroeconomic management leading to an estimated 5 percent growth in GDP per annum
(Paragraph 27, Interim National Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Guinea- Bissau, September 2000).
* Additional private national and foreign capital will be available for the rehabilitation of equipment,
technology and for training.
Projects costs. Total project costs have been estimated at US$29.2 million to finance the components
-44 -



identified above during the five-year period 2002-2007. Government's contribution is estimated at 31
percent of total project costs. A 9 percent contingency fund has also been included. Price contingencies are
usually for the unexpected changes in the general price level of capital goods and/or project-specific real
cost increases. The real cost increases could be as a result of unforeseen difficulties and expenditures or
increase in the scope of the project.
Table 1: Project Cost by Component
(USS mllnion)
Project Component                   Total
1. Private Participation Promotion                16.3
2. Improving Investment Climate                     5.6
3. Project Management                               3.7
Total Baseline Costs                               25.6
PPF Reimbursement                                   3.9
Contingencies                                       1.9
Total Project Cost                                 31.4
Project Benefits
The main economic benefits as well as the monitoring tools are presented below:
Nature of Beneflts/Indicators                       Monitoring Tools
Improved environment / Reduction of costs of doing business   Periodic survey of the cost of doing
business /administrative barriers
Acceleration of increase in outputs in the small privatized companies and Base case / end of project output
improvement of services in the two biggest hotels.            levels. Survey on improvement of
customer service and occupation
rate for the two hotels.
Benefits from the newly created jobs in the SMEs sector following the  Tracer study for successful SMEs
retrenchment program (and from contracting-out public services)  and revenues generated.
Increased productivity and efficiency of enterprises covered by the pilot  Declared dividend per annum; level
mechanism for equity finance.                                 of equity at the beginning/end of
project.
As noted earlier, quantifying these benefits pose the usual problems encountered in all project- evaluations.
Nevertheless, using the method presented earlier, we obtain the estimated of the present value economic
benefits:
-45-



Table 2: Projected Net Economic Beneflts 2002
-2016 (USS million)
Net Economic Benefits                  Total (a)
Gains in Efficiency /Enabling environment                 12.9
Gains in Output & Employment Income                       6.1
Retrenchment Program                                      4.2
Total                                                     23.2
(a) Present value
Target groups
* Retrenched employees would benefit from the project's resources especially after considerable salary
arrears.
* Employees welfare in the privatized enterprises is expected to increase. This would be achieved either
through employee share purchase plans and new labor contracts, that normally accompany
privatization or through expected gains from increases in the average wage bill due to private enterprise
productivity performance.
*   The private sector, including both lowal and foreign investors, whose investment opportunities have
been inhibited due to unfavorable business environment resulting from the conflict.
*   Small, medium and micro enterprises would benefit from the project in formn of conducive business
environment and increased number of participants from the liquidated or restructured enterprises.
Base case results and sensitivity analysis
Base case results. The net present value of the project is estimated at about US$5.2 million for a 12
percent discount rate, and its internal economic rate of return is estimated at 19.6 percent.
Table 3: Base Case Results
IRR (%)                 NPV (US$ million)
Overall Project                         19.6                         5.2
Gains in Efficiency/Enabling            13.7                         1.1
Environment
Gains in Output & Employment            19.3                         1.9
Income
Retrenchment Program                    25.6                         2.2
Sensitivity analysis
The first sensitivity analysis was done by elongating the disbursement over a period of 7 years for the two
components: "private investment promotion" and "improving the investment climate", the effect on the
- 46 -



project was that the NPV was slightly reduced from US$5.2 million to US$5.1 million and the ERR from
19.6 to 19.4 percent.
The second test assumed a 75 percent reduction in gains in efficiency and output. The NPV significantly
decreased but remained positive at about US$0.2 million while the ERR decreased to 15.6 percent. By
modifying the reduction in gains in efficiency and output from 75 percent to 50 percent, the NPV increases
to US$14.2 million with an ERR of 24.9 percent Thus, although the outcomes are sensitive to the effects
of modifying this variable, all the outcomes presented positive NPVs indicating the robustness of the
results.
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis
Summary
Scenario       Sensitivity   Cases         Variable       NPV (USS      ERR        Fiscal
Performed                    Amount         million)     (percent)  Impact
Overall Project
Delayed Project              (a) Base       (a) Regular    5.2          19.6       1.2
Implementation                              Disbursement
Elongated     (b) Altemate   (b) Slow       5.1           19.4       1.1
Disbursement                 Disbursement
____ ____ ___ Period
Change in      Reduction in  (c) Altemate  (c) 75%         0.2          15.6       0.9
Diversion      gains in
Assumption     efficiency and
____ ____ ____ output
(d) Altemate  (d) 50%        14.2          24.9       1.8
Reduction
Finally, the elongated period of disbursement does not have a significant impact on the positive fiscal
impact which only dropped from 1.2 to US$1.1 million. This impact, which mainly result from increased
direct and indirect corporate taxes, naturally improves with the gains in efficiency and output.
III - Staff Retrenchment Program Economic Analysis
Introduction
Government has agreed to pursue its privatization program which was halted during the 1998/1999 civil
war. Out of the 44 PEs, 14 will be liquidated, 6 will be divested through sale of assets, and 13 wili be
divested through management contract, for the two biggest hotels, and on the basis of an action-plan to be
developed. Given the number of PEs to be restructured or liquidated and the accompanying layoffs of an
estimated 1,000 workers, representing about 30 percent of the labor force in the PE sector, a retrenchment
program and a set of accompanying social measures will be implemented to mitigate the social implications
of the program.
Labor Market and Characteristics of Laid-off employees
In order to efficiently implement the retrenchment program and to facilitate the re-integration into the
productive economy, a detailed study has been carried out to identify the characteristics of the labor force
-47 -



for each PE to be restructured or liquidated. A special accent was put on their qualifications, years of
experience and age.
Labor situation in Guinea-Bissau. The labor force, which is estimated to grow at an annual rate of 2.3
percent , accounts for about 40 percent of the total population of 1.3 million. 82 percent of that labor force
is employed in the agriculture sector. The adult illiteracy rate is about 66 percent reflecting the poor
quality of the educational system. Women, who represent 40 percent of the labor force, and youth are not
adequately integrated into the formal sector. The PEs sector remains an important employer with an
estimated 3,400 workers.
Key characteristics of employees. The study covered all the 44 PEs. The biggest are: EAGB,
Guinea-Telecom, APGB (Port), ENAG (Airport), Rodofluvial (Transport), Hotel du 24 Septembre and
Bissau Hotel. The remaining PEs are of small size involved in various sectors of the economy, comprising
all those to be affected by the retrenchment program. The average age of the workers is 48 with, on
average, 14 years of experience. About four percent can be classified as executives, ten percent as middle
management and 86 percent are employees among which, 45 percent received a professional training.
Proposed Retrenchment Program
The project will only finance the direct retrenchment costs, while other donors would finance the arrears to
the staff and to the pension system. The project will also provide consulting services to ensure transparency
and to reduce the social implications by: (a) designing the policy in a way to encourage workers to
take-over some assets through debt equity swaps, and (b) providing support to the emerging SMEs.
Economic Analysis
Methodology. The economic costs and benefits of the program are compared as follows: (a) costs cover
both severance payment and redeployment costs; and (b) benefits include the additional contribution to the
economy that the workers will be able to make by working where there is an effective demand for their
services, or by developing their own economic activities. Severance payments have been calculated on the
basis of the collective bargaining agreements stipulated in the social plan which is to be applied to each
sector.
Costs. The costs of the program are given by the sum of the following components:
* Severance payment (SP)
* Early retirement payments (ER)
* Outplacement costs to assist job seekers (OC)
* Support to SMEs (SM)
* Costs of administering the program (PC)
The marginal productivity value of the retrenched employees in privatized enterprises has not been
included because the labor reduction, in usually overstaffed companies, does not affect remaining personnel
ability to carry out current production levels. The marginal productivity value of the retrenched employees
is equal to zero. SP and ER are considered as economic costs because Government has to borrow to finance
them. Instead they would have been considered as income-efficient transfers to the retrenched employees
and thus not included in the cost of public funds. OC, SM and PC have been included because they have an
economic component in each of them that have altemative use of resources.
-48 -



Benefits. The benefits of redundancy reduction in each year are given by the:
*   Marginal productivity of laid-offemployees elsewhere in the economy (PE)
*   Marginal revenues of laid-off employees creating their new enterprises (PSM)
*   Marginal productivity value of the forgone labor costs of privatized enterprises (LCW)
The marginal productivity value of the retrenched employees (PE) and (PSM) is the product of: (i)
probability of the employee's engagement in another activity, which depends on the effectiveness of the
training and assistance that the employees receives, by (ii) the net income produced by such activity. The
activity could be new employment through replacement or self-employed activities. The marginal
productivity value of the foregone labor cost of privatized enterprises (LCW) represents the opportunity
cost of the outlays that will be saved by the program. These savings in labor costs can be used in
investments in other segments of the economy. In the cost-benefit analysis, they have been considered to be
equivalent to foregone labor cost. However, a non-productivity analysis indicator has been factored-in to
reflect social factors that have reduced the level of cost savings to society. In the overall economic analysis
of the project, the savings in labor costs have been translated in terms of reduction in the long-rn marginal
factor costs. This cost reduction is expected to increase the privatized enterprises competitiveness which
would explain the improvement in the private sector contributions to economic growth.
Assumptions. The model identifies the employees that are likely to develop their own project and the ones
that are likely to seek out new jobs (estimated at 75 and 25 percent respectively). These numbers are
derived from the results of the pilot operation which analyzed the case of 300 employees in Togo. The
assumption is that there are no significant differences in the characteristics of the labor market in
Guinea-Bissau. It is also assumed that the probability of finding a job is 30 percent. However, with the
impact of the outplacement program, the probability of finding new jobs could go up to 38 percent. It is
also assumed that the salary reduction would be about 30 percent  as employees move to the
private/informal sector. This number has been obtained as an estimate from a rapid analysis of the formal
private sector salary in Niger where the reduction rate was found to be 50 percent. Finally the probability
of developing a privately-owned business successfully has been estimated at about 50 percent.
Results. The net present value (NPV) of the retrenchment program is estimated at US$2.2 million for a 12
percent discount rate while the ERR is estimated at 25.6 percent under the base case. This rate is sensitive
to the revenues expected from self-owned businesses. If revenues from SMEs are assumed to be 50 percent
less than expected, the estimated rate of return would be reduced to 22.1 percent. If the probability of
successfully developing the established enterprises increases to 70 percent, the ERR would increase to 28.2
percent. On the other hand, if the probability of finding jobs is increased to 38 percent, the estimated rate of
return of the program would also increase slightly to 25.7 percent. For that reason, the program will put a
special accent on the development of new entrepreneurs.
These results show that the retrenchment program has a social value even under the most pessimistic
assumptions. The social value does not come from the fact that the employees of privatized or liquidated
enterprises are retrenched, but rather on the fact that the retrenched employees, provided they receive better
training and business support services, can be better used in other sectors of the economy. Moreover, it also
shows that scarce public resources are better utilized if the beneficiaries are targeted.
-49-



In addition, an analysis of the impact of the program for the sectors involved has been carried out and is
included in the overall economic analysis of the project Given the state of the public enterprise sector and
the impediments to the development of the private sector as the result of the conflict, it is reasonable to
expect that the project would have significant impact on the sectors involved.
Cost - Benefit Analysis: OveraU
Project
COSTS                                                    BENEFITS
Gw       m             PI-I              Ip1rdm              R       *      o
Year Pft*       C@    C@iiilb9wUn               Pnz"zz         _       mJb               e             l            Not Cah Flow
1       (2,000.0)           (1,000.0)                             . _   -                       80                     (2,920)
2       (4,000.0)           (2,000.0)    _                   _                                 322                     (5,678)
3       (6,500.0)           (2,500.0)                 853                 409                  563                     (7,175)
4       (4,000.0)           (2,000.0)               2,560               1,227                  724                     (1,489)
5       (1,133.0)           (1,617.0)               5,121   2_250                              804                      5,425
6           _        _                              6,828               2,863                  804                     10,495
7                                                   5,974               2,863                  804                      9,642
8                                                   3,414               1,841                  804                      6,059
9     ________                                        853                 818                  804                      2,476
10                                                       -                 -                   804                         804
11                                                                                             804                         804
12                                                                                             804                         804
13                                                                                              804                        804
14                                                                                              804                        804
15                                                                                              804                        804
(17,633)              (9,117)             25,605              12,271               10,532    NPV @12%            5.262
________  IRR      19.6%
The benefits of the components "private investment promotion" (efficiency, enabling environment) and "improving the investment climate" (gains in
output, employment) have been calculated using a "with " and "without" fiwmeworb We adopted such a framework since we consider that the only
sub-component that is really "measurable output-generating" is the equity finance, which would last a maximum of 4 years and is designed as a
matching grant. This explains why after the 10th year, the benefits are negligible.
Assumptions:
1. Stable macroeconomics environment as assumed in the l-PRSP with real GDP growth averaging S percent.
2. Additional capital investments finom the private sector will be available for mehabilitation of equipment, new technology and training.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Prolect Components by Fiscal Year - Base Costs
(US$ 00o)
Base Cost
Year 1    Year 2    Yer 3     Year 4     Year 5   Year 6    Total
1. Building Partnerships and Private
Participation                        1,700.0   4,825.0   5,300.0    3,500.0    985.0            16,310.0
1.A Infrastructure Reform           560.0    1,755.0   1,800.0   1,025.0    555.0             5,695.0
1.B Divestiture and Out-sourcing    940.0    1,870.0   1,700.0   1,075.0     30.0             5,615.0
1.C Equity Financing FacliHty       200.0    1,200.0   1,800.0   1,400.0    400.0             5,000.0
2. Improving the Investment Climate  1,009.0    1,619.0   1,384.0    889.0     459.0    215.0    5,545.0
2.A Legal Reform                    562.0    1,137.0    842.0     322.0     262.0     90.0    3,215.0
2.B Business Environment and Entry
Points into Key Sectors                447.0     482.0     512.0     567.0     197.0    125.0    2,330.0
3. Supporting Implementation and
Capacity Building                      710.0     750.0     700.0     720.0     470.0    350.0    3.700.0
rotal BASELINE COSTS                    3,419.0   7,194.0   7,354.0   5,109.0   1,914.0   565.0    25,555.0
Reimbursement of PPFs                3,940.0                                                     3,940.0
Physical Contingencies                 113.4     121A       84.2      66.2      34.4     17.3      436.8
Price Contingencies                     62.9     280A      426.6     408.4     212.3     82.5    1A71L
Total PROJECT COSTS                     7,535.3   7,595.8   7,8$4.8   5,583.6   2,160.7   664.7    31,404.9
-51



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Procurement
General: The procurement of goods, works and services wili be done in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and JDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997, and January 1999).
The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and the standard forms of contract and request for
proposals for consulting services will be used under the project. Any goods or services not financed by the
Bank will be procured in accordance with the public procurement regulations of the country or the
co-financing institution's procurement regulations.
Advertisement: A general procurement notice will be published in the United Nations Development
Business, announcing goods and consultant services to be procured and inviting interested eligible
suppliers and consultants to express interest. Specific Procurement Notice in Development Business will
also be required for all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000 per contract Notification and
advertising will be carried out in accordance with the provisions in the Guidelines.
Implementation: Responsibility for all procurement under the project will rest with the PIU. The Project
provides for strengthening of the procurement capacity. The Govemment has retained the services of a
qualified and experienced intemational procurement specialist for three months to supplement its
procurement capacity and will recruit qualified counterpart staff to work with the procurement consultant
who will assume the procurement function after necessary training, on-the-job and abroad, at the end of the
assignment of the procurement consultant. Procurement and contract management training for the staff of
the management unit started in February 2001. After one year of the implementation, the Bank mission will
re-assess the capacity of the Unit to effectively manage the Project.
Assessment ofprocurement unit capacities
During pre-appraisal, it was agreed that the Govemment take the following measures to strengthen the
capacity of the PIU before the loan becomes effective: (i) the designated staff will continue to be trained in
procurement, both in the country (on-the-job) and abroad; (ii) the PIU has already hired a procurement
specialist and will hire a regional short-term consultant to assist the PIU, as needed during the
implementation period of the project. The selection and contract of the procurement consultant will be
subject to prior review by the Bank. The capacity of the PIU needs to be strengthened and supplemented
by qualified consultants, as discussed and agreed with the Bank.
Bank has financed four projects in Guinea-Bissau in the past few years. The overall procurement
performance under these projects has been generally satisfactory, except for some cases of procurement
delays, which are mainly attributable to the inexperience of the procurement staff and inadequate
coordination among the agencies involved in project implementation. The project launch workshop will be
conducted immediately following the effectiveness of the credit, which is expected at the latest in September
2002..
An assessment of the PIU capacities in procurement was conducted February 6-9, 2002 and the main
findings are that the PIU has had significant experience with World Bank procedures and feels comfortable
-52-



in applying them. The primary recommendations to reinforce and better this situation are the following:
*   The procurement team should continue to be reinforced with additional staff in terms of administration
and finalization of procurement documents. The regional short-term consultant, which has been
proposed, will provide sufficient assistance to the specialist in place, who has the capacity and
knowledge to implement World Bank procedures.
*   The procurement specialist should limit his intervention in the procurement activities to: (i)
centralization of procurement activities in one procurement plan to ensure that the thresholds are
respected in terms of methods (possibility of group expenditures and aggregates, (ii) preparation of the
bidding documents and requests for proposals; and (iii) advising the component responsible during the
evaluation of the bids.
This means, therefore, that the TORs and technical specifications are prepared by the component
responsible for its implementation. This should be done in a timely manner and to be part of the annual
procurement plan.
Therefore, the assessment indicates that there should be no major procurement problems. The PIU always
uses the World Bank procurement procedures irregardless of the type of contract or the amount This was
due to (i) the need for respecting the rules of the World bank and (ii) lack of an applicable procurement
code in the country. It is also important to point out that a CPAR has never been undertaken in the country
and the new national code was recently approved in January 2002, with substantial help in its preparation
from the World Bank. Ultimately, however the procurement arrangements described in the draft PAD
should not anticipate any major impact on the financial management of the project. Without going into
substantial detail of the new code, since the World Bank Staff have reviewed it and are comfortable with its
contents.
Readinessfor implementation: A detailed procurement plan for the first year of implementation has been
prepared by the PIU and discussed at the negotiations. lt will be finalized and submitted for approval
before project effectiveness. A draft PIP has been prepared and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality. The PIP will be updated quarterly.
Procurement methods (Table A)
A general procurement plan reflecting the bid packages for the entire project period have been prepared. It
will be updated quarterly during project implementation period.
Works(Small Repairs): Works contracts financed under the. project are generally small repairs below US$
50,000. Works contracts estimated above US$200,000 shall be subject to International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Works contracts estimated below US$200,000, but above US$50,000, shall be subject to
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate amount not be exceed US$0.35 million.
Contracts estimated to cost less US$50,000 shall be procured under small works procurement methods up
to an aggregate amount not be exceed US$0.3 million.
Goods: All contracts for goods estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent each shall be subject to
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods contracts estimated below US$100,000, but above
US$50,000 shall be subject to National Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate amount not
exceed US$0.37 million, Goods contracts estimated below US$ 50,000 shall be subject to Intemational
Shopping (IS), including IAPSO and intemet shopping, up to an aggregate arnount not to exceed $1.6
-53 -



million equivalent. Contracts estimated below US$30,000 each shall be through National Shopping (NS).
Consulting services: Except otherwise stipulated, all consulting service contracts will be awarded using
the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service contracts estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 for firms may be awarded through the Consultants Qualifications (CQ) selection method
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines unless a methodology is necessary to
describe the mission execution . For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$100,000
and where well established practices and standards exist such as financial audits, Least-Cost (LC) selection
method may be used. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under individual
contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional
cases, Single-Source selection would be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8-3.11.
Training: The training will generally cover individual training attached to specific institutions, group
training, on-the-job training of technical staff assisted by consultants and international experts; and hiring
consultants for developing training materials, conducting training, and support for training activities
through seminars, workshops and training abroad based on individual needs as well as group requirements.
A detailed training program giving categories of training, number of trainees, duration of training, staff
months, timing and estimated cost etc., will be submitted to IDA for review and approval prior to initiating
the training process. The appropriate methods of selection will be derived from the detailed schedule.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                           0.35          0.30         0.00        0.65
(0            (0.35)       (0.22)        (0.00)      (0.57)
2. Goods                            0.65            0.37          1.58         0.13       2.73
(0.65)          (0.37)       (1.05)        (0.00)      (2.07)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         10.83         0.00       10.83
(0.00)          (0.00)       (8.60)        (0.00)      (8.60)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00         3.37          0.00        3.37
(0.00)          (0.00)       (3.08)        (0.00)      (3.08)
5. Others (equity scheme,           0.00            0.00         9.88          0.00        9.88
retrenchment and recurrent         (0.00)          (0.00)       (7.74)        (0.00)      (7.74)
cost__                                                          _ _ _ _  _
PPF                                 0.00            0.00         3.94          0.00        3.94
(0.00)          (0.00)       (3.94)        (0.00)      (3.94)
Total                            0.65            0.72         29.90         0.13       31.40
(0.65)          (0.72)       (24.63)       (0.00)     (26.00)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 hicludes civil works aid goods to be procured tbrough natio3al shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local Government
units.
-54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optlonal)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms             4.68    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.50    0.00    0.00    5.53
(4.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.40)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (5.30)
B. Individuals       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.30   0.00     5.30
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.30)  (0.00)  (3.30)
Total  4.68    0.00   0.00    0.35    0.50    5.30    0.00    10.83
(4.60)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.30)  (0.40)  (3.30)  (0.00)  (8.60)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 55-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Works and goods contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more shall be subject to prior review. The
ICB and the -first contract under IS, shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. The consultants' contracts
estimated to cost over US$100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals, as well as all sole-source
contracts, and all TORs and methods for selection of consultant contracts, irrespective of the value, shall
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Any training program and any workshop ( including the budget )
related to the project activities will require prior approval by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject
to ex-post review. The Bank's supervision missions will review one of ten contracts which are subject to
post review. The procurement plan and schedule will be updated every three months and sent to the Bank
together with the quarterly progress report.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)            Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                Equal or greater than 200       ICB                     None
Less than 200               NCB
Equal or less than 50   Proc of small works
Equal or greater than 100    Prior review
2. Goods                Equal or greater than 100       ICB                     0.65
Less than 100              NCB                       0.37
Equal or less than 30    National shopping
Equal or greater than 100    Prior review
3. Services             Equal or greater than 100  QCBS, LSC,CQ                 4.41
Firm
Individual          Equal or greater than 50  Individual Consultants         1.20
Single source                                                              AD TOR
4. Retrenchment                                         SOE               Prior for first 4 PEs
Post review for others
5. Equity Financing                                     SOE               Prior for first three
Facility                                                               subprojects and one out of
each that foliow. Post
review for others.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  6.63 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the loan proceeds will be administered by the PIU. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed over six years. The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services,
expenditures for study tours, surveys, studies and training; and (ii) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures
for direct imports, 100% of local ex-factory costs for localy manufactured items and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally, 1000/o of retrenchment cost; and 50% of the equity subproject
(100% of amount eligible).
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount In US$mllllon         Financing Percentage
Works                                      0.50             100% of foreign and 85% of local
expenditures
Goods                                      1.82             100% of foreign and 85% of local
expenditures
Consultants services                       8.26                  1000/e of expenditures
Training and workshop                      2.66                  100% of expenditures
Retrenchment                               2.80                        100%
Equity Scheme                              2.00                        100%
Recurrent cost                             2.50             100% of foreign and 85% of local
expenditures
Unallocated                                1.52
(including contingencies)
PPF Refinancing                            3.94
Total Project Costs                        26.00
Total                                      26.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) as follows:
*   Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent;
* Individual consultants: contracts less than $50,000 equivalent;
* Consulting firms: contracts estimated less than $150,000 equivalent; and
* Training and study tours: expenses less than $50,000 equivalent.
* Equity Financing Facility
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the PIU, and made available for review by Bank
supervision missions and auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts (SA) in CFAF in a commercial bank. The total
authorized allocation of the Special Accounts will be US$1.5 million which will be allocated between the
- 57 -



two (US$1.0 million and US$0.5 million). Upon effectiveness, the Borrower may withdraw an amount of
US$750,000 million representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation. Full allocation will be released
once an aggregate of US$1.5 million has been processed through the Special Accounts, or until such earlier
time deemed appropriate by IDA. The borrower may withdraw the remaining amount by submitting the
relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least once per
month, and must include reconciled bank statements, as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Financial Management Assessment Report
Funds Flow:
The credit proceeds will be disbursed through two special accounts to be managed by the PIU. Funds
deposited in the special accounts will be used to finance Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The
counterpart funds will be deposited in two project accounts also managed by the PIU. Main issues are:
* The availability of counterpart funds. Clear commitment from the Government were sought during
negotiation.
*   The situation of the local banking system which will have to be taken into account in determining: (i)
the Bank with which the Special Accounts will be opened; and (ii) the level of funds advance into the
project's special account as well as direct payment threshold.
Staffing:
The key accounts and financial staff are already in place, including an Assistant Administrator and
Finance, two accountants and a procurement specialist. They have satisfactory qualifications and
professional experience and have been trained in World Bank procurement, disbursement and financial
management procedures. The experience of managing the PPF for this project has proven satisfactory.
However, it was felt during the assessment that there is a need for better responsibilities among the
administration and finance unit. The lack of written procedures makes it difficult to identify each staff
terms of reference and detailed responsibilities. The preparation of the project's manual of procedures
should be helpful.
Accounting Policies and Procedures:
The PIU has been applying satisfactory procedures since it was set up in 1998. However, these procedures
have not been formalized in a reference document such as a manual. It is therefore difficult to verify if all
staff have been duly informed about these procedures and whether these procedures have been applied
consistently. It is therefore necessary to develop a manual of procedures including accounting policies and
procedures, definition of respective duties with a good segregation, budgeting system and all relevant
administrative and financial procedures. The PIU has been applying satisfactory procedures since it was
set up in 1998. However, these procedures have not been formalized in a reference document such as a
manual. It is therefore difficult to verify if all staff have been duly informed about these procedures and
whether these procedures have been applied consistently. It is therefore necessary to develop a manual of
procedures including accounting policies and procedures, definition of respective duties with a good
segregation, budgeting system and all relevant administrative and financial procedures.
External Audit:
The only overdue audit report in the World Bank projects portfolio in Guinea Bissau is that of the
-58 -



Technical Assistance project as of December 31,2000. This report is 8 months overdue now. Government
has indicated that this audit has been completed and, once payment problems have been resolved, will be
submitted to IDA before June 2002. As far as the PSRDP is concemed, an auditor has recently been
selected for the project and will audit the accounts of 2000-2002.
Reporting and Monitoring:
The PIU will prepare quarterly FMR, the format of which was discussed and agreed during the appraisal
mission. The quarterly reports will cover financial management, procurement and physical progress
monitoring, covering all activities financed under the project regardless the source of funding. No major
problem is expected with the financial and procurement reports. Areas of concem are with the physical
progress monitoring report where the PIU lacks experience and which most requires additional efforts.
The format of the reports will be customized in the computerized FMS so that the reports can be generated
automatically at least for the financial and procurement reports. The reports on the physical progress still
need to be fine tuned by retaining the set of key indicators to be monitored for each major project's activity.
It was agreed that the physical progress reports will be of two types depending on the type of indicators.
For specifically measurable indicators (such as the number of enterprises privatized), the reports will be
mainly in the format of tables. And when the indicators are not measurable (such as for reforms), the
physical progress reports will be descriptive indicating actions taken and results achieved. The annual
project financial statements will be subject to extemal audit as described above.
Information Systems:
A new computerized FMS has been installed. PPF transactions are being recorded. The report formats
remain to be customized. However, the same software is used by other World Bank financed projects and it
has proved satisfactory and is capable of generating the Project Management Report (PMR). The software
vendor confirmed that the FMR could be customized without any major problem and work has already
begun.
Impact of procurement arrangements:
The procurement arrangements do not anticipate any major impact on the financial management of the
project.
- 59-



Disbursement Arrangements
Method of Disbursement
The overall project FMS is expected to include project management reporting capabilities from the start of
project's implementation. However, the lack of previous financial management reporting experience from
the PIU is not in favor of using FMR-based disbursement method from the beginning of the project.
However, quarterly FMR, including financial, procurement and physical progress, will be prepared as soon
as the project is effective. During an interim period of 18 months, these FMR will be reviewed and the
financial management capacity will be strengthened. At the end of the interim period, it is expected that the
project will be capable of producing reliable FMR that could be used as a basis for disbursement. The
capacity of the project wiDl be reassessed at the end of the interim period to confirm whether FMR-based
disbursement method can be used, even though such a switch is not anticipated at present In the meantime,
the project will follow traditional disbursements methods.
Special Account Allocation and Procedures
(a) Special Accounts under Traditional Disbursement Procedures: Two special accounts will be opened at
a commercial bank for IDA's share of eligible expenditures, depending on the situation of the banking
sector in Guinea Bissau. The authorized allocation of the special accounts has been set at a total of US$ 1.5
million. The first special account wil have a maximum amount of US$1million, while-the second will have
US$0.5 million. The second special account wiD handle only expenditures related to the EFF. The
retrenchment will be handled through a project account. These accounts will initially be replenished up to
half its maximum allocation. Full allocation will be released once US$1.5 million has been spent through
the accounts, or until an earlier time deemed appropriate by IDA. Each replenishment request will be
accompanied, as necessary, by a current bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
(b) Special Account for Withdrawal Made on the Basis of FMRs: Upon receipt of each application for
withdrawal of an amount from the Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the FMR accompanying said
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month period
following the date of such report.
Disbursement Mechanisms
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the Special Account is
reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be fully
documented except for contracts under the prior review threshold to be determined as a result of the
procurement assessment. SOE documentation will be retained at the PIU for review by Bank staff and
annual audits.
-60-



Action Plan agreed with the PIU
Action                 Tasks                                       Target
Completion
Date
I .Development of the Preparation of the draft manual by PIU staff  February 15,
project's  manual   of                                             2002
procedures
Review of the draft manual by World Bank and  February 28,
comments sent to Borrower                    2002
Final version incorporating WB comments ready  March 15, 2002
(condition of
effectiveness)
2. Installation  of the  Finalization the installation of the computerized  End of February
computerized FMS       financial management system including:      2002 (condition
*   Developing a chart of accounts reflecting the  of effectiveness)
activities/ sources of financing of the project,
*   Bank and Project to agree on set of physical
progress monitoring indicators
*   Customizing the agreed format for the
quarterly FMR and,
*   Completing the testing of the transactions
recording and reports printing
Conditions
Effectiveness conditions
* The Government has adopted the PIM in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.
* The Borrower has established a financial management system, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association, including the development of a financial procedures manual and the appointment of
financial management staff for the Project Implementation Unit with experience acceptable to the
Association.
* The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to IDA that FMRs can be produced.
* The project's auditor has been appointed, based on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
* A Steering Committee, acceptable to IDA, has been established and is operational.
Disbursement and other conditions
* Preparation by the Government and review with IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each year of
the report that integrates the results of monitoring and evaluation activities in the implementation of the
project and the achievements of project objectives.
* Undertake bi-annual operational audits of the project and review with IDA, no later than March 31
2004, 2006 and 2008.
*   Conduct in collaboration with IDA a mid-term review of the project no later than June 30, 2005.
*   Maintenance of the PIU under MEF in the form and with functions, staffing and resources acceptable
- 61 -



to IDA.
* Meeting the agreed performance indicators, including carrying out environmental audits for all the
relevant PEs before completion of each transaction.
* Disbursements for severance payments to be made to PE staff retrenched conditional to submission to
IDA by the Govemment of a detailed retrenchment plan in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.
* Support to the private sector under the EFF are conditional on an internationally recruited manager
being in place
* Support to BIGB will be conditional on the liquidation being effective.
Financial Covenants
Bank's standard financial covenants apply for this project. They include the requirement to submit annual
audit reports the project's account statements not later than six months after the end of each calendar year,
as well as quarterly FMR as described above.
Supervision plan
Given the experience of the PIU in managing the PPF and the current situation in installing the financial
management systems (manual of procedures, computerized system), no major problem is anticipated at this
moment. The project's financial management supervision should focus first on ensuring that the financial
management system is fully operational and this requires close follow up during the initial phase of project
implementation (at least the first six months to see the first quarterly reports). A financial management
supervision mission in the field should be organized at least once a year, covering the status of the financial
management system and SOE reviews.
-62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      27                          48
First Bank mission (identification)             03/26/1998                  03/26/1998
Appraisal misslon departure                     02/21/2000                  02/08/2002
Negotiations                                    05/01/2000                  02/25/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/01/2000                  09/30/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Public Administration and Labor    Private Sector Task Forces
Ministry of Economy and Finance                Civil Aviation Authority
Ministry of Transport and Communication        Telecommunication Regulatory Agency
Ministry of Natural Resources and Energy       Port Authority
Ministry of Justice                            Project Implementation Unit
Preparation assistance:
IDA PPF - Seven tranches for a total of US$3.94. Total includes three tranches of IDA PPF for a Total of
US$ 1.95, originally granted under the proposed Water and Energy Project (P001012).
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Iradj Alikhani                    Team Leader
Eric Boucheny                     Infrastructure Reform
Shenhua Wang                      Privatization and Project Implementation
Paul Lignere                      Telecommunication
Ron Kopicki                       Supply chains development
Jean-Michel Happi                 Original Team Leader (1998) and Peer reviewer
Hlerminia Martinez                Peer Reviewer
Gilberto de Barros                Peer Reviewer
Jose Kastrup                      Country Legal Counsel
Serigne Omar Fye                  Environmental Assessment
Kristine M. Ivarsdotter           Resettlement Framework
Marcelo Andrade                   Country Economist
Judite Femandes                   Task Team assistant
Moustapha Ndiaye                  Financial Management
Bourama Diaite                    Procurement
Lucy Fye                          Economist
Ahmnadou Dem                      Economist
Sherri Archondo                   Operations Officer
- 63 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Developrnent Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailed Cost Tables
Draft Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
Aide-Memoires from identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
Confidential report: Guinea-Bissau - Banking Sector Restructuring - August 29, 2001.
FIAS: Study of Administrative Barriers - 2001.
C. Other
Government Draft Private Sector Policy Staternent - February 17, 2002.
Environmental Audit Study.
Resettlement Framework.
*Including electronic files
- 64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
03-Jan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         ID                           Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P065725        2000 ECONOMIC REHABIUTATION & RECOVERY CRDIT             0.00     25.00                            0.00      12.50      14.31       0.00
P035688        1998 NAT.HEALTH DEV.PROGR                                0.W0     11.70                            0.00       8.40       7.00       2.91
P001015        1997 BASIC EDUCATION                                     0.00     14.30                            0.00      10.37      10.91       2.02
Total:        0.00      51.W                             0.00       31.26      32.23      4.93
- 65-



GUINEA-BISSAU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
lFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Panic    Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1994               AEF Agribissau                0.25    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Banco da Africa               0.00    0.28     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        0.25     0.28    0.00     0.00    0.25    0.28     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
lub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                Guinra-  tSharen      Low.
Ulsee      AMJr.    Incom       Developmnt diamond'
2000
Population. mid-vear (miNions)                        1.2      t69      2.459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Alas method USS)                     180       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, (J$$ billions)                    0.22       313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
PoDulation (%)                                        2.2       2.6       1.9 G9     I                            Grs
Labor force (%i                                       2.3       2.6       2.4     Gri Gmary
Most recent estimate (tatest year avaIlable, 119940O)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty 1% of potulation below national poverty lne.   .         .
Urban oopulation (% lota fOt popPuation)              23        34        32
Life exapetancv at birth &ydarS)                      44        47        S9
Infant motality (pr 1.000 live birtha)                128       92        77
Child malnutrdUon t% ochiAldran under 5)              23                   ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water souce (f% of polulatfon)   53        55       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  62        38        38
Gross primarv enrollment (%of school.agepopulation),  62         78       96            -Gulnss-Bissu
Male                                                79        85       102            ---------- Low-Income group
Female                                              45        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     199t0     1999      2000
Economnic ratioes
GDP (US$ bilrions)                         0.11     0.24      0.22      0.22
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.2     29.9      16.9      17.7                    Trade
Exports or goods and services/GDP           12.7      9.9      24.8      31.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -1.0      2.8      -11       -8.8
Gross national sevingslGDP                     ..    15.3       4.2      -2.8
Current account belancelGDP                   ..     14.6     .12.6      -17.5    Domestic                    nvestment
Interest pavmentslGDP                        1.0      t.4       2.2       5.6     savings
Total debt/GDP                             126.2    283.9     420.3     435.4     gaving
Total debt service/exports                    ..     23.5      15.7       8.1
Present value of debt/GDP                      .        ..    271.9     277.5
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..   1. 113.1    809.8
Indebtedness
19i0-90  1904        1999      "00    200044
(average annual rowth)
GDP                                 4.0      0.2      7.8       7.5       5.9            -     Guinea-Bijsau
GDP per capita                      2.1     -2.2      5.4       5.1       3.4        -         Low4-ncome group
Exoorts of poods and services      -1.7     11.5  --- 22.9     1a-9       14
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1960     1990      1999      2000      Growth of investment and GODP (%
(% of GDP)                                                                       100
Agriculture                                 44.3     60.8      60.6      58.8
Industry                                    19.7     18.6      12.3      12.3     so-
Manufacturing                               ..      8.4       10.2      9.9
Services                                    36.1     20.6      27.1      26.9         7.
Private consumption                         73.3     86.9      90.4      95.2    .60
General government consumption              27.6     10.3      10.8      13.6               -    GD0       *OGDP
Imports of goods and services               41.8     37.0      42.8      58.2
19'0-90  1990-86      1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  4.7      3.1       7.5       4.0    '0-
Industry                                     2.2     -3.1       1.5       4.0    aro m              A
Manufacturing                               ..     -2.0        1.3      2.2
Services                                     3.5     -2.4       8.6      12.8       MKA0
Private consumption                         -1.2      2.6       4.0       3.4      o          `s                     oo
General government consumption               7.2      2.7      34.0      31.0    40
Gross domestic investment                   12.9     -7.6      74.5      -9.8 a-Exports                  -   Imports
Imports of goods and services                0.3      1.1      65.0      27.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicatorm in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 67 -



Guinea-Bissau
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1990     2000     Inflation       _       _
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       50
Consumer prices                                      33.0      -2.t      8.6      0
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.5     30.2       5.7      3.3
Govemment flnance                                                                20
(% of GDP, incluoes cunrent grants)
Current revnue                               0.0     24.9      18.0     17.9    -20
Current budget balance                       0.0      9.2      .2.6     -4.6             -  GDP rSna r        CPi
Overall surplus/defcit                       0.0    -18.2     -13.4    -19.1
TRADE
1980     1990      1990     2000      Expo0t and Impo t lvs (US$ mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                    19        56       68     toD
Cashew nuts                                  ..      12        49       60
Fish and shrimp                                       3         1        1      76
Manufactures                                 ..
Totalimports (cif)                                    78         66       86 S
Food                                                 15        31       34      25
Fuel and energy                              ..       8         7       10
Capital goods                                                 -10
Export price index (1995=100)                  .      124        95      100          94   96   go    97   90   99   00
Import price index (1995=100)                 ,,      87        102      118                 MExports      Mlmnorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      143        93       85
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services     NM                  24         56       75 o
Imports of goods and services                N/A       90        96      125
Resource balance                             NM       -66       40       -51      6I
Net income                                   N/A      -11       -14      -12
Net current transfers                                 41         26       25     -10
Current account balance                      N/A      -36       -28      -38
Financing items (net)                          .      51         26       58
Changes in net reserves                        0      -15         2      -20    -2D
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       18        34       44
Conversion rate (DEC, locaDUS$)              0.8     33.6     615.7    712.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    Composlton of 2000 dabt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         140     693        943      936
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0
IDA                                          5      146       227      227                   G 82
Total debt service                             4        6         9        6
IBRD                                         0       0         0         0
IDA                                          0        1         3        5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                C 17
Official grants                             37       63                           E: 345
Official creditors                          54       34        13       10
Private creditors                           18       0          0        0
Foreign direct investment                    0       2
Portfolio equity                             0       0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0      25          0       25      A- IBFD                    E- blateral
Disbursements                                4       16         2       14      B-IDA    D - Other mutisateral  F - Privae
Principal repayments                         0       0          3        3     C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flows                                    4       15        -1       11
Interest payments                            0        1         0        2
Net transfers                                4       14        -1       10
Development Economics                                                                                             9/18101
-68 -



Additional Annex 11: Equity Scheme
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Developrnent Project
Equity Financing FadUty: Promoting Private Investment In a Post-Conflict Economy
Introduction
This Annex summarizes the rationale for a new mechanism for equity finance to the private sector in
Guinea-Bissau, a post-conflict country. There is general agreement that rapid renewal of private investment
is needed in post-conflict countries, but that major barriers - destruction of assets, weakness of the banking
sector, increased country risk - block that investment. Stakeholders have argued that unless investment
financing is addressed more directly, the actual supply response might be less than needed and that
post-conflict countries will be unable to recover. Because of the destruction of capital during conflicts and
subsequent market failures related to the financial sector and country risk, exceptional efforts may be
walTanted to re-start post conflict economies. A innovative approach is described below to stimulate private
investment in post-conflict situations. The approach would be tested in Guinea-Bissau under a proposed
Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project.
Background
Post-conflict economies share certain characteristics:
*   Low per-capita income.
*   High income inequality;
*   Low social indicators and poor social sector outcomes;
* Unfavorable investment climate;
*   A weak State that remains involved in industry and commerce;.
*   Depleted business infrastructure, notably the financial sector and the courts.
*   Limited and inefficient participation of the private sector in economic activities, because of low skills,
loss of assets during the conflict, feeble investment, which in turns damages growth.
Such countries attempt to emerge from the vicious circle resulting from the situation described above by
implementing, with the support of the donor community, a poverty reduction strategy based on a
three-pronged approach encompassing macroeconomic stability, increased social sector expenditures and
private sector-led growth. Emphasis is usually put on the first two areas. The first is a necessary, if
insufficient, condition for growth. The second provides an essential safety net. However, a private
sector-led growth strategy is the main instrument for sustainable poverty alleviation.
A typical private sector strategy supported by the World Bank in post-conflict is a combination of
rehabilitating productive capacity and supporting policies to stimulate private investment through an
improved business climate. Actions include the following: (a) measures to ensure macroeconomic stability,
especially low inflation, restoration of the exchange rate, and reducing government arrears to the private
sector to make the latter more liquid; (b) privatization, liquidation or divestiture of commercial and
industrial enterprises; (c) infrastructure reforn, including private participation and related regulatory
capacity building (infrastructure services in Bissau are amongst the worst in the subcontinent); (d)
improved investment climate, through tax and regulatory reform and legal capacity building; (e)
development of potential entry points through policy reforms and capacity building, often agribusiness and
-69-



natural resource based activities; and (f) limited financial sector reform, through micro-finance and
restructuringAiquidation of distressed financial institutions.
The assumption behind this strategy is that improving the investment climate and competitiveness will
induce new investment, thereby fueling growth. There is evidence, for example based on Uganda's
experience during the 1990s, that this model can work. However, there are lags between the reforms and
supply response, which especially affect SMEs. Stakeholders in Africa contend that lack of investment
finance is a cause of this weak performance. In response to these concerns, the World Bank group has
extended lines of credit and credit risk guarantees to sound financial institutions, promoted the development
of leasing industry and, experimented with venture capital schemes, with limited success. However,
partners in post-conflict countries have pointed out that half a decade or so of capacity building efforts
would be needed before the financial sector is able to intermediate effectively. Therefore another approach
is needed to address the immediate problem of investment finance.
Stimulating Private Sector Investment Response
The rehabilitation of public infrastructure is vital in post-conflict countries and is understood to demand
public finance, including from concessional sources. However, rehabilitating private enterprises present a
difficult economic problem, as it would not be efficient to restore damage across the board. A program to
deal with this problem based on economic project selection and new investment, rather than restoring what
was there before the conflict, could therefore make a significant contribution to short and medium-term
growth. One such program is described below. Its elements could be achieved under a design that would
not be radically different from many donor-financed credit lines. The main difference is in the financing
terms, which would be grants.
A program to deal with damage to private assets must be based on: (i) support for public enterprises
undergoing privatization/liquidation or private SMEs; (ii) support for enterprises that attract incremental
private investment; and (iii) private investor selection of viable companies. The first principle would avoid
subsidizing unviable public enterprises. The second ensures that the program is based on sound principles,
as the enterprises receiving support would be selected by private firms investing their own money. The
third would make sure that enterprises receiving support would operate on private business principles, not
on guidance from public authorities.
The governance of a reconstruction program must be designed to avoid moral hazard and uneconomic
selection. This could be done by: (i) providing support only at the time of transfer of the enterprise into
private hands; (ii) giving support only to match private investment into the enterprise; and (iii) designing a
disbursement mechanism which will prevent the new owner from using the financing for other purposes.
The following additional guiding principles would also apply:
*   Equity program would last a maximum of four years;
*   Matching subsidy would be subject to a ceiling of US$200,000;
*   Private investors would provide their equity first and in cash;
* Incremental economic and financial rates of return of at least 15 percent;
*   Only firms with less than 100 pernanent employees and with majority national shareholding would be
eligible.
*   investors would provide evidence of expenditure according to the appraised investment plan;
*   Up-front careful credit analysis of investor plan and investment plan by program manager;
*   Full compliance with environmental guidelines;
*   Clear eligibility criteria whereby greenfield projects will be excluded from accessing the facility;
demand will thus originate from divested PEs and from existing private firms, especially those that
- 70-



have suffered from damage during the conflict.
*   Program managed independently by an expert (venture capitalist profile) recruited internationally;
*   Investor would provide regular information for evaluating the program; and
*   The option whereby investors would reinvest all profits for 5 years and declare no dividends in that
period was considered, but dropped as it would be difficult to enforce and it might discourage
investors.
It is proposed that this new approach be tested in Guinea-Bissau. The reasons are: (i) the Government and
private sector have requested such exceptional assistance; (ii) even though the country is post-conflict, the
political and civil situation has stabilized; (iii) the proposed project includes other components, including
information and logistics, privatization, investment climate and regulatory reform, that would improve the
likelihood of success; (iv) the trade regime is liberalized eliminating distortions in investment incentives;
and (v) the country is small and a meaningful experiment can be undertaken at reasonable cost. To increase
the likelihood of success, training funds would be made available under the subcomponent. These funds
would be provided on a cost-sharing basis and would help release management constraints to ensure that
the return on investments is maximized.
Alternatives
In designing this facility, other alternatives were considered, including the following:
*   Privatefinance/venture capital delivery mechanism (including IFC and KOAD). This option is
not being pursued because the shortage of private equity after the conflict and the risky investment
climate make it unviable. The proposed mechanism, by stimulating private investment in Bissau,
would bolster medium to long-term prospects for traditional financing, including that from IFC.
* Partial direct compensation for war damages to the private sector. While the equity arguments
for such an approach are strong, the approach would not necessarily generate new investment and
employment. It would also confront difficult problems of identifying war damage and evaluating its
economic effects. Furthermore, it excludes existing entrepreneurs who wish to rehabilitate and
expand existing activities; these would be eligible under the proposed scheme, as long as they are
ready to provide their own equity contribution.
* Encouraging other donors or institutions to finance the proposed scheme. Although alternate
donors are few, a cofinancing option will be pursued with others (including BOAD, IFAD and
USAID). Experience suggests that in the absence of substantial lead World Bank financing, these
partners would not initiate such a scheme in Guinea-Bissau. BOAD, which manages a regional
UEMOA fund, could co-finance the scheme. The main issue identified is whether BOAD would
find this feasible and be able to deliver its support in a timely manner.
* Addressing the needs of micro-entrepreneurs. The above scheme might also have been extended
to very small investments (e.g., under US$10,000) and could be made operational by relaxing
eligibility conditions under a traditional matching-grant scheme. A small pilot of US$500,000
could have been integrated into the above proposal, but monitoring and evaluation of such small
projects would be a problem, so would the potential moral hazard (immediate resale of equipment
financed). A CDD type of instrument might thus be better suited for piloting the approach.
Benefits and Risks
The main benefit of the proposed approach is that it would provide the quick financing required for urgent
investments which are clearly identified. The chief risk is political interference in the investments. The
- 71 -



proposal manages this risk by imposing a management model and corporate governance that put the
investments on a market basis. A second risk is that of few good investments in the short-run. The final
risk is the reemergence of conflict, which will be carefully monitored in the context of this and other project
components.
- 72 -



Additional Annex 12: Government Action Plan
GUINEA-BISSAU: Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
ACTIVITIES                 OBJECTIVES                RESPONSIBLE       CRITERIAS FOR       TARGET
INSTITUTIONS        EVALUATION          DATE
Telecommunication   *    Competition in the             MTC, ICGB,      *concession contract     2005
telecommunicadons sector and capacity  DGT, Private  *regulatory agency is
of regulator is enhanced by (i)    Sector           created and operational
elaborating the legal and regulatory                *two cellular licenses
framework (interconnection, tariffs, etc);          will issued
(ii) strengthening the capacity                     *teledensity
Civil Aviation      *    Civil Aviation services are    DGAC, DGT,      * Civil Aviation Code is  2007
improved and the Civil Aviation     MEF, MTC,       revised and adopted
Authority is strengthened by: (i)   ENAG            * concession agreement
improving the legal framework for civil             * frequency of flights are
aviation including Liberalize skies, Civil          increased
Aviation Code; (ii) management of airport           * air safety equipment
is privatized by concession agreement               has been installed and is
operational
Water & Energy           Framework for utility privatization  AAEA, UCP  *                       2003
has been finalized
Port Services       '    Improve the performance of the port APGB, DGT,  *                       2006
to facilitate commercial traffic on the  DNMP, APGB,
domestic, regional and international level CMB
by (i) resolving the issues surrounding the
concession agreement, (ii) implementing
a computerized clearing system and
preparing the port master plan and start
implementing
Industrial and      *    Elimination of the licensing   MEF; CMANI.      Number of sectors in  December
Commercial Sector   requirement in the industrial and                    which the alvaras have  2004
commercial sectors (including import                been eliminated . Ratio
and export), except for public health,              of alvaras emitted over
education, protection or management of              the number of
natural resources activities; the banking           enterprises created.
sector and the insurance sector, as wel
as natural monopolies, should continue
to be regulated. A negative list of
activities should be established and
published
Modernize                Removal of the minimum         MEF; National                            2001
Agriculture: cashew  investment obligation.             Commission for                         completed
Cashew;
CMANI.
Fishing                  Establishment of a food safety  MEF;-Ministry of Average duration to  2003-2005
certification process with the view of  Fishing      obtain a fishing license
exporting to the EU                 Fishermen union; (artisanal and
a    Simplification of the licensing  CMANI.         industrial).
criteria for freightage and industrial
fshing, in the context of the new fishing
law,
Creation of a Consultative Group to
view quotas and licensing for industrial
- 73 -



fishing..
*    Simplification of the procedures to
obtain artisanal fishing licenses.
*    Broad dissemination of the new
general fishing law.
*    Undertake a small study on the
labor market in the fishing sector with a
view to improve flexibility.
Tourism             *    Simplification of the approval  Ministry of    Average duration to     2003
process to create tourism related  Tourism;         obtain a permit, in
usinesses                         CMANI.           cases of projects
*    Design of a National Plan for land             without environment
concessions in concertation with the                impact.
Cadastre Services. This Plan will be used
lan as an evaluation criteria for
environmental risk assessment
*    Creation of a Commission for
issuing tourism permits by consolidating
the Ministry of Social Equipment, the
Municipal Council and the General
Department of Tourism, particularly on
he issue of tourism activities
Access to Land and  Adoption of Land Law regulations and  Municipal     *Average duration of    2004
Fixed Asset         streamline procedures to access land.  Council of   obtaining a concession
Transactions                                           Bissau; Cadastre  title for land;
*   Reduction in the the number of  Services;       oVolume of private
institutions involved in land concession  Ministry of  transactions (sell and
awards                             Agriculture,     rent)
*    Completion of an institutional  Forestry, & Cattle
analysis of Cadastre Services and of a  Breeding;
study to implement a land policy to  General
market land (sell and rent).       Department of the
Environment;
CMANI.
Building            *   Adopt a Planning Code for      Municipal        *Average duration of    2004
Authorization       building construction".            Council of       obtaining a building
*   In the short term: (i) extension of  Bissau;    pennit
the the industrial zone (ii) strengthen  Ministry of Social *Industrial Zone.
the services of the Municipal Council of Equipment;
Bissau; and (iii) creation of a a  CMANI.
Commission for approval buildings
outside of Bissau.
Environment Impact o    Adoption of an Environmental Law  General                                2004
*    In the short term introduction of a  Department for
positive list (containing activities which  Environment;
should be subject to an environment  CMANI.
assessment Strengthening institutional
capacity of the General Department for
Environment
Foreign Exchange    *   Remove the 0.25 tax on transfers  MEF; BCEAO;                            2003
outside of the EU zone              CAMNI
Price Controls      *    Progressive elimination of price  MEF; Secretary  Price index for the   2004
controls on combustibles, rice and other  of State for  internal price for
products.                           Commerce,        combustibles
*    Elimination of all "informal price  Industry and
controls on products not subject to price  Artisans;  Ratio of internal price
controls.                           CMANI.          over the international
- 74 -



*    Liberalization of prices of water,            price for combustibles
electricity and telecommunication within
the framework of specific sector reforms.          Number of products
subject to price controls
limited
Import and Export   *   Removal of the import and export MEF; Secretary  Average duration of    2002
procedures         register (BRPI e BRPE).             of State for    process of removal of
*    Prior to the implementation of the  Commerce,  goods from custorns,
WAEMU Investment Code, elinination  Industry and    namely for projects
of customs exemptions liquidation  Artisans; General accredited in the
process for projects eligible to the  Department of  Investment Code..
National Code                      Customs
DPIP, CMANI.
Contributions and  *    Implementation of a fiscal reform to MEF; CMANI.  Number of companies   2004
Taxes               simplify taxation and suppress business            that send financial
disincentives                                       statements to the fiscal
*    Creation of an information agency              services; ratio with the
and information of tax payers                       number of enterprises
Labor Regulations   *   Proceed with the labor legislative  MEF; Ministry of Number of contracts  2004
reform, particularly: (i) correct tie  Public      and their duration.
working conditions within a determined Administration
timeframe; (ii) correct the licensing  (IGT);
conditions                         CMANI.
- 75-



-76 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24520
SENEGAL
~~~~~~~~~~~~FlS -  -' -: - -R -,                  "-' 0_ ,: '           v  -                    .----
CACHEU                   1    010 -
,.:Ic.'.. 1 .q| GABU                                                                        GUINEA
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT
ATLANTIC                          2 ;.- -
OCEAN                             I              A            -          .                     1                :'7
BIOMBO                /N
QUINARA-
Ihi  flip  hi! Cleef  p',wcM-iQ                       M 1; ..-...... _,\: .1......_
bN  rhe  Wood  Pnk's  s,I 0.                            ,.. ,
eicNiJy tel  torhe  con.enier.e.. ._-                                    ,r       m          _-
nii,enol -. ' Thr Wand Br'  s-tn                                                         -       GUINEA-BISSAU
G tc-vp  ra6  Jen er,natobo v  used  -.
oo Sh;i JnjonrK  5'o.Cl  ~-, _ _: _TMBL 4ru   -   C7#sn1:. _\,'. ,,,_S   /ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
o 'i   n e a t   c flo  . 1   le g a   , ,.0 -rr r. -p 
IYofi .J fioW3rldbranilnsp   6 . Z * C J S   ' -   rs:''   ,   f .l -   '   t2,,; .,,, ,1TOMTOMBA I J
jIoluS  A R iA0S5S  h  nrrDry  c:  Crfia  T:
o.I,ir~~~~~~~~~~~-i; i     avretirsc T- i-a.rae                    ' -I:-tl uXs I_1 r,li; : ' .Ki.. o ;
I i ~             -|r  B O                                                           l j .   .   LS   i ! : | g j
-..tl                                               - _                                        C tI  I, -, -_  lsr  ,/
nl"it-c,
T - ? %   y   -  -       ,-,,                     '-  ,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -
CiUIJIIIE  . f/  '"'        4  pnll .  4,-iu                        Io
RiSSAIJ  *- I!11 H 
.______________________ _M                                                                                     C I  -  It '..
_                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1993



