Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3622 GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development  Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 17, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3622 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the 
Page  2
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received the Private Sector Policy Statement from 
the Borrower dated February 25, 2002, describing the principles and the objectives of the Private 
Sector Development program and strategy of the Borrower (hereinafter called the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BIGB” or “
Banco Internacional da Guiné-Bissau
” means the Borrower’s 
International Bank referred to in Schedule 2, Part 2 (b) to this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a private enterprise legally established and operating in the 
territory of the Borrower, which meets the criteria agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association, and described in the PIM (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“FCFA” and “
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
” means the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(d)
“Equity Financing Facility” or “EFF” means the funding mechanism through 
which the Borrower shall provide EFF Grants (as hereinafter defined) for Beneficiaries for the 
purposes of Part A.3 of the Project; 
(e)
“EFF Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Page  3
Beneficiary for the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project; 
(f)
“EFF Grant Agreement” means a grant agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project;
(g) 
“Environmental Impact Assessment” or “EIA” means the environmental impact 
assessment, acceptable to the Bank, to be prepared and submitted to the Association by the 
Borrower, in accordance with the EIA Framework agreed with the Association, for each eligible 
Beneficiary, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, consisting of, 
inter alia
:
(i) a description of the site where construction activities are to be carried out under Part A.3 of 
the Project and the justification for said activities; (ii) the actual or potential environmental 
impact of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above; and (iii) a 
management plan setting forth adequate mitigating measures and systems required to monitor the 
implementation of the construction activities referred to under sub-paragraph (i) above and to 
ensure compliance of such activities with said measures with a view to limiting any actual and 
potential adverse environmental impact; 
(h)
“Financial Management Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance;
(j)
“OHADA” means the 
Organisation pour l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit 
des Affaires
 established by the treaty signed on October 17, 1993 in Port-Louis (Mauritius);
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances granted 
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the seven letters of agreement signed on behalf of 
the Association and the Borrower on (i) January 20, 1997, (ii) May 6, 1997, (iii) January 7, 1998, 
(iv) January 8, 1998, (v) July 27, 2000, (vi) January 20, 2001, and (vii) March 1, 2002; 
(l)
“PIM” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of 
the different activities under the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
the institutional responsibilities, 
reporting structure, review and monitoring, procurement, disbursement, financial management 
and, 
inter alia
,
criteria, procedures and guidelines for the EFF Grants, for the purposes of the 
implementation of the Project;
(m)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(n)
“Separation Program” means the program referred to in Schedule 1 Part 2 (d) to 
this Agreement  and as described in the Borrower’s Private Sector Policy Statement;  
(o)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  4
this Agreement; and
(p)
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee referred to in Part 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable costs of goods, works and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, 
amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the Beneficiaries under 
an EFF Grant, to meet the costs of goods, works and services required for such EFF Grant, and in 
respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested;
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA 
two special deposit accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association (Special 
Account A for Parts A, B and C, excluding Part A.3 of the Project, and Special Account B for 
Part A.3 of the Project), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement; and
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
Page  5
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and 
December 15 commencing June 15, 2012 and ending December 15, 2041. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on December 15, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  6
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the  Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and 
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement  as well as the mitigating measures set forth in the EIA to be prepared by the 
Borrower.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  7
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, a project 
account for Parts A.1, A.2, B and C of the Project (the Project Account A), and a project account 
for Part A.3 of the Project (the Project Account B), in FCFA and in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account A, by the first day of each quarter 
each year during Project implementation, such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon 
with the Association to timely replenish Project Account A; 
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account B, such amounts received from the 
Beneficiaries for the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, as shall be required and agreed upon 
with the Association to timely replenish Project Account B and in accordance with Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and 
(d)
use the funds in the Project Accounts exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project.
Section 3.05.
Without limitation to its obligations under Sections 3.01 and 3.04 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall open and maintain a dedicated account in US Dollars to deposit 
the Association’s share from the proceeds of the Credit to be used for the severance payments 
under Category 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
Page  8
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
 For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring 
Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the projected and actual sources and uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the previously forecast and actual implementation 
targets; and
Page  9
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of the calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of 
the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Private Sector Policy Statement shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i)  of this Agreement have been 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory  to the 
Association;
(c)
the Borrower has established the Steering Committee in accordance with the 
provisions of Part 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(d)
the Borrower has established a financial management system, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association, including the development of a financial procedures 
manual and the appointment of financial management staff for the Project Implementation Unit 
with experience acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(e)
the Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that FMRs 
Page  10
can be produced.
Section 6.02 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Economia e das Finanças
C. P. 67
Bissau
Guiné-Bissau
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
MEF 245-201626
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in            
Bissau, Republic of Guinea-Bissau, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
Page  11
By
/s/ Rui Duarte Barros
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ John McIntire
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(to be Expressed in
SDR Equivalent)
                    % of 
              Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1)   Goods 
1,400,000
100% of foreign expenditures and 
85% of  local expenditures
(2)  Works
   400,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 85% of  
local expenditures 
(3)   Consultants’ Services
       and audits
6,700,000
100% 
(4)  Training and    
       Workshops 
(5) EFF Grants under
Part A.3 of the 
Project
2,200,000
1,600,000
100% 
100% of amounts disbursed
Page  12
(6)  Severance payments
2,300,000
100% of expenditures incurred
(7) Operating Costs
(8) Refinancing of the 
      Project Preparation 
      Advances
2,100,000
3,200,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 85% of 
local expenditures
Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement
(9) Unallocated
1,100,000
__________
     TOTAL
21,000,000
=========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, 
that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods and services shall 
be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
Borrower on account of the Project implementation including maintenance of information 
systems, office supplies, maintenance and operation of vehicles, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term “severance payments” means payments made by the Borrower’s public 
enterprises selected for privatization to their employees separated pursuant to the Borrower’s 
separation program described in the Borrower’s Private Sector Policy Statement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement for: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 
A.1 of this Schedule unless: (i) the Borrower has appointed a manager acceptable to the 
Association for the EFF administration unit of the PIU, (ii) for each new construction site for a 
Beneficiary under Part A.3 of the Project, respectively, unless the Borrower shall have submitted 
to the Association an EIA, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, (iii) the 
Page  13
respective Beneficiary and MEF have entered into an EFF Grant Agreement in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, (iv) the respective EFF Grant  has been made in 
accordance with the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
PIM and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (v) the respective Beneficiary has deposited into 
the Project Account B, such amounts for the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, as shall be 
required and agreed upon with the Association to timely replenish Project Account B and in 
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b) 
payments under Category (6) for the purposes of Part A (2) (a), (b) and (d)  of 
the Project unless: (i) the Borrower has adopted, and does not amend in a way that may 
materially and adversely affect it, the Separation Program retrenchment plan in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; and (ii) evidence that BIGB’s shareholders have legally 
approved its liquidation in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (d) works costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (e) severance payments; (f) EFF 
Grants; and (g) operating costs, training and workshops as the Association shall determine, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing its divesture 
program, reforming its infrastructure and commercial banking sectors, outsourcing the 
Borrower’s public services, stimulating private investment, undertaking legal reform, improving 
the fiscal and regulatory business environment, and strengthening supply chains and private 
sector capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Partnerships and Private Participation 
1.
Infrastructure Reform
(a)
Telecommunications
Development of competition in the telecommunications sector, including the award of 
two cellular operating licenses, the phasing out of the international exclusivity regime and the 
complete liberalization of value added services (including Internet services), for: (i) the 
strengthening of the regulatory framework and the adoption of decrees related to interconnection, 
tariff regulation, rebalancing and universal service, and (ii) the strengthening of the 
Page  14
telecommunications department of the multi-sector regulatory agency, all through the provision 
of technical advisory services, training, and acquisition of goods.
(b)
Civil Aviation
Revision of the Civil Aviation Code, strengthening of the Civil Aviation Authority and 
repair of radar, communication and safety equipment through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training, works and acquisition of equipment. 
(c)
Water and Energy
Maintenance and rehabilitation of the power generator and continued operation of the 
Water and Energy Unit of the PIU, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
goods.
(d)
Port
Carrying out of a master plan study for the operation of the Bissau port and the creation 
of a monitoring system to improve performance of customs and port operations through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training and acquisition of equipment for the customs 
office.
(e)
Regulatory Agency
Design and operation, including the elaboration of a business plan, training, monitoring 
and management equipment, for the Borrower’s multi-sector regulatory agency for the 
Borrower’s infrastructure and utility sectors through the provision of technical advisory services, 
training and acquisition of goods.
2.
Divesture and Outsourcing
(a)
Divesture
Carrying out the Borrower’s divesture program for selected public enterprises including 
restructuring, privatization, sale and liquidation of selected public enterprises, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and severance payments for redundant staff of the 
selected enterprises. 
(b)
Liquidation of BIGB
Liquidation of BIGB through the provision of severance payments for BIGB staff and 
related technical advisory services, including for asset recovery and liquidation.
Page  15
(c)
Contracting-out Public Services
Reduction of the scope of the Borrower’s civil service by (i) assisting in retrenchment of 
selected redundant staff, (ii) the design of contracts with mechanisms to secure government 
payment of such services, and (iii) the implementation of transparent system for awarding those 
contracts,  through the provision of technical advisory services.
(d)
Retrenchment Program 
Implementation of a program designed to facilitate the retrenchment of redundant staff of 
the Borrower’s public enterprises selected for privatization, the design of policy to encourage 
workers to take over some assets through debt equity swaps and the support to the emerging 
small companies through the provision of technical advisory services, training and severance 
payments. 
3.
Equity Financing Facility
The provision of grants to Beneficiaries for the rehabilitation and investment in their 
respective capital and assets, including training.
Part B:
Investment Environment
1.
Legal Reform
Strengthening and modernizing the Borrower’s legal and judicial system with a view to 
improving its respective security, predictability, response and enforceability for private sector 
investments and  contractual transactions, through: 
(a)
harmonization of the Borrower’s business laws with OHADA, including the 
review of existing, and drafting of, new or amendments of laws and regulations, necessary to 
support private sector investment in the territory of the Borrower and increase private enterprise 
competitiveness, through the provision of technical advisory services;
(b)
development of a modern, reliable, comprehensive and accessible legal 
information system, including the translation of OHADA laws, the creation of a computerized 
database, their publication and posting on web sites; and the strengthening of the Borrower’s 
official gazette; through the acquisition of office equipment and supplies, small rehabilitations of 
office space, training and technical advisory services; 
(c)
strengthening systems for enterprise registration including the official 
commercial notary and commercial registrar, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, small rehabilitations of office space and acquisition of office equipment and supplies;
(d)
development of a modern code of conduct for judges, performance standards and 
evaluation systems for the strengthening of the court system, and modern case management 
Page  16
techniques (such as alternative dispute resolution or arbitration); through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training;
(e)
strengthening the training of judges and court personnel through training 
programs and facilities in such areas as general administration, substantive and procedural law 
(including economic law), case management, judgement writing, computer use, judicial ethics 
and performance standards; through the provision of technical advisory services; and
(f)
carrying out legal education and training programs for legal professionals, law 
teachers and students on (i) the Borrower’s business laws and regulations harmonized with 
OHADA; and (ii) new or amendments of the Borrower’s laws and regulations necessary to 
support private sector investment, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training.
2.
Business Environment
(a) 
Carrying out a detailed study of the Borrower’s tax system and a baseline survey 
of the cost of doing business in its territory, including an institutional assessment of investment 
promotion arrangements and the reform of the Borrower’s tax and customs systems, through the 
provision of technical advisory services.
(b) 
Carrying out analytical survey and updating of recent studies about the main 
economic sectors in the territory of the Borrower, the design and implementation of a bi-annual 
consultative mechanism between the private sector, stakeholders and public sector for the 
presentation and discussion of the results of these surveys and studies, through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
(c) 
Strengthening private representative associations, including the assistance to 
develop their operational business plans and the financing of performance based service 
contracts with each one of these associations, through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training.   
Part C:
Implementation and Capacity Building
Strengthening of the capacity of PIU to coordinate the implementation of the Project, 
through the acquisition of equipment, material and supplies, and provision of technical advisory 
services, training and operating costs.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  17
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 and 
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $370,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provision of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Page  18
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured from Inter Agency 
Procurement Office of the United Nations (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
Page  19
A (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
Page  20
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than sixty days after the end of each calendar semester (6 months) of 
each year of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of 
said report, provided, however, that the first report to be furnished to the Association shall cover 
the period from April 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
Page  21
the Association’s views on the matter; and
(d)  
the Borrower shall ensure that the PIU shall maintain its operations under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association including qualified and experienced management 
and staff.
2.
PIM
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall apply the procedures 
and guidelines set out in the PIM, and the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the PIM or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Part A.3 of the Project 
3.
Eligibility Criteria for EFF Grants
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no EFF Grants  shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the PIU shall have determined, on 
the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that 
the EFF Grants satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the PIM, which shall 
include the following:
(a)
the EFF Grants shall be for the purposes and activities described in Schedule 2, 
Part A.3 to this Agreement;
(b)
the EFF Grants shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(c)
the EFF Grants shall be economically, financially and technically viable in 
accordance with the standards specified in the PIM. Existing private firms in manufacturing, 
agro-processing and exportable services sector shall be eligible to apply for EFF Grants which 
shall be made on a "first-come, first-served" basis;
(d)
the EFF Grants shall be in the form of: (i) 50/50 cost sharing grants for private 
investment for equity financing, and (ii) 90/10 cost sharing for private investment for training; 
and
(e)
for an applicant to qualify for a EFF Grant, it must: (i) have a plan for building 
competitiveness; (ii) in the case of (a) investment for equity financing be prepared to contribute 
from its own resources 50% of the funds requested, and (b) investment for training be prepared 
to contribute from its own resources 10% of the funds requested; (iii) incorporate in the plan's 
design, features enabling the plan’s outputs to be measured and verified; (iv) furnish sufficient 
evidence showing that the activity to be financed from the EFF Grant is likely to strengthen and 
improve the firm's performance under its business plan; and (v) furnish with its application such 
Page  22
other evidence as the Steering Committee shall, with the prior agreement of the Association, 
reasonably request.
4.
-Steering Committee
(a)
the Borrower shall maintain in a form and with functions and staffing 
satisfactory to the Association a Steering Committee to be responsible, inter alia, for monitoring 
the overall execution of Part A.3 of the Project and approval of each proposal for an EFF Grant; 
(b)
the Steering Committee may, with the prior agreement of the Association, form 
such committees of the Steering Committee as it may consider necessary to assist it in carrying 
out of its functions under the Project; and
(c)
the Steering Committee shall, subject to such changes in membership as the 
Borrower and the Association may from time to time determine, consist of the members as listed 
in the PIM. 
5.
Terms and Conditions of EFF Grants
In financing EFF Grants, MEF shall enter into an EFF Grant Agreement with the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 per EFF Grant;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the EFF Grant  in accordance with the PIM, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the EFF Grant;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 
3
to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the EFF Grant;
(d)
the right of MEF to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in the EFF 
Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of MEF to obtain all information as the Association shall reasonably 
request regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions of the EFF Grant; and
(f)
the right of MEF to suspend or terminate the right of the private Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Credit for the EFF Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform 
Page  23
any of its obligations under the EFF Grant Agreement. 
6.          Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators specified in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than 32 months after effectiveness date, 
a
Midterm Review of the Project, which shall cover, inter alia:  (i) progress made in meeting the 
Project’s objectives; (ii) progress made in implementing the Private Sector Policy Statement; and 
(iii) overall Project performance as measured against Performance Indicators;
(c)
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a 
report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph (a) above and of Project 
implementation generally; and
(d)
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of the Project having regard 
to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (7) set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Parts A.1, A.2 (c), B and C of the Project, 
Category (6) set forth in said table in respect of Parts A.2 (a), (b) and (d) of the Project and 
Category (5) set forth in said table in respect of Part A.3 of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of FCFA 750,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account A and an amount of  
FCFA 375,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account B, pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of 
FCFA 375,000,000 for Special Account A and FCFA 187,500,000 for Special Account B,  until 
Page  24
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Page  25
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account A for Part A, B and C, excluding Part A.3 of the 
Project, and Special Account B for Part A.3 of the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
Page  26
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Progress towards the project development objectives will be assessed in terms of:
1.
Infrastructure Sector
(a)
Reforms implemented and institutional capacity to regulate private participation 
strengthened. Privatization program implemented and private investments implemented.
(b)
Sector strategies/policies approved by Borrower and implementation started.
(c)
Appropriate legislation enacted for telecommunications, civil aviation, water and  
energy sectors.
2.
Telecommunications
(a)
Competition in sector and capacity of regulator enhanced. 
(b)
Revised concession contract in place (by midterm review).
(c)
Two cellular licenses issued (one prior to midterm review).
(d)
Legal and regulatory framework established (by midterm review).
(e)
Teledensity increased (16,000 fixed lines and 20,000 cellular customers by 
2007).
3.
Civil aviation
(a)
 Revised civil aviation code in place by mid-term review.
(b)
Civil Aviation authority fully operational by 2006.
(c)
Bissau airport facilities and safety improved.
Page  27
(d)
Evidence that frequency of flights and number of passengers increased. 
4.
Water and Energy, and Port
(a)
Bidding documents for the Water and Energy sectors prepared  by 2003.
(b)
Port master plan for the Port prepared and adopted by 2005.
5.
Regulatory institution and privatization of remaining industrial and commercial PE’s, 
and EFF
(a)
Multi-sectoral regulatory agency established and operational by mid-term 
review.
(b)
Sale contracts signed and payments received for divested PE’s.
(c)
End-of-service benefits for retrenched workers paid in time in accordance with 
Government policy.
(d)
Privatization/liquidation of 33 PE’s by June 2007: (i) BIGB (liquidation) by June 
2003; (ii) 18 PE’s by mid-term review; and (iii) remaining PE’s by June 2007.
(e)
Environmental audits carried out for all identified PEs before completion of each 
transaction.
(f)
Full audits for 6 PEs; partial audits for 4 PEs.
(g)
15 viable private investments.
6.
Legal Reform
(a)
National laws modernized and revised to be compatible with OHADA. 
Publication of new laws and regulations.
(b)
Legal institutional capacity strengthened. At least 70% of judges, lawyers and 
other legal staff have been trained. Improvements in the performance of the tribunal in Bissau 
(50 percent reduction in time for issuing judgment.
Page  28
7.
Investment Climate
(a)
Action plans resulting from administrative barrier and tax studies implemented 
by mid-term review.
(b)
Supply response and competitiveness stimulated in six key sub-sectors or entry 
points (increase in domestic value-added of 50 percent) by 2007.
