Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20637
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35010; SCL-3501A; SCPD-3501S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 423.6 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SURALAYA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
June 21, 2000
Energy and Mining Sector unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective - ICR Mission - February 2000)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 1000 = US$ 0.14
US$ I = Rp. 7200
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD           -      Biological Oxygen Demand
COD           -      Chemical Oxygen Demand
DGEED         -      Directorate-General for Electricity and Energy Development
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESP           -      Electrostatic Precipitator
HGI           -      Hardgrove Grindability Index
GOI           -      Government of Indonesia
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IPP           -      Independent Power Producer
LOLP          -      Loss of Load Probability
NERC          -      North American Electric Reliability Council
MIS           -      Management Information Systems
MME           -      Ministry of Mines and Energy
OPRC          -      Operational Procurement Review Committee
PJB I         -      Java Bali Power Company I
PLN           -      State Electricity Corporation
PPA           -      Power Purchase Agreement
PPE           -      Engineering Services Center of PLN
PSR           -      Project Summary Report
QAG           -      Quality Advisory Group
ROR           -      Rate of Return
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Kurt Schenk, EASEG



-'-I..   .                   p
,X~4'e
,'' , e ¢ @~3






CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
6. Sustainability                                                                  10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27
Annex 8. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire                                                  28
Annex 9. Borrower's Completion Report                                              36
Map:  IBRD No. 2361OR






Project ID: P003916                                        Project Name: SURALAYA THERMAL POWER
Team Leader: Kurt F. Schenk                                TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date. June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SURALAYA THERMAL POWER                          LIC/TFNNumber: CPL-35010;
SCL-350 IA;
SCPD-350 IS
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/30/90                                 Effective:  12/23/92           12/23/92
Appraisal:  06/13/91                                   MTR:
Approval:  06/30/92                                 Closing: 09/30/99             09/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Republic of Indonesia/State Electricity Corporation (PT PLN (Persero))
Other Partners: ADB, KfW, Export Credit
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:      Mark Baird                                 M. Haug
Sector Manager:       Yoshihiko Sumi                             P. R. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:   Kurt Schenk                               V.P. Thakor
ICR Primary Author:   Kurt Schenk; Yuling Zhou;
Selina Wai Sheung Shum;
Thomas Walton; Mariko Ogawa.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report dated June 3, 1992 were to: (a)
expand PLN's generating capacity in Java; (b) promote the economic use of coal for electricity generation;
(c) develop PLN's institutional capacity to operate and maintain thermal power plants; and (d) strengthen
PLN's financial capacity.
The objectives were clearly defined and consistent with GOI's strategy of meeting the country's energy
requirements at least cost, by substituting oil consumption by alternative more economical fuels (such as
coal, gas and hydropower), and by promoting the environmentally sustainable production and utilization of
energy resources. The objectives were also in line with the Bank's energy sector strategy (to satisfy unmet
electricity demand and to promote decentralization) as well as its previous work in Indonesia, in particular,
the financing of the first four units of the Suralaya Tlhermal Power Plant, the first coal-fired power plant in
Indonesia, through the Eight, Ninth, Twelfth and Fourteenth Power projects (Loans 1708-IND, 1872-IND,
2214-END, and 2243-IND).
The objectives were clear, relevant and largely realistic. As part of the Bank's sectoral dialogue with GOI
and PLN, an Electricity Tariff Automatic Adjustment Mechanism was introduced by Presidential Decree in
October 1994 (Keppres 68/94). In addition, a Financial Advisor, financed by the Project, was hired in
August 1997 to advise PLN as PLN's financial situation deteriorated rapidly due to the financial crisis in
the region and the imminent economic collapse in Indonesia.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were maintained throughout the Project.
3.3 Original Components:
The original design of the Project included thle following components: (a) construction of 3x600 MW
coal-fired units (Nos. 5, 6 and 7) at Suralaya, and a 5OOkV transmission line from Cilegon to Cibinong
with associated substations, to enable evacuation of power to the demand centers in Java; (b) consulting
services for engineering design and construction supervision of the proposed units: (c) feasibility study for
a high voltage submarine cable link between Java and Sumatra; (d) engineering and design of a thermal
power plant at Banjarmasin in South Kalimantan; (e) consulting services for institutional development; and
(f) training of PLN's staff in public utility practices.
The site for the Suralaya power plant was developed to accommodate sevenl units. Units 1-4, each with
400 MW capacity, were commissioned between August 1985 and October 1989 with financing from Bank
loans. Although the original size for units 5-7 was 500 MW each, subsequent studies, including an
Environmental Impact Assessment, showed that the optimum unit size should be 600 MW. This change
was consistent with the faster than expected power demand growth in Java and also allowed best utilization
of the potential of the Suralaya site. The project also provided for reinforcement of the 500 kV grid so that
the total 3,400 MW at the Suralaya site could be transmitted to the major load centers in Java.
3.4 Revised Components:
The above components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was selected by the World Bank's Quality Advisory Group (QAG) for a Rapid Supervision
Assessment in July 1997, which concluded that the project had a sound design, that procurement,
relationships with the Borrower and other stakeholders, and the realism of the Project's performance
- 2 -



ratings, were highly satisfactory. The Project received a satisfactory overall assessment with a highly
satisfactory focus on development impact. This ICR also rates the quality of entry as "satisfactory".
At appraisal, the technical risks and project management risks associated with the Project, including
possible delays in implementation, were assessed as low. This assessment was made in line with PLN's
general technical capacity and the extensive experience gained from building the Paiton coal-fired power
plant and the first four units of Suralaya. The Project did benefit from excellent project management and
all the units were completed either on or ahead of schedule. Environmental risks were also adequately
assessed in the EIA and mitigation measures proposed and implemented. The following risks were,
however, not identified at appraisal perhaps due to overly optimistic expectations:
*   Commercial risks associated with coal supply: according to the original arrangement, coal was to be
delivered from only one supplier. However, due to various reasons, the main supplier could in fact
only meet about 80% of the coal needs, thus the balance has to be obtained from other sources.
Multi-suppliers caused variations in the coal quality, which in turn has impaired the efficient operation
of Suralaya.
*   Risks related to under-utilization of Suralaya: although the Project did achieve the benefits of
generating electricity at least cost and increasing levels of reliability in Java-Bali, it achieved such
benefits to a lesser-than-expected degree due to over-capacity and decreased load growth levels in
PLN's Java-Bali system.
In addition, the financial crisis that hit the country in 1997, which was beyond GOI/PLN's control and
could not be foreseen at Project appraisal, affected the Project adversely. It caused substantial deterioration
of PLN's financial performance (thus resulting in liquidity problems and shortage of counterpart funding,
which, fortunately, did not adversely affect project implementation as the Project was largely completed by
that time).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite the achievement of all physical objectives, the overall outcome of the Project is rated as marginally
unsatisfactory mainly because of: (i) PLN's financial capacity was not strengthened during the
implementation of the Project; on the contrary, it deteriorated substantially during the late years of the
Project due to the financial crisis; and (ii) low economic viability of the Project. The lower rates of return
are due primarily to delayed realization of the incremental energy sales revenues, and the lower average
tariff given the sharp depreciation of the Rupiah. The achievement of the Project's objectives is detailed
below.
Objective 1: To expand PLN's electricity generating capacity through completion of the Suralaya
Thermal Plant. With the successful completion and operation of the 3x600MW units 5-7 at Suralaya,
this objective has been satisfactorily achieved. The completed Suralaya Thermal Power Station, with a
total installed capacity of 3,400 MW, is a major contributor to economic development in Java and to
employment in the local area.
Objective 2: To promote the economic use of coalfor electricity generation. This objective has been
satisfactorily achieved. Coal is now supplied from several coal mines in the country on a long- or
short-term basis through open bidding. The increasing use of coal spurred the development of competitive
coal mining facilities, which are also contributing to increased coal exports. In addition, compared to coal,
- 3 -



oil is more exportable and contributor to value added. Therefore, substitution of oil with coal as fuel for
power generation promotes the economic use of coal. At present, Indonesia's hydrocarbon sector produces
about 500 million barrels of crude oil and condensate a year, and 3 trillioni cubic feet of natural gas, both
for domestic consumption and export. This generates about US$ 7.5 billion per annum, which represents
27% of the Government's total revenues and 7 % of GDP, at the current exchange rate. GOI's vision for the
hydrocarbon sector includes (i) the ability of meeting the domestic demand for oil and gas, as well as to
provide fuel for Indonesia's economic growth, (ii) maximize the generation of revenue for the country, (iii)
ensure security of supply, and (iv) develop national capabilities in the sector.
Objective 3: To develop PLN's institutional capacity to operate and maintain thermal power plants.
This objective has been achieved through successful completion of the associated TA activities. In fact, the
achievement is beyond the objective as stated: not only the targeted 55 engineers were trained in efficient
utility management including power plant engineering and design, as well as operation and maintenance
aspects of large, modem thermal power planits; but also studies were conducted in organization and human
resource planning as well as benchmarking. In addition, a study was completed leading to the
establishment of a more autonomous unit within PLN responsible for electricity transmission in Java-Bali.
Objective 4: To strengthen PLN's financial capacity. This objective was not achieved, since PLN's
financial position has weakened dramatically during the tenure of the Project. Since 1994, prior to the
onset of the crisis, PLN was moderately profitable but nonetheless was unable to achieve the target ROR
level of 8%. However, PLN was able to comply with the debt service coverage covenant of 1.5 times until
the final crisis in 1997. Four main factors contributed to this outcome: (i) failure of GOI to implement
needed tariff increases; (ii) high cost of power purchased from IPPs; (iii) lack of competitive pressure on
PLN to drive costs down; and (iv) the financial crisis and resulting depreciation of the Rupiah that hit the
country in 1997. Currently, PLN is unable to service its debts to GOI and to meet its payment obligations
to IPPs.
Since the financial crisis in 1997, PLN has become technically insolvent; its profitability, liquidity and
capital structure have continued to deteriorate. PLN's financial difficulties are attributable, in part, to the
sharp decrease of its average revenue in US dollar terms from the pre-crisis level (7 US¢/kWh in 1996 to
2.8 US¢/kWh in 1999) while the lion share of its expenses (fuel, power purchase costs and debt service)
are denominated in foreign currency. Mainly due to concerns over political repercussions, the tariff
adjustments anticipated earlier did not materialize in 1999. Further, fixed obligations under IPP contracts
are increasing rapidly, despite over capacity of power generation for Java Bali system for at least the short
term. Consequently, PLN reported operating loss of Rp. 5.5 trillion (US$ 0.7 billion) and its rate of return
on revalued net fixed assets was negative 9. .% in 1999. Its net loss amounted to Rp. 11.4 trillion (US$ 1.4
billion), thus continuing the rapid erosion of its equity (by a total of 46% over the past two years). In
1999, GOI supported to help PLN cover its cashflow deficit, amounted to (a) Rp. 2.3 trillion for equity
investment in PLN's capital expenditures; and (b) Rp. 11.6 trillion for deferred debt service due to GOI. In
sum, government support for PLN in 1999 totaled Rp. 13.9 trillion [or US$1.7 billion, increased from Rp.
10.7 trillion (or US$1 billion) in 1998].
Based on GOI's agreement with the IMF on rationalization of energy prices in January 2000, PLN's
average tariff was increased by about 29% effective April 1, 2000, with small consumers (<900 VA) not
subjected to any tariff increase. At the same time, its petroleum fuel costs would also be increased. For the
year 2000, PLN's average tariff is projected to increase by about 33% to 293 Rp/kWh (or about US
3.9¢/kWh); its net loss is projected to decrease to Rp. 7.7 trillion mainly due to increases of revenue and
government subsidy, and decrease of interest payment, despite increases of payment obligations to IPPs of
about Rp. 10 trillion. Under the scenario that IPPs will be paid at the "best estimated negotiated price"
-4 -



(about Rp. 4.2 trillion), total government support needed is estimated at Rp. 16.5 trillion (or about US$ 2.4
billion), including increased GOI cash subsidy to about Rp. 3.9 trillion, plus the aforementioned deferral of
debt service due to GOI and equity for PLN's capital expenditures.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Project completed satisfactorily all the components as stated in the SAR. The design of the Project
was generally satisfactory except that there was no concrete Project component in support of the objective
to strengthen PLN's financial position.
Construction of three 600 MW coal-fired units at Suralaya: The achievement of this component is
rated as highly satisfactorily. Suralaya units 5-7 were built under budget and ahead of schedule and with
exemplary project management. SAR dates for commercial operation for units 5-7 were 6/97, 12/97 and
6/98 respectively (i.e., a six-month interval), while the actual dates were 6/97, 9/97 and 12/97, on or ahead
of schedule. The 500 kV transmission line between Cilegon and Cibinong and associated substations, were
commissioned without any major problems. Routing of the line was selected so as not to disrupt human
settlements, agricultural land or forest areas. Land acquisition for the tower footings was done smoothly,
with compensation at market prices.
Engineering, Design, and Construction Supervision. Project Management was exemplary, with smooth
cooperation among all the parties concerned. The contract for engineering services was awarded on
December 13, 1991 to a foreign firm in association with a local firn, which provided experienced and
professional assistance to PLN through specialized technical advice, transfer of knowledge, design review,
contract management and construction supervision and so on. The project team was adequately staffed.
Throughout the Project, the consulting firm overcame many difficulties (including being not paid on time
and taking the risk of working before approval of contract amendment - refer to Section 10) and worked
closely with PLN both in the design office established in Jakarta and in the construction office on the plant
site. The associated Project engineering firm also benefited from the new technology introduced at
Suralaya.
Feasibility study for a high voltage submarine cable link between Java and Sumatra. The output of this
Project component is deemed satisfactory. The study, finalized in 1994, concluded that it is technically and
economically feasible to establish a HVAC link of 200 MW capacity between Java and Sumatra, which
could be converted to an IHVDC link at a later date. The study concluded that the link could be used, in the
medium term, to supply the Tanjung Karang area in Soutlh Sumatra with power available in Java, and in
the longer term, to exchange power between the two islands on a limited basis. Although the proposed link
may still be attractive to PLN at present, the feasibility study would need to be updated to consider the
changing supply-demand balance situation in the region taking advantage of the economies of scale (both in
terms of the cost of new capacity and the cost of energy) of the larger generating plant that is installed on
the Java-Bali system.
Engineering and Design for a Thermal Power Plant at Banjarmasin. This activity was satisfactorily
concluded. It provided the design basis for the Banjarmasin coal-fired plant (2x65 MW), a component
being financed under the on-going Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project (Loan 3761-IND).
Institutional Development and Training. This component was completed satisfactorily. The TA activities
conducted under the Project facilitated strengthening of PLN's organization, enhancing its institutional
efficiency, and the establishment of more autonomous business units. In particular the conclusions and
recommendations of the Study on Human Resource Development and Planning are largely included in
- 5 -



PLN's reform and restructuring plans, of "hic'   Performance Appraisal System has already been
implemented. An internal regulation has been I   d by PLN on the Remuneration System, which is
expected to be implemented soon, once its impac  - the Pension Plan is thoroughly reviewed. In addition,
competencies and gaps have been defined as parn  human resource development; special training has been
provided for mid- and top-level managers. The Human Resource Information System has been completed,
and Human Resource Planning is being undertaken in parallel with the ongoing Corporate Restructuring of
PLN.
Senior Financial/Corporate Advisor. A Senior Advisor to the President Director of PLN was hired in
August 1997 for a period of two years to assist PLN in coping with the financial crisis. Although it is
difficult to assess the impact of the advisor in assisting PLN's President Director in the decision making
process, the advisor has played a strategic role in assisting in coming to grips with the restructuring
process of PLN, and in sorting out various pressing issues such as those associated with the IPPs. PLN
has stated that it was very satisfied with the advice obtained.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retur,:
The Project was part of PLN's dynamic least cost expansion program for the Java-Bali system. The EIRR
calculated for the Project at appraisal was based on the incremental economic costs and benefits associated
with PLN's investment time slice corresponding to the Project's implementation period (between 1991/92
and 1997/98) of this least cost program. According to the appraisal projections, the EIRR was 20 percent
with consumer surplus, or 11 percent without consumer surplus. The EIRR was recalculated with the same
methodology and for the same time slice but based on projections at Project completion. The ex-post EIRR
was 12 percent with consumer surplus, and would be negative without taking into account consumer
surplus, much lower than the appraisal estimates, indicating that PLN's investment program during the time
slice may not be economically viable. Major contributing factors include: (i) PLN's average tariff at
current level (about 3 USO/kWh) is well below the pre-crisis level (about 7-8 US¢/kWh, which would allow
full cost recovery and a reasonable return on investment); (ii) reduced electricity sales; and (iii) impact of
IPPs with their high levelized tariffs of power purchase. Recalculating the economic benefits with PLN's
latest projected tariff increase (to 8.9 US¢/k;Wh in 1991 constant price by 2003 and beyond) resulted in an
EIRR of 19 percent with consumer surplus, and 8 percent without consumer surplus.
The SAR also presented a generation cost analysis for different sources of power (i.e. 600 MW coal, 600
MW combined cycle (CC), 600 MW nuclear, and 55 MW geothermal) for the Java-Bali system. The
analysis was repeated during preparation of this ICR (but excluding the 600 MW nuclear alternative, as it
is not viable for Indonesia at present). The levelized cost of generation over the assumed lifetime for the
three altematives is as shown below. Even though PLN's Java-Bali investment program for the time slice
corresponding to the implementation period of the Project (which was an integral part of the investment
program) is not economically viable as mentioned above, it is clear that the coal-fired Suralaya Project is
still the most economical among the alternatives available.
Levelized Busbar Cost
(0/kWh)
600 MW   600 MW      55 MW
Description             Coal       CC      Geothermal
Capital Cost             2.0       1.7        1.8
Fuel Cost                1.2      1.8         4.0
O & M Fixed             0.5       0.4         0.4
O & M Variable          0.06      0.09       0.20
Total Generation Cost   3.7       4.0         6.4
- 6 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was neither calculated at project appraisal, nor at project completion.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact of the Project is rated as substantial. As discussed above
(paras. 4.1 and 4.2), the Project provided a framework for greater decentralization of management, and the
creation of more autonomous business units, as well as human resources development and planning.
Although some of the recommendations have not been implemented at the time of financial crisis, they have
been incorporated into the Corporate and Financial Restructuring Program that PLN is presently
undertaking with assistance from both the Bank and ADB. PLN understands that the sooner it introduces
the marked improvements to the way in which it manages, develops and rewards its human resources, the
better it will be able to introduce and sustain improved levels of company performance which the current
economic crisis will demand as the only way of staying in business. In addition, the Financial Advisor
provided impartial advice at the time PLN needed it most. The training of 55 engineers has been favorable;
their expertise is now being used by PLN successfully in the design, engineering and construction of
coal-power plants.
4.6 Environmental impact
The power station, situated about 100 km west of Jakarta, was built initially with an infrastructure to
support the installation of seven power generating units. For an installed capacity of 3,400 MW and an
annual coal consumption of about 9 million tons, Suralaya has a significant impact on the environment.
However, Suralaya is equipped with appropriate environmental mitigation measures to take into account
the following: (a) thermal pollution caused by cooling water discharge to the sea; (b) water pollution caused
by discharge of effluents from the plant; (c) air pollution caused by particulate matter, sulfur dioxide
(S02), and nitrous oxides; and (d) disposal of plant solid wastes including bottom and fly ash, sludge,
garbage, etc. The plant uses a 1.7 km discharge channel to reduce impact of heated effluent discharges on
coal and marine habitats.
To minimize the likelihood of adverse impacts on ambient air quality, low sulfur coal was specified at
appraisal (0.5% total S). The coal being obtaining from the PT Bukit Asam (80% of plant supply) had an
average total sulfur content of 0.25% in 1999. The remainder (20%) came from three other sources, only
one of which exceeded the 0.5% limit. Electrostatic precipitators (ESP) for Unit 5-7 were designed for a
particulate removal efficiency of 99.5% and have been meeting that standard. Stack emissions for S02
and NOx from Units 5 - 7 have been consistently within standards during the year of data examined
(1999).
Influent cooling water temperature averaged 29 °C during 1999, and the average outfall temperature was
34.2 °C, well below the limit of 40.0 'C. Effluent from the sewage treatment plant contained negligible
concentrations of BOD, COD and total dissolved solids concentration, easily complying with standards.
Boiler blow down water and water treatment plant effluent were subject to the same standards (pH, copper,
nickel and iron). Data for 1999 show no compliance problems. Effluent from the oil separators was within
standards according to the 1999 annual averages. Runoff and leachate from the ash disposal area are
collected in a settling pond that is in urgent need of dredging. In some sections it has no freeboard, and the
berm has been overtopped in heavy rains this year. The pond effluent is sampled for 11 metals. According
to samples taken in August 1999, the settling pond supernatant met all metal standards and the Suralaya
flyash is not considered to be toxic waste. Chlorine is used to prevent growth of algae and other biomass in
the plant cooling system. The free chlorine concentration is maintained at 0.3 mg/l. Annual monitoring by
Gadja Madah University does not reveal any significant deterioration in the marine ecosystem that can be
attributed to Suralaya. The quality of nearby coral reefs has declined slightly, but the reason identified by
-7 -



the scientists is sedimentation caused by tree-cutting and land development
Ash handling, sale for reuse, and disposal are the major environmental clhallenges the plant faces. Whereas
the plant (units 1-7) had at one time been selling as much as 70% of flyash for reuse, only 10-15% is
currently being sold. The ash disposal site is therefore filling more rapidly, but it is still expected to have
capacity until 2007-8 even if flyash sales dc not improve. Gadja Madah University is investigating a range
of new flyash use options for PLN. In the meantime, the disposal site needs road improvement,
compaction, and other actions to stabilize the slope of the piles which have exhibited a tendency to slide in
heavy rain.
As predicted at appraisal, the construction of the transmission lines did not prove to have any
environmental problem. The routing of the lines did not disrupt human settlements, nor agricultural land or
forest areas. PLN paid market prices for the tower footings acquired. There were no resettlement issues
associated with the project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or inplementing agency:
The economic crisis that hit the country in 1997 has impacted substantially the financial situation of PLN.
The sharp depreciation of the Rupiah greatly increased the cost to PLN of its US$-denominated long-term
payment obligations. These include debt service payments on foreign loans on-lent by Government,
take-or-pay fuel supply agreements for gas and geothermal steam (backed by standby letters of credits
issued by state banks), and take-or-pay power purchase agreements with IPPs (backed by "comfort" letters
issued by Government). As a result, PLN is currently unable to fully service its debt and to meet its
payment obligations to IPPs.
The crisis has also affected the electricity demand in the country. PLN's previously rapid sales growth,
particularly on Java, slowed considerably, leaving it with a mounting excess of baseload generation
capacity as new plants came on stream. A lower demand growth rate and attendant reduction in sales
growth rate combined with the current low average tariff have decidedly affected the economics of the
Project. As the demand picks up, coal quality improves (see para 5.3), and other efficiency measures are
implemented (see para 6. 1), the capacity factors of the units will equal or exceed the benchmark upon
which the economic analysis was based. There are already some improvements in capacity factors in 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(a) The Pace of Sector Reform has proceeded at a much slower pace than anticipated. A technical
assistance activity, undertaken in 1996 under Cirata 11 project (Ln 3602-IND), provided a set of
recommendations which served as a blueprint for Sector Reform and Restructuring. The recommendations
of this technical assistance provided the underpinnings for the Government's Power Sector Restructuring
Policy, which was launched in August 1998. The Policy calls for far reaching changes in the power sector,
including the unbundling of PLN and subsequent privatization in phases. It is expected that the Policy
framework will be instrumental in providing a sound foundation of PLN's and the sector's medium and
longer-term viability. To promote the gains so far achieved, the Bank is providing timely technical
assistance (under Loan 3978-IND) for corpo:rate and financial restructuring of PLN. The Financial
Advisor which was funded under this project, also provided timely input to PLN in this critical time.
(b)    Tariff adjustments: In addition to the financial crisis, GOI's continued failure to approve the
needed tariff increases greatly contributed to the deterioration of PLN's financial position.
-8 -



(c)    Change in Customs Clearance Procedures: In October 1995, the GOI introduced change in
customs regulations with the import master list and the authority under which it needs to be certified before
the customs authorities release the items being imported under the list. This change, introduced
retroactively without consideration of the impairment it could cause in the implementation of ongoing
projects, resulted in several critical steam generator components and other materials being held up for
customs clearance for much longer than before; thus precious erection time was lost. Although Unit 5 was
not significantly affected since imported equipment had already been delivered to the site, it affected Units
6 and 7. Generally speaking, the Project would have been completed earlier had the regulation change not
been made.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a)    Good Project Management. Project planning, management, and coordination provided by PLN
and the other parties involved were exemplary. The Project was implemented by an extensive critical path
schedule which controlled engineering, procurement, manufacturing, construction and commissioning
activities. Despite the factors (as discussed above and below) that have affected the project
implementation, the Project was commissioned ahead of schedule. The timely completion of the Project
also reflects PLN's overall strong technical capability as well as the experience gained from the earlier
Bank financed thermal power projects (Paiton and Units 1-4 of Suralaya).
(b)   Technical Issues
3 Fire in the Secondary Air Heaters of Unit 5. During commissioning ol September 22, 1996 (due to
an unexpected trip of the station service transformer), a fire broke out in Unit 5, causing a two and half
month delay to its commercial operation. The Contractor accepted full responsibility for the incident
and provided all repairs at no additional cost to PLN. The availability of duplicate spare parts for Unit
7 was instrumental in minimizing the schedule impact on Unit 5. Units 6 and 7 were fortunately
unaffected by this incident.
*   Temperature in DCIS and Turbine Hall. Shortly after commissioning Unit 5-7, it was noted that the
temperature in the DCIS and the Turbine Hall was higher than specifications, which could lead to
potential technical problems. Additional work was therefore needed by the Contractor to bring the
temperature within specifications. Though taking longer than expected time, the issue was solved
satisfactorily before loan closing.
* Black Start Capability. Although the original design for Suralaya did not require black-start
capability, subsequent events during a serious blackout in April 1997 made it necessary to provide
black-start capability. To this end, 2x20 MW gas turbines have been installed at the site.
*   Coal Quality. According to the original agreement, all coal supply for Suralaya should have been
obtained from one local supplier. Apparently due to unsatisfactory prices in the domestic market, this
supplier is presently supplying only 80% of the contracted quantity. The balance is then procured in the
spot market from several other suppliers. While this arrangement allows some limited competition on
coal supply, it also presents some technical problems as regards coal quality due to the variable nature
of the coal characteristics of the various suppliers (i.e. calorific value, ash content, sulfur content,
nitrogen, grindability). The substandard quality of the coal is impairing somewhat the efficient
operation of Suralaya. The Bank has persistently requested PLN to deal with the contract breach by
the main supplier as well as coal quality.
-9-



(c)    PLN's Excess Reserve Capacity. In the face of double digit sales growth rates in the 90's and
apprehension of having to face power outages and the attendant high cost of i. rruptions of service, PLN's
planning approach was to maintain an overexpanded system in Java-Bali, that is, one with large regional
reserve margins. This was justified on the basis that a high reserve margin was necessary to avoid the
costs of power interruptions to thle economy, and to hedge against the risk of unreliability of existing
thermal plants, and the possibility of implementation delays, particularly on the commissioning of
transmission lines and substations (i.e. about 10 months for power plant and 13 months for transmission
projects). Under subsequent loans, a generating capacity margin covenant was introduced to request PLN
to take all such actions as shall be necessary to reduce the realized reserve margin in the Java-Bali System
to 30% by December 31, 1999 (including present IPP commitments in Java-Bali, the capacity reserve
margin was over 45% on loan closing). This covenant has not been complied with. It is clear that
committed private power additions and the reduction of sales growth rates will not allow PLN to achieve a
reasonable level of reserve capacity margin (i.e. 20-25% range) till the 2002-4 time frame. The annualized
carrying costs of the excess capacity have been variously estimated to vary between US$ 150 - 400 million.
In light of its financial woes, PLN has started to implement an under-planning approach based on1 more
realistic demand projections.
(d)    Timely Action on Counterpart Fund in. During the last stages of Project implementation in 1997,
the economic crisis and PLN financial difficulties were affecting the Project, particularly as regards
counterpart funding. The Project was restructured with unnecessary loan proceeds canceled and the Loan
Agreement amended to allow for 100% of local financing (i.e. Bank loan disbursement percentage for
certain local expenditures to increase from 65% to 100% excluding taxes) effective from April 1, 1997 and
October 31, 1999. This timely action relieved considerably the pressure on1 PLN to pay the contractor's
invoices and allowed the Project to be comp. eted with no delays.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The estimated total project cost at appraisal (excluding interest during construction) was $2,024.5 million.
The latest estimate of the actual project cost is $1,453.1 million equivalent, resulting in a cost under-run of
about 28.2%. This cost under run was achieved largely due to: (a) competition under Bank ICB
procedures; (b) world-wide decline in equipmnent and materials; and (c) conservative cost estimates.
Including interest during construction, the total actual project financing required was $1,602.7 million (vs.
$2,360.5 million at appraisal), of which, Banik loan provided $299.5 million (vs. $433.6 at appraisal) and
GOI/PLN provided $424.6 million (vs. $813.8 million at appraisal), and the balance of $878.6 million (vs.
$1,113.1 million at appraisal) from other financiers (including ADB and export credits).
The original amount of the Bank loan was $423.6 million. At the requests of the borrower, two partial loan
cancellations were made during project implementation in August 1996 and August 1998 with respective
amounts of $100 million and $32.2 million; resulting in the revised loan amount of $294.1 million. The
final disbursement is $282.2 million; and the undisbursed balance of $9.2 million will be canceled upon
closure of the loan account.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Due to the economic crisis in the country and PLN's deteriorated financial situation, the sustainability of
the Project objectives appears to be uncertain. Unless the financial situation of PLN improves in the short
to medium term, the sustainability of the Project may be impaired through perhaps lack of maintenance
- 1 0 -



budget at PLN/PJB 1, deterioration of the transmission system to evacuate power from Suralaya, and
dissipation of the commitmnent for reform and restructuring, on which the restoration of PLN's financial
viability rests.
Over the short to medium term, PLN is facing the challenge to cope with a difficult period of transition,
within the context of a highly uncertain operating environment that is to a certain extent beyond the control
of the company. With a view to restoring the financial sustainability of the sector, GOI publicly launched a
Power Sector Restructuring Policy in August 1998. International consultants (financed under the Second
Power Transmission and Distribution Project, Loan 3978-IND) are expected to be mobilized shortly to
assist GOI/PLN in the implementation of the corporate and financial restructuring of PLN. Within the
context of GOI's restructuring policy, various remedial measures have recently been initiated by GOI/PLN
to put the company on the road to financial recovery, including: (a) expenditure reduction and efficiency
enhancement; (b) tariff rationalization; (c) rationalization of IPP contracts; (d) debt relief, and (e) debt
restructuring. Under the Presidential Decree No. 166 dated December 18, 1999, a ministerial level
committee for the restructuring of PLN was set up and chaired by the Coordinating Minister of Economy,
Finance and Industry. Other members of the committee include four ministers (Mining and Energy,
Finance, State Enterprise and Foreign Affairs). However, the degree and pace of PLN's financial recovery
remain unclear at this point.
On the institutional side, the policy framework established in August 1998 for sector reform, which
provides the blueprint for sectoral restructuring, is expected to facilitate a reversal PLN's dramatic
downturn in financial viability. Moreover, it is expected that the framework will also be instrumental in
providing a sound foundation for the medium and longer-term viability of the sector as a whole and of PLN
in particular. In addition, PLN is starting to institute some changes in the way it develops and rewards
human resources, which is expected to have a positive impact on PLN's performance.
In addition, PLN is implementing a system-wide Efficiency Improvement Program to improve the
availability and heat rates of generating units, as well as reduce the duration time of inspection and extend
the interval between inspections. As a result, the cost savings at PJBI (which is responsible for operating
of the Suralaya) alone were expected to be Rp. 54.9 billion ($7.3 million equivalent) in 1999. The effect of
this program is also felt in Unit 5 where the realized availability in 1999 was 98% (compared to a NERC
Standard of 81%), and the heat rate was reduced from 2,590 Kcal/kWh in 1997 to 2,478 Kcal/kWh in
1999. The target heat rate is 2,310 Kcal/kWh.
Technically, Suralaya Thennal Power Plant is of good quality and the generation units have operated at
high availability since commissioning. Suralaya is well maintained under a predictive maintenance regime
(as opposed to time-based maintenance) that has been recently introduced. The average plant availability
for Suralaya units 5-7 in 1999 was 80% (98% for Unit 5, 77% for Unit 6, and 69% for Unit 7) compared
to 75% in 1998. As of March 2000, average plant capacity factors have improved over those in previous
years, with values of (for 3 months only): 64% for Unit 5; 76% for Unit 6, and 68% for Unit 7, slightly
lower than the 70% target, due to a number of causes, including unit deratings caused by bad coal quality;
scheduled maintenance; excess capacity; and reduced demand. As regards excess capacity, PLN
generation assets are expected to be fully utilized by 2001 to maintain an LOLP of I day/year, at which
time additional demand would need to be met by IPPs alone as PLN does not have any new generation
project in the pipeline. Industrial sales growth rate was about 4% in 1999, which bodes well for economic
recovery and the full utilization of Suralaya.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
- 11 -



All Units 5-7 completed under the Project lhave been handed over to PJB 1 for operation and maintenance.
All the units are now fully operational. PJB1 is one of the few relatively autonomous generation
subsidiaries under PLN and has the technical capability to operate and maintain the units at Suralaya,
which is perhaps PLN's most important power plant in Java-Bali integrated system. However, PJB 1
budget highly depends on PLN's bulk power purchase tariff (about 155 Rp/kWh at present), which,
according to PJB 1, may not be sufficient to cover costs at present. It is to noted, however, that under the
Power Sector Restructuring Policy for corporate and financial restructuring of PLN, the optimal number
and composition of independent generating companies, or Gencos, is to be reviewed, given the
Government's objectives conceming competitive markets operations and privatization. In the context of the
on-going corporate and financial restructuring of PLN, a different entity other than PJB 1 may be
responsible in the future for the operation and maintenance of the Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Identification of the Project components and analysis of technical, financial, environmental, and economic
issues during project preparation and appraisal were satisfactory. The Project objectives fitted well with the
prevailing sectoral objectives. Project preparation and appraisal were comprehensive. The procurement
and other implementation arrangements were adequate. The development of an environmental management
plan for Suralaya was thorough and provided the basis for the clear-cut and fair agreements reached during
negotiations.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the Project is rated as highly satisfactory. 12 supervision missions (including the ICR
mission) were fielded in combination with missions for other projects/activities, at about 2 missions per
year on average. Timilg of supervision mission was generally satisfactory and the duration of the missions
was well planned, taking into account the sectoral work that went along with the mission objectives.
Although the Task Managers were changed three times during Project implementation, this did not hamper
the continuity and effectiveness of the supervision efforts because of overlap of team members. Project
implementation progress was reported on a timely and regular basis throughout the life of the Project.
Procurement was handled satisfactorily, although the problem with Memorandum Number 5 (refer to
Section 10) was allowed to fester too long without taking a final decision for a line of action. The IP
(Implementation Progress) was either rated "Highly Satisfactory" or "Satisfactory", while the DO
(Development Objective) rating was downgraded to 'unsatisfactory' when the financial situation of PLN
deteriorated in 1997, and was kept so till loam closing (September 30, 1999).
The Bank took proactive actions on loan proceeds cancellations once loan savings were identified; the Bank
also responded quickly to PLN's deteriorated financial situation by restructuring the Project and amending
the Loan Agreement to allow increase of the Bank loan disbursement percentage for local expenditure
(excluding payment of taxes) to 100% from April 1998 to January 2000, which relieved considerably the
pressure on PLN to pay the contractors. Fortunately, the wrenching economic crisis in the region did not
affect the completion of the Project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank maintained continuous contact witlh PLN
and other stakeholders which provided the basis for taking quick actions when required. In addition, the
Bank's dialogue with PLN and the Government focused on much more than the agreed objectives of the
specific project and provided a significant contribution to the identification of the sector issues which were
discussed regularly with PLN and Government.
- 12 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory during Project preparation. PLN prepared the
Project with excellent technical quality and realistic implementation arrangements. The Project fit well into
PLN's priority investment program and was in line with the Govemment's overall sector strategy.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govemment's performance during implementation was deemed satisfactory, although marginally so.
Counterpart funds were made available in a timely manner except close to project completion when the
Asian crisis was in full swing and PLN's financial performance was deteriorating drastically. GOI
officially launched in August 1998, though later than expected, the Power Sector Restructuring Policy,
which provided the framework to restructuring of the power sector including PLN. During the project
implementation, three issues related to the Government should be noted: (a) GOI did not approve the tariff
increase as required due to political sensitivity, which substantially affected PLN's financial situation; (b)
GOI has not been proactive in addressing the issues of under-capitalization of PLN, and (c) a change in the
clearance procedures introduced by GOI early 1996 caused problems in obtaining customs clearance for
several critical components, with the result that precious plant erection time was lost trying to sort out the
problem. Fortunately, this did not affect the timely completion of the project as a whole.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of PLN is rated as highly satisfactory on the technical side with highly effective Project
coordination with consultants, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors. It implemented the Project ahead
of the schedule and below the budget. PLN's procurement activities were fairly on time.
However, as discussed in Section 4, PLN's financial performance has not been satisfactory. It's financial
position has deteriorated dramatically during the tenure of the Project, though mainly due to factors
(including the financial crisis, high cost of IPPs, and GOI's unwillingness to approve required tariff
increase) beyond its control. As a result, PLN was unable at any time during the Project period to fully
comply with the financial covenants established for it under the project.
Overall, the performance of the implementing agency is rated as satisfactory.
7. 7 Overall Borrower perJormance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The GOI and PLN were fully committed to the
successful completion of the Project on the physical construction side; and the GOI launched the important
policy framework for power sector reform; however, PLN's financial position deteriorated substantially.
8. Lessons Learned
* In addition to quality at entry, full commitment from both the borrower and the implementing agency,
as well as close coordination among the key players (suppliers, contractors, consultants, donors,
owners), good project management, and extensive supervision are key factors, contributed to the
successful and timely completion of the Project.
* Bank quick action to respond to the financial crisis situation by increasing the loan disbursement
percentages for local expenditures was instrumental in avoiding any potential delays due to shortage of
counterpart funds.
* Project cost estimates should be more realistic and robust, to avoid large amounts of cancellation of the
- 13 -



Bank loan (about 33% of the Bank original loan amount was canceled under the Project).
*   The high cost of the IPPs has been a contributing factor to the failure of the Project to meet its financial
objective and has adversely affected the economics of PLN's entire investment program, indicating the
need for thorough risk analysis in aihighly uncertain operating environment, particularly in a sector
undergoing major structural reform.
*   The use of a "rate of return on revalued assets" covenant to measure financial performance is not
appropriate for a company like PLN w:ith a very large and lumpy investment program.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's own evaluation report is attached as Annex 9.
(b) Cofinanciers:
ADB's Project Completion Report for Surai.aya (May 1999) recorded the following:
"Reduction in the overall project cost by 23 percent compared to the appraisal estimate was achieved as a
result of strong international competitive bidding and the worldwide decline in demand for power plant
equipment. The main objectives of the Project were achieved with the commissioning of units 5-7 of the
Suralaya Thermal Power Plant and their supplying of electricity to the grid. It is unfortunate that as a
result of the financial crisis, the full benefits of the Project cannot be utilized in the time frame originally
envisaged. However, with gradual improvement of the economic, load growtlh is expected to be resumed
again. Overall, the Project is considered generally successful. The TA accompanying the Project achieved
its objectives in benefiting PLN, and is considered generally successful as well."
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
Memorandum No. 5. PLN signed an agreement on December 13, 1991 with a foreign firm in association
with a local firm to provide Engineering and Design Consultancy Services, as well as Construction
Management and Start Up support for Suralaya Units 5, 6 & 7. The original agreement was for a value of
US$ 33.463 million plus Rp 12.996 billion. The Services were to be provided in two stages: Stage I for
preliminary engineering and the preparations of bid documents for major contract packages, funded by a
completed Bank loan (Ln 3349-IND), and Stage II for the balance of services to complete the work, funded
by the Bank loan for Suralaya.
After the invitation for proposal for the above services had been issues by PLN, a study concluded that the
size of the individual units, which were 500 MW or the last three units in the original design could be
increased to 600 MW each for an ultimate plant capacity of 3,400 MW (Units 1-4, 400 MW). The
incremental capacity of 300 MW gave rise to the need for several additional studies to be made by the
Engineers. The Engineers were also required by the Bank to compress the implementation schedule from 9
months to 6 months between commissioning of the three units.
Even though the out of scope work was already identified immediately after contract signing, PLN was
reluctant to start processing any contract amendment so soon after securing the Govemment's approval to
- 14-



the original contract. Also, the full extent of scope changes was not yet final. Although the Bank
persistently requested PLN to regularize the scope of work of the Engineer, PLN did not attempt to do so
until October 1996. This caused the Engineer to work under a contract for which payment could not be
made; in October 1996 the Engineer was out of pocket by about US$ 14 million. In October 4, 1996 PLN
sent to the Bank Memorandum No. 5 to amend the Engineer's Contract to support an additional of 711 rn/m
to complete all the activities in the contract.
Because of the large sums of money in Memorandum No. 5, the matter was discussed at an OPRC meeting
which decided that Memorandum No. 5 should be reviewed by an independent entity. OPRC agreed on
payment of 50% of the expenditures covered in Memorandum No. 5 to the Engineer, and the remaining
50% was subject to an examination by an auditor of the book of the Engineer to verify that the man-months
claimed have actually been expended under the Contract Agreement have already been so expended. A
conditional NOL was issued in March 1997. KPMG Peat Marwick was selected to do this auditing work.
On September 17, 1997 KPMG submitted their report which satisfactorily verified the man-months and
direct expenses and confirmed deliverables to visible activities.
It is to be noted that the manner in which the contract was "manipulated" by PLN is neither normal nor
desirable. Most of the additional tasks to be accomplished under the contract were known during
negotiations and prior to contract signing. It is difficult, therefore to justify the five year delay in putting
the proposal together for appraisal of the additional costs involved. Nevertheless and in spite of this
unfortunate event and out of pocket expenses by the Engineer, there was no measurable impact on project
management.
- 15 -






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator            SAR Tarsget    Actual
Commercial Operation:
* Unit #5                       06/97       06/97
* Unit #6                       12/97       09/97
* Unit #7                       06/98        12/97
Training of PLN O&M Engineers       55           55
Indicator                Benchmark             Actual
1998   1999   03/2000
Utilization and Efficiency
Capacity Factor (CF, %)
* Unit #5                               70        62      69       64
* Unit #6                               70        34      50       76
* Unit #7                               70        65      43       68
Equivalent Availability Factor (EAF, %)
* Unit #5                               80        79      98       80
* Unit #6                               80        58      77       95
* Unit #7                               80        87      69       85
Standard Coal Consumption (g/kWh)
* Unit #5                              455        479    462      451
* Unit #6                              455        449    449      451
* Unit #7                              455        463    440      450
Gross Thermal Efficiency (%)
* Unit#5                                36        34.8   36.1    37.4
* Unit #6                               36        37.2   37.1    37.4
* Unit #7                               36       36.1   38.0    37.4
Environmental Protection
ESP Efficiency (%) at
* Unit #5                              99.5       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
* Unit #6                              99.5       n.a.   n.a.     n.a.
* Unit #7                              99.5       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
System Reliability in Java-Bali
* SAIFI (times/customer/year)           -         12.4   13.1     n.a.
* SAIDI (hours/customer/year)           -         9.8    8.9      n.a.
Note: a/ ESP efficiency in 1997 was 99.75%, 99.81% and 99.88% for Units 5/6/7
respectively; and has not been tested since then.
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ millioni equivalent)
Appraisal      ActuallLatest   Percentage
Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                  US$ million      US$ million
Turbine generator and ancillaries                         253.40             198.02           78.15
Steam generators and ancillaries                          627.50            689.45           109.87
Piling and circulating water channels                       52.90            40.90            77.32
Marine works                                                29.70            22.79            76.73
Main civil works                                            99.00            50.72            51.23
Stacks                                                     29.50             25.47            86.34
Steelworks and cladding                                    36.80             26.15            71.06
Ash and coal handling plants                                96.70             77.53           80.18
Mechanical and electrical works                           203.00             155.46           76.58
Substation and transformers                                49.00             30.18            61.59
500 kV transmission system                                 75.00             70.77            94.36
Own administration and supervision                           6.80             9.06           133.24
Housing colony                                               9.40              0.00               0
Technical assistance (engineering & other TA)              61.40             56.58            92.15
Total Baseline Cost                                      1630.10           1453.08
Physical Contingencies                                   107.20
Price Contingencies                                      287.20
Total Project Costs                2024.50           1453.08
Interest during construction     336.00             149.63           44.53
Total Financing Required                 2360.50           1602.71
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(IJSS million eauivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category
.__________________ .ICB    NCB       Other2      N.B.F     Total Costs
1. Works                 70.90       0.00       0.00       136.90      207.80
(45.70)    (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)      (45.70)
2. Goods                 365.60      0.00       0.00       1365.20     1730.80
(318.30)    (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)     (318.30)
3. Services               0.00       0.00       77.30       0.00        77.30
(0.00)    0'0.00)     (69.60)    (0.00)      (69.60)
4. Miscellaneous          0.00       0.00        0.00       8.60        8.60
(0.00)     1'0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                 436.50       0.00       77.30     1510.70     2024.50
MEN_ 4A! L    o.00)   (69.60)     (0.00)      (433.60)
- 17-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
SS million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category
ICB           NCB           Other2         NB.F         Total Costs
l. Works                         48.26          0.00           0.00          50.72           98.98
(37.77)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (37.77)
2. Goods                        213.70           0.00           0.00         1074.76        1288.46
(206.97)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (206.97)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00           56.58          0.00           56.58
(0.00)        (0.00)         (54.74)        (0.00)         (54.74)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00          9.06            9.06
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                        261.96          0.00           56.58        1134.54         1453.08
1  (244.74)        (0.00)        (54.74)         (0.00)        (299.48)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent)
Component          A- Draisal Estimate                        Actual/Lat st Estimaite          Percentaee of AvDraisal
Bank  PLN/GOI   CoF.        Total    Bank  PLN/GOI  CoF.   Total   Bank  PLN/GOI CoF.  Total
Turbine generator                                                          7.38  190.64   198.02
Steam generator                                                          158.17  531.27   689.44
Piling & C.W. channel                                                     40.90            40.90
Marine works                                                               5.24             5.24
Main civil works                                                 17.55    20.24   30.48    68.27
Stacks                                                           20.22     5.25            25.47
Steelworks & cladding                                            23.51     2.64            26.15
Ash and coal handling                                             1.91     8.65   66.97    77.53
Mechanical & electrical                                         152.82     2.64           155.46
Substation & transformers                                        28.73     1.46            30.19
5OOkV transmission sys.                                                   11.52   59.26    70.78
Own admin & supervision                                                    9.06             9.06
Housing colony
Technical assistance    I       I     _I_I __    54.74                     1.83            56.57 1      1         1 _
Total financing required  433 60   477.80  1,113.10   2,024.50   29948   274.98  878.62 1.453.08  69.07      57.55  78.93  71.77
Note the following:
*    Appraisal financing plan by components and by financiers is not available.
*    CoF (cofinancing) includes loans from ADB, export credits and other sources.
*    The estimated Bank financing include $10 million from Loan 3349-IND.
*    The actual Bank financing include $10 million disbursed under Loan 3349-IND; excluding this amount,
the actual Bank financing valued by the borrower in the above table would be $289.48 million, which is
different from the actual disbursement of $282.15 million valued by the Bank; the gap was due to
fluctuations of exchange rates as the Bank and the borrower valued the transactions in terms of USD on
different dates.
- 18-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
Appraisal Estimate                           Ex-post Estimate
19.98% on PLN's investment program in Java for   12.40% on PLN's investment program in Java for
1991/92 through 1997/98 (that the Bank financed   1991/92-1998, the period that the Bank-financed
project was a part) at the prevailing tariffs and  project ended up covering, including consumer
including consumer surplus. If the consumer  surplus. Without consumer surplus the revenue
surplus is not taken into account, the EIRR is  streams are all negative and hence the EIRR cannot
10.96%.                                      be re-evaluated.
The ex-post calculations are shown in Tables I and 2 below. Table 1, the base case, is evaluated witlh the
prevailing tariff. Table 2 is a case study for the expected tariff increases to 8.9 ¢/kWh in 1991 constant
prices by 2003 and beyond. The assumptions are available on file as part of the supporting documents
listed in Annex 7.
19-



Table 1. Suralaya Steam Coal Power Plant Project (Units 5, 6 & 7)
Calculation of EIRR on Java Investment (1991/92 - 1998)
Base Case (without tariff increase)                                                                              (US$: Million)
Year    Investment     Total        Total      Revcnue    Consumer        Total       Total            tenefitc - Costs
Shadow       Sales     Incr. Sales                Surplus      Benelit       Cost        Revenue        Total
Price      (GWh)                                                                      at avg. tariff  Benefit
(1)_______  L .  ___________ 2)      (3)         (     - (2    (2) -(3)
1989                                                  0                         0           0              0             0
1990                                                  0                         0           0              0             0
1991           1,249    25,078            0           0            0            0        1,257         -1,257        -1,257
1992           1,628    27,838        2,760         179          188          366        1,785         -1,606        -1,419
1993           1,626    31,213        6,135         430          329          758        1,933         -1,504        -1,175
1994           1,946    34,638        9,560         627          451        1,078        2,291         -1,664       -1,213
1995          2,819     40,134       15,056         934          526        1,460        3,284         -2,350       -1,824
1996           1,815    45,936       20,858        1,308         737        2,044        2,458         -1,151         -414
1997           1,385    51,511       26,433        1.494        1,186       2,680        2,095          -600           586
1998            579     51,078       26,000         509         1,521       2,030        1,343          -833           687
1999              0     51,078       26,000         702         1,310       2,012         783            -81         1,229
2000              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310        2,357         783           265          1,575
2001              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2002              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2003              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2004              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2005              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2006              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1.310        2,357         783           265          1,575
2007              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310        2,357         783           265          1,575
2008              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2009              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2010              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2011              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2012              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2013              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2014              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2015              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310        2,357         783           265          1,575
2016              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2017              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2018              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1.310        2,357         783           265          1,575
2019              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2020              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1.310       2,357          783           265          1,575
2021              0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310        2,357         783           265          1,575
EIRR with consumer surplus                     12.40%/,
a/ Average tariff in US censtkWh referred to 1991 as base year are: 6.54 in 1991; 6.47 in 1992; 7.00 in 1993;
6.56 in 1994; 6.20 in 1995; 6.27 in 1996; 5.65 in 1997; 1.96 in 1998; 2.70 in 1999; and 4.03 in 2000.
b/ Additional economic benefits for residential and industrial consumers are:
Residential (in US cent/kWh): 11.16 in 1991; 10.70 in 1992; 9.41 in 1993; 8.07 in 1994; 6.75 in 1995; 6.86 in 1996;
S.10 in 1997; 8.42 in 1998; 7.68 in 1999.
Industrial (in US cent/kWh): 5.65 in 1991; 5.42 in 1992; 4.07 in 1993; 3.76 in 1994; 2.36 in 1995; 2 49 in 1996;
3.45 in 1997; 6.06 in 1998; 4.80 in 1999.
c/ EIRR at average tariff is not evaluated since net revenue cash-flow is all negative.
- 20 -



Table 2. Surclaya Steam Coal Power Plant Project (Units 5, 6 & 7)
Calculation of EIRR on Java Intestment (1991192 - 1998)
With Tariff Increase                                                                                                Million US$
Year    Investment      Total        Total      Revenue    Consumer       Total        Total            Benerisc - COst
Shadow        Sales     Incr. sales               Surplus      benefit       cost        Revenue        Total
Price      (GWh)                                                                      at avg. tariff  benefit
___   _   -_   _fl)   _         (2)          f3)    ,  (1) - (3)    ____-_(3)
1989                                                   0                        0            0             0             0
1990                                                   0                        0            0             0             0
1991           1,249     25,078           (l0                       0           0         1,257        -1,257        -1,257
1992           1,628     27,838        2.76(         179          188         366         1,785        -1,606        -1.419
1993           1,626     31,213        6,135         430          329         758         1,933        -1,504        -1,175
1994           1,946     34,638        9,56C         627          451        1,078        2,291        -1,664        -1.213
1995           2,819     40,134       15,056         934          526        1,460       3,284         -2,350        -1.824
1996           1,815     45,936       20,858        1,308         737        2,044        2,458        -1,151         -414
1997           1,385      51,511      26,433        1,494       1,186        2,680        2,095          -600          586
1998            579      51,078       26,000         509        1,521        2,030        1,343          -833          687
1999              0      51,078k      26,000         702        1,310        2,012         783            -81        1.229
2000               0      51,078      26,000        1,048        1,310       2.357         783            265         1,575
2001              0       51,078      26,000        1,314       1,310        2,624         783            531         1,841
2002              0       51,078      26,000        2,139        1,310       3,449         783          1,356        2.666
2003              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3.623         783          1,530         2,840
2004              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2005              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2006              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530         2,840
2007               0      51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530         2,840
2008              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2009              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2010              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2011              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2012              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2013              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3.623         783          1,530        2,840
2014               0      51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530        2.840
2015              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2016              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2017              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2018              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530        2,840
2019              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530         2,840
2020              0       51,078      26,000        2,313        1,310       3,623         783          1,530         2.840
2021              0       51,078      26,000        2,313       1,310        3,623         783          1,530        2,840
EIRR without Consumer Surplus       7.74%
EIRR with Consumer Surplus         19.18%,
a/ Average tariff in US cent/kWh referred to 1991 as base ! ear are: 6.54 in 1991; 6.47 in 1992; 7.00 in 1993;
6.56 in 1994; 6.20 in 1995; 6.27 in 1996; 5.65 in 1997; 1.96 in 1998; 2.70 in 1999;4-03 in 2000,5.05 in 2001;
8.23 in 2002; and 8.90 in 2003.
b/ Additional economic benefits for residential and industrial consumers are:
Residential (in US cent/kWh): 11.16 in 1991; 10.70 in 1992; 9.41 in 1993; 8.07 in 1994; 6.75 in 1995; 6.86 in 1996;
8. 10 in 1997; 8.42 in 1998; 7.68 in 1999.
Industrial (in US cent/kWh): 5.65 in 1991; 5.42 in 1992; 4.07 in 1993; 3.76 in 1994; 2.36 in 1995; 2.49 in 1996;
3.45 in 1997; 6.06 in 1998; 4.80 in 1999.
- 21 -



Comparative Generation Costs
Table 3 compares the costs of generation for various sources of power, including coal, combined-cycle and
geothermal. Nuclear was left out (which was included in the Staff Appraisal Report) as it is at present not
a viable alternative for Indonesia.
Table 3. Levelized Busbar Cost of Alternatives
Combined
Description                           Unit             Coal        Cycle     Geothermal
Installed Capacity                  (MW)                  600           600           55
Capital Cost                        ($/kW)                900          700          1000
Discount Rate                          %                   12           12             12
Disc. Rate (12%)                      pu               0.1275        0.134        0.1275
Life Time                                                  25           20            25
Ann. Capital Cost                 ($/kW-Year)             115           94            127
Ann. 0 & M Fixed Cost             ($/kW-Year)             27.0        21.0           30.0
Fuel Type                                                 Coal         Gas
Heat Content                    (kcal/kg, btulscf)       5300         1000
Fuel Price                      ($/ton, $/MMbtu)         28.0         2.53
Thermal Efficiency                    (%)                  37           48
Heat Rate                         (kcal/kWh)             2324         1792
Fuel Cost                           ($/kWh)             0.012        0.018
Capacity factor                       (%)
c1st year                                                  55           50            80
* 2nd year                                                 60           55            80
* 3rd year                                                 65           60            80
* 4th year                                                 70           65            80
Capiial Cost                        (0/kWh)                2.0         1.7            1.8
Fuel Cost                           (0/kWh)                1.2         1.8            4.0
O & M fixed                        (¢/kWh)                 0.5         0.4            0.4
O & M Variable                     (¢/kWh)               0.06         0.09           0.20
Total Generation Cost               (CkWh)                 3.7         4.0            6.4
Ratio to coal                                               1.0         1.1            1.7
Ratio to combined cycle                                    0.9          1.0            1.6
Source: PLN
All costs are expressed in US$ as of January 1999
Discount rate 12%
Fuel price escalation rate is I % per year
Other assumptions are available on file as part of the supporting documents listed in Annex 7.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               Nc. of Persons and Specialty              Performn ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/90                          2   Engineers
I   Financial Analyst
11/90                         2   Engineers
I   Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/91                          3   Engineers
I   Financial Analyst
07/91                          2   Engineers
I   Financial Analyst
Supervision
05/93                          2  Engineers                              S                 HS
I  Financial Analyst
I  Env. Specialist
06/94                          1  Engineer                              HS                 HS
03/95                          1  Engineer                               S                 HS
I  Env. Specialist
09/95                          1  Engineer                              HS                 HS
03/96                          2  Engineers                             HS                 HS
11/96                          2   Engineers                            HS                HS
07/97                          1  Engineer                              HS                 HS
11/97                          2  Engineers                              S                 S
2  Economists
I  Procurement Specialist
07/98                          2   Engineers                             S                 U
I  Env. Specialist
12/98                          2   Engineers                             S                 U
I  Financial Analyst
04/99                          2   Engineers                             S                 U
I  Financial Analyst
I  Operations Officer
- 23 -



ICR
02/00                          2   Engineers                             S                  U
I   Financial Analyst
I   Operations Officer
1   Env. Specialist
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                29.1                         N/A
Appraisal/Negotiation                     66.5                         N/A
Supervision                              105.2                         N/A
ICR                                        8.1                         N/A
Total                                    208.9                         N/A
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=NModest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                               *H OSUOM ON ONA
N Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
f Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
[ Gender                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
N Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                 OH  O SU O M  O N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS OS   OU  OHU
M Supervision                                        *HS OS  OU  OHU
N Overall                                            OtHS * S   C U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        O HS * S   C U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 s  0  U  0 HU
E Overall                                            O HS * S  C U  O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. ADB's Project Completion Report on the Power XXII Project (Loan No. 11 72-INO), May 1999.
2. Auditor Report in Engineering Services Contract for Suralaya Steam Power Plant Units 5, 6 and 7 by
KPMG Peat Marwick, 17 September 1997.
3. Engineer's Project Completion Report.
4. Environmental Assessment Summary for Suralaya, June 5, 1991.
5. Assumptions on ex-post calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR).
- 27 -



Annex 8
Suralaya Thermal Power Project
ICR Mission
Aide-Memoire
February 2000
Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the Project as stated in the SAR are: (a) to expand PLN's electricity
capacity through completion of the Suralaya Thermal Power Plant; (b) to promote the economic
use of coal for electricity generation; (c) to develop PLN's institutional capacity to operate and
maintain thermal power plants; and (d) to strengthen PLN's financial Capacity.
Project Components
2.    The Project includes the following components: (a) construction of three 600 MW coal-
fired units at Suralaya, including associated works, and a 500 kV transmission line from Cilegon to
Cibinong with associated substations; (b) consulting services for engineering design and
construction supervision of the proposed units; (c) feasibility study for a high voltage submarine
cable link between Java and Sumatra; (d) engineering and design of a thermal power plant at
Banjarmasin in South Kalimantam; (e) consulting services for institutional development, and (f)
training of PLN staff in public utility practices.
Preparation for the ICR
3.    The mission reviewed with PLN the ICR' process and requirement, and collected data and
information for its preparation. The mission also visited the site and followed-up on some
outstanding issues.
4.    In addition, the mission provided advice to PLN for preparing its own evaluation report,
which will he attached unedited to the ICR. The evaluation report should include: (a) an
assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operation experience; (b) an
evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and (c) an
evaluation of the performance of the Bank, and cofinanciers or other partners during the evolution
and implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationships among the
borrower, the Bank, cofinanciers and other partners, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
Project Overview
5.    In spite of various initial delays in the contract awards by about 8 months, and other
mishaps, Suralaya Units 5, 6 and 7 were commissioned with a minimum of delay. During
commissioning of Unit 5 a fire broke out in the secondary air heaters which contributed a 2 I/2
months delay to Unit 5. Unit 6 was accepted for Commercial Operation within contract schedule
Core Accountability ICR.
- 28 -



and Unit 7 three months ahead of schecdule2. Excellent project management and good coordination
efforts by PLN, Consulting Engineer, Contractors, and the Bank contributed to this exemplary
implementation record despite having 1.3 main contracts for the Project's scope of work. The 500
kV reinforcement of the grid was corrmmissioned successfully with the construction of a 130 km
single-circuit line between Cilegon-Ci'binong-Saguling and expanding the substations at Cilegon
and Cibinong. No problems have been experienced with the transmission line nor the substations.
Resettlement was minor and land accluisition issues were successfully resolved. The 500 kV
transmission line and substations were energized on 30 July 1996.
6.     DCIS Room Temperature. Thle Contractor (Stone & Webster) completed the additional
work by September 30, 1999 as requested in previous mission. The DCIS temperature can now be
maintained within the range of 21-24 CC. The DCIS specifications require the temperature to be
maintained at about 23 'C. However, if not set correctly, the DCIS temperature can be reduced to
about 18.5 'C at which time condensation will occur with the possibility of damage to the sensitive
electronic control cards. The mission advised PLN/PJBI to regularly inspect the temperature
setting in the AC system and maintain Ihe temperature level close to the 23°C design specification
temperature.
7.     Turbine Hall Temperature. PLN/PJB 1 indicated that the temperature in the turbine hall
can now be maintained in the range of 34-39 'C if the temperature outside is about 29°C. This is a
5-10 'C incremental over the ambient temperature. The specifications require a five degree Celsius
differential above ambient. The mission observed that the temperature inside the 2"d floor of the
turbine hall is still uncomfortably high. The design basis for the additional work by the Contractor
(Stone & Webster) would decrease the temperature of the turbine hall by at least 1fO. The
commissioning/performance test requires that the three units be available during the test, a
situation which is now possible. PLN/PJB 1 indicated that the commissioning test will be carried
out in shortly. The mission requested l'LN/PJB1 to (a) carefully review the Contractor's design
after the commissioning test; (b) write a letter to Contractor requiring design modifications if
warranted by a review of the commissioning test data; and (c) carefully check all equipment that
may be affected by the high temperature in the various floors in the turbine hall, particularly on the
2nd floor (mezzanine floor). At the wrap-up meeting, PLN indicated that some temperature tests
have already been carried out and the temperatures are seemingly within specifications.
8.     Air-Monitoring System.   A  new  air-monitoring  system  (also provided by  Stone
&Webster), to replace the lighting-damaged weather station, has been placed into operation and
meteorological monitoring has already begun. The mission advised PJBI/PLN to recalibrate the
station. The following environmental clata is now collected: S02, NoX, NO, N02, PM10, and
wind speed and direction as required at appraisal. The mission requested that (a) PLN provide for
the proper maintenance to the air-monitoring system as the tendency is usually to neglect it; (b) as
2      Commercial Operation of Unit 5: SAR: 5 March 1997.    Actual: 25 June 1997.
Unit 6: SAR: 16 September 1997. Actual 10 September 1997.
Unit 7: SAR: March 1998.     Actual 19 December 1997.
3      Because of limited space within the ground floor and the mezzanine floor, the grating between
floors is very limited. The heat load in the turbine hall is about 6,078,502 BTU/hir. With a 20% safety factor,
the selected ventilation system requires an air flow of 187,608 Cfm to reduce the temperature of the turbine
hall by 1°C. To reduce the temperature of the turbine call by 2°C would have required an air flow of over
500,000 Cfm which would have increased the cost for the additional work considerably.
- 29 -



the new asset has not been transferred to PJBI, the mission requested for PLN to finalize the
transfer to PJBl so the responsibility of operation and maintenance of the facility is normalized.
9.     Coal supply situation. As PT Bukit Asam (PTBA) is only delivering 80% of contracted
amounts, PJBI is required to purchase the balance in the spot market from other suppliers
including  PT Kideco, PT Berau, and Kalimantan (KUD)4. Coal deliveries in 1999 from the
various suppliers amount to 6,955,266 Kgs for PTBA, 512,098 for PT Kideco, 737,328 for PT
Berau and 210,270 for KUD for a total of 8,414,962 Kgs. PJBI is at present negotiation with coal
suppliers regarding tonnage and price. The spot market suppliers are providing good competition
and PTBA has reduced its price form Rp 167,000 per ton, to Rp 155,000 per ton, as the spot market
suppliers are submitting coal supply offers at very competitive prices. PJB I indicated that it would
consider increasing the tonnage from selected spot market suppliers if the price is advantageous
and so provide an incentive to the selected spot supplier to increase investments in the mine and
further reduce prices. However, the downside to this arrangement is the inhomogeneous nature of
the coal as the coal characteristics of the various suppliers, particularly as regards to the ash
content, varies.
10.    Coal Quality. Notwithstanding the above, the mission indicated that is very concerned
about the coal quality being delivered to the site by the various suppliers. The quality of the coal is
specified in the contractual arrangements, but suppliers, apparently do not mind being penalized for
the bad quality of coal delivered. The bad quality of the coal, as well as its inhomogeneous nature
(i.e. as the coal delivered from the various suppliers has different characteristics), are impairing the
efficient operation of Suralaya, producing frequent unit deratings (see next para) which affect the
spinning reserve in the Java-Bali system and hence the integrity of the system (see also Attachment
5). Derating levels up to 50% of full capacity in some units is not infrequent. PLN/PJBI also
indicated that the January rains were also a cause of the derating loading levels at Suralaya. The
mission requested that PLN investigate carefully the cause of these derating and take whatever
action is required to normalize the situation as the integrity of the Java-Bali system is of paramount
important for economic recovery.
11.    Operational Performance. Plant availability (i.e. EAF) for Suralaya units 5-7 improved in
1999 with a value of 80% compared to 75% in 1998. Unit availabilities in 1999 were 98%, 71%,
and 72% for units 5-7, respectively. Previous mission reported units 5-7 availabilities in 1998 of
79%, 58% and 88%. Coal related problems (i.e. coal quality) are still an issue, particularly as coal
is procured from various suppliers. The mission is very concerned about the frequent intermittent
deratings of Suralaya. P3B indicated that the dispatch of Suralaya is cumbersome due to these
deratings, many times made in real time, which require the demand to be supplied from more
expensive oil-fired plant (i.e. Muaratawar, Grati and Tambaklorok). The mission requested
PLN/PJB I to (a) to careful inspect the quality of coal from suppliers; and (b) investigate all means
4
Coal Properties from Suppliers
Item            PT Bukit   PT Berau    PT Kideco   Kalimantan
Asam                               (KUD)
Calorific value, kcaUkg   5,150       5,142       5,098       5,302
Ash content %              4.09        3.97        1.87        6.62
Sulfur content %           0.25        0.78        0.19        0.30
Nitrogen %                 0.70        0.83        0.80        0.82
HGI                        49          49          50          48
- 30 -



necessary to decrease the derating levels at Suralaya since it is contributing to inefficient operation
of the system5.
12.    Efficiency Improvement Program. PLN  is implementing a system  wide Efficiency
Improvement Program6 to improve units availability, reduce plant heat rates, reduce the duration
time of inspection and extend the interval between inspections. The savings at PJB I alone are
expected to be RP 54.9 billion in 1999. The effect of this program is already evident in Unit 5
where the realized EAF in 1999 was 98% (compared to a NERC Standard of 81%), and the hear
rate was reduced from 2,590 Kcal/kWh in 1997 to 2,478 Kcal/kWh in 1999. The target heat rate is
2,310 Kcal/kWh. The mission indicated that it was very pleased with these measures, which are in
line with the Arthur Andersen recommendations7.
Technical Assistance
13.    The technical assistance for Suralaya was satisfactorily carried out.  The principal
components of institutional development consisted of human resource planning and development
(HRPD) and training. Regarding HRPD, regulations for a perfornance system have been
implemented within PLN and a remuneration system is almost 100% complete. A competency
assessment has been performed for mid- and top managerial levels and special training has been
given where appropriate. The HR information system is almost 100% complete. HR planning is
being undertaken in parallel with the Corporate and Financial Restructuring of PLN which is
underway. A training program under Suralaya for onsite and offshore training was established in
the design, and operation and maintenance of thermal power plants. In total about 12,000 person-
weeks of training was provided.
14.    Under another TA for Suralaya, a feasibility study for a HV submarine cable was also
carried (in 1994) to deternine the various options for interconnections between Java and Sumatra.
The study concluded that the preferred option is in the range of 140 MW and 200 MW. As the
expected average annual peak demand growth rate in South Sumatra is expected to be in the rage
of 12-14% (medium growth scenario) in the year 2000-2005, the study has been revisited in 1999
by the Ministry of the International Trade and Industr! with the conclusion that an interconnection
would provide economic benefits and would allow surplus capacity to be interchanged between
South Sumatra and West Java.
Environmental issues
15.    Fulfillment of Envirolniental Impact Management Commitinten2ts. Because this is the
ICR mission, one objective of the field visit was to review the extent to which PLN successfully
carried out the environmental management and monitoring activities recommended in the
ANDAL/RKL/RPL and summarized in the SAR. The overall finding is that the plant staff
The cost of oil generation is 3-4 hig:her than from coal.
6      Under Phase I, PLN efficiency drive, the savings in year 2000 are expected to amount to RP 198
billion for PJB1, PJB2, P3B and JEDU cormbined. Phase II of the efficiency drive will concentrate on a
reduction of capital expenditures and financiag, as well as improvement in human resources and information
technology. Phase III will extend PLN's Efficiency Improvement Program to Outside Java.
7      Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness Review of PT PLN (Persero), Final Report, December
1999.
8      Feasibility Study of Submarine Linie Between Java-Sumatra, March 2000, Japan Extemal Trade
Organization (JETRO). The recommendation is for the interconnector to be commissioned in 2004.
- 31 -



(particularly the Environment Unit) has taken not only the management and monitoring plans but
also the associated record keeping and reporting quite seriously. Any environmental data the
mission requested was readily available.
16.   The status of air quality management actions is summarized below.
> To minimize the likelihood of adverse impacts on ambient air quality, low sulfur coal was
specified (< 0.5% total S). The coal being obtaining from Bukit Asam (80% of plant supply)
had an average total sulfur content of 0.25% in 1999. The remainder (20%) came from three
other sources, only one of which exceeded the 0.5% limit.
> Electrostatic precipitators (ESP) for Unit 5-7 were designed for a particulate removal efficiency
of 99.5% and have been meeting that standard. ESP for Units 3 and 4 operated at 96.6 and
95.1% efficiency according to the last full year of data available (1998), although the standard
when they were installed was 93.7%. ESP in Units I and 2 are not achieving standards and
require modifications that will be scheduled after alterations to the units' ash handling systems
are completed (by the end of 2000).
> Stack emissions for S02 and NOx from Units 5 - 7 have been consistently within standards
during the year of data examined (1999). The number of "bad" readings indicates that more
attention to instrument maintenance is needed, but the fact that most of these occurred in the
first half of the year suggests an improving trend. Instruments on Units I and 2 were evidently
out of order for most of the year but showed compliance with S02 and NOx emission limits in
December. Stack instrumentation has still not been installed on Units 3 and 4 despite
reminders in Aide Memoires dating back to July 1998.
t Compliance with the 20% opacity standard has evidently been difficult. The 1999 data for
Units 1, 2 and 5 - 7 include few minimum readings below 20% and minimal in the 40 -
60% range are not uncommon. Plant environmental staff reported that Suralaya's opacity
standard was originally set at 40%, then lowered to 20%.
> Ambient air quality standards, on the other hand, have not been a problem. Annual high
and low readings for the period 1995 to 2000 show that none of the applicable standards
(S02, NOx and PM1O) has ever been exceeded at any of the 11 sampling locations.
> It should be noted that to date the ambient air quality measurements have had to be taken
manually. The instrumentation at the three automated meteorological and air quality
monitors has been replaced, but telemetry problems were not resolved until January 2000.
All three stations are now reporting hourly data to the main control room, but it is clear
from readings that recalibration is required. The stations have not yet been taken over by
the operating company, but environmental staff has been trained in operation and
maintenance. The mission was assured that adequate O&M budget would be available
despite reports to the contrary.
17.   The status of water quality management actions is summarized below.
> Influent cooling water temperature averaged 29°C during 1999, and the average outfall
temperature was 34.20 C, well below the limit of 40.00 C.
>  Effluent from the sewage treatment plant contained negligible concentrations of BOD,
COD and total dissolved solids concentration, easily complying with standards.
- 32 -



> Boiler blow down water ancl water treatment plant effluent were subject to the same
standards (pH, copper, nickel and iron). Data for 1999 show no compliance problems.
> Effluent from the oil separators was within standards according to the 1999 annual
averages.
> Runoff and leachate from the ash disposal area are collected in a settling pond that is in
urgent need of dredging, which the mission was told will occur in March. In some sections
it has no freeboard, and the berm has been overtopped in heavy rains this year. The pond
effluent is sampled for 1 1 metals. According to samples taken in August 1999, the settling
pond supematant met all metal standards and the Suralaya flyash is not considered to be
toxic waste.
> Chlorine is used to prevent growth of algae and other biomass in the plant cooling system.
The free chlorine concentration. is maintained at s 0.3 mg/l.
> Annual monitoring by Gadj a Madah University does not reveal any significant
deterioration in the marine ecosystem that can be attributed to Suralaya. The quality of
nearby coral reefs has declined slightly, but the reason identified by the scientists is
sedimentation caused by tree-cutting and land development.
18.   Ash handling, sale for reuse, and disposal are the major environmental challenges the plant
faces. It is clear that the flyash collection and conveyance systems for Units I - 4 are still not
functioning properly. The result is large amounts of fine dust that can potential affect the health of
employees as well as the condition and useful life of nearby equipment, including for example
switchgear and associated cooling system for machinery in Units 5 - 7. Modifications to the ash
handling equipment for Units 1 - 4 are expected to be completed by the end of 2000.
19.   Whereas the plant had at one time been selling as much as 70% of flyash for reuse, only
10-15% is currently being sold. The ash disposal site is therefore filling more rapidly, but it is still
expected to have capacity until 2007-S even if flyash sales do not improve. Gadja Madah is
investigating a range of new flyash use options for PLN. In the meantime, the disposal site needs
road improvement, compaction, and other actions to stabilize the slope of the piles which have
exhibited a tendency to slide in heavy rain. The mission also suggested that PLN not become
fixated on sale of flyash, because in actuality giving the flyash to contractors at no cost is still a
cheaper altemative to having to find a new disposal site sooner than intended or having to pay to
have the flyash hauled to a more distant disposal point.
20.    Outstanding Environmental Issues.  To summarize, the following conditions require
attention to ensure that Suralaya's environmental impacts will continue to be minimal:
> dredge ash settling pond;
> complete modifications of flyasli collection and conveyance systems, Units I - 4;
> complete repairs to ESP for Units 1 and 2;
> install stack emission monitoring instrumentation for Units 3 and 4, and improve operating
reliability through better inspect.on and maintenance;
> recalibrate automated air/meteorology stations and fund and implement an effective
maintenance program for the equipment; and
> continue planning for alternative flyash reuse and disposal options.
- 33 -



Recalculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR).
21.    At appraisal, the Project was part of PLN's dynamic least cost expansion program for the
Java-Bali system. Suralaya units 5-7 operate at high efficiency as a base-loaded plant with an
average heat rate of 2,314 Kcal/kWh at a 100 % loading level. Using the same methodology as in
the SAR, the EIRR has been recalculated as 11.8 % including consumer surplus. With the
prevailing tariff the net revenue is negative and hence the EIRR cannot be re-evaluated. PLN will
submit to the Bank a re-evaluated EIRR based on a tariff prevailing before the crisis along with the
major assumptions and detailed calculations, as well as a comparative analysis of generation costs
for various alternatives, by end of February 2000.
Loan Disbursement
22.   The original loan amount was $423.6 million. Partial loan proceeds cancellations were
made in the aggregate amount of $132.2 million, resulting a revised loan amount of $291.4 million.
As of February 3, 2000, $282.2 million has been disbursed, accounting for 96.8% of the revised
loan amount. The undisbursed balance of $9.2 million is likely to be canceled upon closure of the
loan account.
Performance Indicators
23.    The mission reviewed with PLN  the Project performance indicators as shown in
Attachment 1. It was agreed that PLN will review by February 17, 2000.
Next Steps
24.   It was agreed that (a) PLN's own evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank by mid-
March 2000 and (b) PLN will provide an update of the perfornance indicators by end of February
2000.
25.   The mission advised PLN that a draft ICR is expected to be sent to PLN by end of March
2000. PLN will forward its comments, if any, to the Bank by no later than April 30, 2000.
9      On the basis of the incremental costs and sales resulting from the implementation of the least-cost
plan for the Java-Bali system for the period 1991/92 - 1997/98.
- 34 -



Attachment 1
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicator                Benchmark   1998   Actu  03/2000
Utilization and Efficiency
Capacity Factor (CF, %)
* Unit #5                              70         62     69       64
* Unit #6                              70         34     50       76
* Unit #7                              70         65     43       68
Equivalent Availability Factor (EAF, %)
* Unit #5                              80         79     98       80
* Unit #6                              80         58     77       95
* Unit #7                              80         87     69       85
Standard Coal Consumption (g/kWh)
* Unit #5                              455       479    462       451
* Unit #6                              455       449    449       451
* Unit #7                              455       463    440       450
Gross Thermal Efficiency (%)
* Unit #5                              36        34.8   36.1     37.4
* Unit #6                              36        37.2   37.1     37.4
* Unit #7                              36        36.1   38.0    37.4
Environmental Protection
ESP Efficiency (%) a/
* Unit #5                             99.5       n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
* Unit #6                             99.5       n.a.   n.a.      n.a.
* Unit #7                             99.5       n.a.   n.a.      n.a.
System Reliability in Java-Bali
* SAIFI (times/customer/year)           -        12.4   13.1      n.a.
* SAIDI (hours/customer/year)                     9.8    8.9      n.a.
- 35 -



Annex 9
Suralaya Thermal Power Project
(IBRD Loan No. 3501-IND)
Borrower's Completion Report
I. Project objectives.
The objectives of the proposed project were to:
A. Meet the increasing demand for electrical generation within industrializing West Java.
B. Shifting the consumption of fuel resources from natural gas and oil to coal, natural gas and oil are
primary export product for which Indonesia receives significant revenue.
C. Extended the capabilities of PLN's design of steam power plant projects.
D. To provide considerable employment opportunities in West Java area for construction and
operation.
II. Achievement of project objective.
Suralaya steam power plant Unit 5, 6 and 7 3 X 600 MW achieved the goal of providing a
commercially operating power station addition in five years from award of the contract.
This should be considered a significant accomplishment to the success of PLN ability to provide
reliable power to the Java-Bali power grid. The new units are principally being operated as base load
unit to maximize the benefit to our country. As of 24 March 1998, the total unit generation is as
listed: Unit 5: 914.984 MWh, Unit 6: 694.157 MWh, Unit 7: 562.796 MWh with fuel resources coal.
PLN project training was provided by an extensive program of Transfer of Technology presentations
provided by the consultant and offshore and onsite training by the contractors. The Suralaya project
training program was a composite program provide by the: Civil works (C55), Stacks (C58), Steam
generator and ancillaries (C60), Turbine generator and ancillaries (C61), Ash handling plant (C62),
Mechanical & electrical works (C63), Coal handling plant (C64), Compressed gas insulated bus
(C65A), Power transformer (C65B), 150 kV substation (C65C). This project provided employment
for 7300 manpower during implementation of total project for construction and operation.
III. Implementation report and major factors affecting the project
Engineering, design and construction supervision of 3 x 600 MW of Suralaya Steam Power Plant
(Units 5,6 and 7) were conducted by PT.PLN (Persero) Jasa Enjiniring, consultant Black & Veatch
International in association with PT.Encona Engineering Inc. agreement No.178 PJ/070/199l/M has
been successfully complete.
The project were subdivided of 13 construction packages: Piling and Circulating Water Channel
(C5 1), Marine Works (C53), Civil Works (C55), Steelwork and Cladding (C57), Stacks (C5 8), Steam
Generators and Ancillaries (C60), Turbine Generators and Ancillaries (C61), Ash Handling Plant
(C62), Mechanical and Electrical works (C63), Coal Handling Plant (C64), Compressed Gas
Insulated Bus (C65A), Power Transformer (C65B), 150 kV Substation (C65C).
Unit 5 of lx 600 MW the project was started on 19 February 1993 with the turbine generator contract.
Units 6 and 7 were started at six months interval. The final package of the contract was awarded July
- 36 -



1994. Unit 5 of lx600 MW was declared commercial operation 25 June 1997, Unit 6 of 1 x 600 MW
was declared commercial operation 10 September 1997, Unit 7 of lx600 MW was declared
commercial operation 19 December 1997.Completion of overall project was finished two months
ahead of schedule.
Status of mid March 1998 project allocated cost US$ 1,898,500,000 and in the implementation the
contracts for the project were awardecd at a total cost of US$ 1,423,762,000. The overall project cost
is approximately 30 percent lower than original project estimate.
PLN's also ensured compliance with the loan term achievement of continuous operation as especially
on base-load time during lifetime of the plant.
IV. Bank performance
The economic evaluation of the project was carried out on actual basis of the tariff, sales and
exchanges rates before crisis condition.
PLN's financial and economic performance regarding the project now is dependent on the
maximization of the utilization of this project on the base load time. In PLN's view the performance
of the Bank was satisfactory throughout all phases of the project from the preparation to completion.
Only the C60 contractor for Steam generators and ancillaries experienced difficulties with loan
agreements between the Ministry of Finance and USEXIM, JEXJM. The opening of the letters of
credit were impacted by these delays. Tfhe letters of credit for JEXIM were opened on 27 October
1994. The letters of credit for USEXIMvI were opened on 23 May 1995. Letter of credit numbers were
required for processing of the Master lists for shipment of equipment and material to Indonesia.
V. Borrower Performance.
The perfornance of PLN's was generally satisfactory and improvements were achieved by using the
experienced gained in previous project.
The planned schedule to award all contract between February 1993 and November 1993, the contract
were actually awarded between Februaiy 1993 and July 1994 which is a variation delay on the
original schedule of 8 months. The reason for this delay was shifting of scope of supply from Turbine
generator contract to the steam generator and mechanical electrical contract and the difficulties in
evaluation of the large steam generator contract.
The Suralaya Units 5,6 and 7 was completed two months ahead of schedule.
VI. Operation
A. Initial operation
Trial operation were divided into two phases:
1. Operation of common equipment
- Desalination plant 23 May 1996.
- Water treatment plant 13 November 1996.
- Coal handling plant Unit 5 on 20 December 1996.
- Coal handling plant Unit 6 on 26 March 1996.
- Coal handling plant Unit 7 on 19 September 1996.
2. Operation of generating units
- Unit 5 of I x 600 MW on 16 December 1996.
- 37 -



- Unit 6 of I x 600 MW on 20 March 1997.
- Unit 7 of I x 600 MW on 19 September 1997.
B. Commercial operation
1. Operation of common equipment under the jurisdiction of PLN subsidiary PT
PLN(Persero) PJB-I Unit Pembangkit Suralaya.
2. Operation of generating units under the jurisdiction of the Load Dispatching Center
PT.PLN (Persero) P3B Jawa Bali:
- Unit 5: 1 x 600 MW 25 June 1997.
- Unit 6: 1 x 600 MW 10 September 1997.
- Unit 7: 1 x 600 MW 19 December 1997.
VII. Main findings and key lessons learned
The project contracts were subdivided into 13 (thirteen) main contracts; this significantly increased
the coordination effort required to complete the project. The turbine island procurement was
subdivided into Turbine Generator and Ancillaries (C61) and to Mechanical & Electrical Works
(C63); this also significantly increased the coordination effort.
Base on the above matters, we have to pay more attention to the subdivision of the contracts, so that
the same problem does not recur in the future.
Contracts should be awarded on the basis of a single responsible contractor and not as a joint
operation. Joint operation leaves the owner with difficult control over the contract should one member
default or otherwise not be capable of completing the work. The primary contractor shall be capable
of completing the entire scope of work.
-38 -






IBRD 2361 OR
N  ILIPPINES
B RU NEP
,\MlL A YS                                  PACIFIC  OCEAN                                                                 INDONESIA
0                                         ~~~~~~~SURALAYA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
5GAPOR                             L 
ALIMA TSRAN               f                                                      Major Power Plants and Main 500kV Transmission Lines
Jav a60 SaYA
rA      j I    R        ESiA          r                                                             ONGOING    ASSOCIATED
AREA OF MAP          A                            ORES                                         PROJECT   PLANNED       COMMITTED        OF IPP      EXISTING
BALI -   ~   ~       T TIMOR         I
INDIAN OCEAN  .                   - r     Ti MOR                 ALI                                                                                         POWER STATIONS
t`~   t1A LIA
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _500 kV TRANSMISSION  LINES
(UMA    RA  ', .                          -.   ,                         **                                                    *         k00kV SUBSTATIONS
SUMA,fRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I-  -    -                                                                                -
-     <       1< - <       }                             '      'h '6.,~4yh   'OIO  W  '0  _   .  .   '___  '   '  11_2' ___            '               ,_2       ,  .      - *_,    , __
'   \  -So  o    <~~  -                                     KILOMETERS       > 
O,J          .  - o   01    -       JAKRTA,
0   o  A     4              -  -      -.  -  Q  -             -. .  -                     ;                       e2    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE(iPPOPINSI) CAPITALS- 
- ^ > 1; rt j2ngk ,,, , ; , . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~E~~ -i~~~ PROVINCE jPROPISI) BOUNDARIES
.   S }    -      C     i    b          L~ ~~~~~~         ~     ~       ~    ~      ~    ~~~~~Ci. HEPP   ;f, ,; J p                     
\  0 00000 t0W~                                                                                                         r _JA                              0
I ND  BI A  N          0: C  E A  N,                                      -- -: -I.\YogyCkry 't A2b TMnd2 
abomodzmpisimioderAmotm6"lilb2E ' ., , KILOMETERS -           .
Tmop,myls 6mnleolA lSolshb ef ybm y Yony   .: .  :-   .  : z 2  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUE 00



