Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
js SGe2-TL/
Report No.  5572-TU
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 20, 1985
Projects Department
Eurnpe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  =    Turkish Lira (TL)
TL 1                                100 Kurus (krs)
USti                           =    TL 450
TL 1                                US$.o02
Currency equivalents are those effective January 1985, unless otherwise
indicated.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
KVA                                           =    kilovolt ampere
kW                                            =    kilowatt
kWh                                           =    kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                           =    1,000,000 kWh
HV                                            =    High Voltage
kV (kilovolt)                                 =    1,000 volts
MW (Megawatt)                                 =    1,000 kW
MVA (Megavolt ampere)                         =    1,000 KVA
MVAR  (Megavolt ampere reactive)                   Megavar
one meter (m)                                 =    3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)                            =    0.624 miles
One kilogram (kg) (1,000 grams)               =    2.2 pounds
One ton (metric ton) (1,000 kg)               =    2,205 pounds
one kilocalorie (kcal) (1,000 calories)       =    3.968 BTU
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGMs          -    Assistant General Managers
CEAS          -    Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (Cukurova Power Company)
DSI           -    Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
DYB           -    Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment Bank)
ELTEM-TEK     -    Elektrik Tesisleri Mishen Dislik Hizmetteri ve Ticaret
Anonim Sirketi
EdF           -    ElectricitE de France
ICB           -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA           -    International Development Association
KEPEZ A.S.    -    Kepez Electric Company
KfW           -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LRMC          -    Long-Run Marginal Cost
MENR          -    Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MTA           -    Mineral Research Institute
PEE           -    Public Economic Establishment
PIPMU         -    Project Implementation and Performance Monitoring Unit
PPAR          -    Project Performance Audit Report
PPF           -    Public Participation Fund
SAL           -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE           -    State Economic Enterprise
SEI           -    Southern Electric International
SPO           -    State Planning Organization
TEK           -    Turkiye Electric Kurumu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TRI           -    Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal Enterprises)
TPAO          -    Turkiye Petrollerei Anonim Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum
Corporation)
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE ENERGY SECTOR ..............................................       I
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Economy .1
The Resource Base ..................,                                  1
Main Agencies ...................                                      2
Demand and Supply.                                                     3
Energy Policy.                                                         4
Bank Strategy.                                                         5
II. THE ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR.                                            7
Background .....................................................       7 
System Characteristics ..................................,          7
Sectoral Development 1971-1984 ..............................    9
Government's New Strategy.                                             9
Institutional Development ..................................   10
Pricing and Demand Management .........................I.....   12
Electricity Planning .....................,.,.......   13
MediumrTerm Investment .........................................   14
Bank's Role in the Power Subsector .............................   16
III. THE PROJECT ENTITY:  TEK ..............  .........................    19
Legal Context .18
Organization and Management of TEK .18
Manpower Development and Training .21
General Characteristics of the TEK Power System .22
Operational Area of TEK .22
Operational Performance of TEK Power System .23
IV.   THE PROJECT .................. , .........................   28
Project Objectives and Relation to Subsector Strategy .               28
Project Scope and Description ..................................   28
Following a mission to Turkey in January/February, 1985, this report was
prepared by: A. Posada (Power Engineer), I. Johnson (Economist),
L. Meek Foote (Financial Analyst), Z. Ladhibi (Power Engineer) and
J. Chassard-Manibog (Economist).
This document has a resticted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofwicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT (cont'd)
Project Cost Estimate ..........................................    29
Training .................                                             31
Project Financing ..............................................    32
Status of Project Preparation .32
Project Supervision and Monitoring .34
Project Implementation .35
Procurement .35
Disbursement and Special Account .37
Retroactive Financing and Advance Contracting .37
Environmental Aspects .38
Risks .38
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS .39
Introduction .39
Recent Financial Performance ...............................,. 39
Electricity Pricing .........................................    39
Working Capital .............................................    40
Debt Service ................................................   42
Recent Trends in Sector Financing & Internal Cash Generation.    43
Public Participation Fund and Keban Revenue-Sharing
Certificates ..............................................    44
Financial Planning and Accounting Practices ....................   45
Financial Planning ..........................................    45
Audits ................,.                      .................   46
Asset Revaluation ...........................................    46
Technical Assistance to Improve Accounting ....        ..............   47
Future Financial Prospects .....................................   47
Financing of Medium-Term Power Investment Program ....      .......   47
Future Financial Position of TEK ............................   52
Agreed Revenue Covenant and Supporting Covenants ....      ........   52
Potential for Private Investment in Power ...................   53
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ..........................................   54
Relationship to Policy Objectives .54
Relationship of the Project to the Least-Cost Program .54
Rate of Return on the Investment Program .55
Justification of Individual Components .56
VII. AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .58



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
ANNEXES
1.1   Energy Balances
2.1   Demand j orecasts
2.2   Electric Power Investment Program (1985-1989)
2.3   Tariff Study
3.1   Legal Framework of TEK and Related Legislation
3.2   Organization Chart of the Turkish Electricity Authority
3.3   Personnel of TEK by Function and Level of Training
3.4   General Characteristics of TEK Power System
3.5   Comparative Performance of Major Steam Power Stations, 1980-1984
4.1   Total Project Cost Per Operational Area
4.2   Procurement Under ICB:  Procurement Schedule by Contract Packages
4.3   Operations Performance Monitoring Guidelines
4.4   Project Disbursement Schedule
4.5   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4.6   Comparison of Disbursement Profiles
5.1   Bulk (High Voltage) Electricity Tariffs; 1983-1985
5.2   Bulk (High Voltage) Tariffs Compared with TEK's Annual Revenue and
Inflation: 1982-1985
5.3   Retail (Low Voltage) Electricity Tariffs:  1983-1985
5.4   Income Statements for TEK (1981-1990)
5.5   Balance Sheets for TEK (1981-1990)
5.6   Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds for TEK (1981 - 1990)
5.7   Summary of Financial Ratios
5.8   Assumptions used in Financial Forecasts
6.1   Rate of Return Analysis
7.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 18846 & 18847
May 14, 1985



1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Economy
1.01      In 1977, four years after the first of the major oil price
increases, Turkey's oil import bill was equivalent to 84% of its merchandise
export earnings. By 1980, the situation was even more precarious: oil
imports stood at 124Z of total merchandise export earnings. Based on remedial
actions in line with the Government's structural adjustment program the
situation had, by 1984, improved and the above ratio had declined to 53%. The
improvement was a result of both strong performance of merchandise exports as
well as a policy of holding the growth in imports of crude oil and oil
products to a more moderate level (oil imports grew by an average annual rate
of 3.6% between 1981 and 1984). However, despite this improvement the need to
move away from an excessive reliance on oil imports remains crucial to
Turkey's medium-term development strategy, as the latter is dependent on the
economy's ability to mobilize foreign exchange. 1/
1.02      High priority was assigned to the energy sector by Government during
the 1980-83 period of structural adjustment. Energy policy was geared to
increasing the domestic supply of energy, primarily through increased capital
investment to about 35% of total public investment compared to about 20%
during the 1970's. In parallel greater attention was given by Government to
energy pricing policy as a means of restraining demand and mobilizing
resources. In particular Government has ensured that petroleum products
reflect economic costs as reflected by world prices, and electricity tariffs
have increased in real terms over the period (para. 2.19). Although lignite
prices declined slightly in real terms in 1981-83 a turnaround in lignite
pricing policy during 1984 resulted in a 30% increase in April 1984 and a
further 29.6% in January 1985 thus exceeding inflation over the 12-month
period.
The Resource Base
1.03      Turkey has substantial untapped lignite and hydropower resources, as
vyell as more limited, but still important, oil, gas and coal resources and
geothermal potential.  Hydropower with potential economic viability is
estimated at about 29,500 MW under average hydrological conditions and
corresponds to an annual production of about 100,000 GWh. Only 15% has been
developed so far, but this is projected to rise to about 30% by 1990. Proven
recoverable reserves of oil are about 16 million tons. However, potential
reserves that may become economically recoverable using enhanced oil recovery
1/ See "Turkey-The Vth Five Year Plan in the Context of Structural
Adjustment: A Review" (Green cover), February 27, 1985.



techniques currently being tested could be as high as 30 million tons. Oil
production has been declining over the last decade, as few discoveries have
been made in recent years; in 1983 production was about 3 million tons.
Proven recoverable gas reserves are about 400 billion standard cubic feet.
Domestic gas will, however, be supplemented, beginning in 1987, by large scale
imports of natural gas from the USSR. Total known reserves of hard coal are
estimated at about 1 billion tons, all located in the north of Turkey
(Zonguldak). Coal production has been declining as operations move to deeper,
less accessible seams; in 1983 production was about 3.5 million tons,
equivalent to 2.2 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Proven and probable
lignite reserves are about 8 billion tons, but about half of this is of
extremely low quality (950-1,000 kcal/kg). Lignite production in 1983 was
about 20 million tons, equivalent to about 4.6 million toe. The economic
costs of domestic lignite appears to be very high, and, in some mines, not
competitive with imported coal. There is potential for geothermal
development, for both space heating and electricity generation. A foreign
company with extensive experience in geothermal power has recently undertaken
a technical review of a number of promising geothermal sites, and discussions
with the Government on possible terms and conditions for developing one of
these sites are currently in progress.
Main Agencies
1.04      The energy sector in Turkey is characterized by the dominance of
government-owned enterprises and agencies. The Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources (MENR) is responsible for the development of energy resources in
Turkey. Under MENR, the Turkish Coal Enterprise (TKI), the Turkish Petroleum
Company (TPAO), and the Mineral Research Institute (MTA) have responsibility
for the extraction of fossil fuels and radioactive minerals.  Identification,
design and construction of hydro projects is entrusted to the State Hydraulics
Authority (DSI). The Turkish Electricity Authority (TEC) is responsible for
the generation, transmission and, since November 1982, the distribution of
almost all the electricity sold in Turkey. TEK is also responsible for the
implementation of the Government's program for rural electrification and the
construction of all generating and transmission facilities, with the exception
of hydroelectric plants for which DSI has responsibility (see Chapter III).
1.05      Private sector participation in the supply of electricity was until
1983, cot fined to two small semi-private utilities (CEAS and KEPEZ) and
industrial companies which generated power for their own use, often in
conjunction with the production of steam for process heat. However, recent
shifts in government energy policy now give greater encouragement to private
sector participation in the development and production of energy (para.
2.16).



-3-
Demand and Supply
1.06      Total gross energy consumption was about 38 million toe in 1983, of
which commercial energy consumption amounted to about 30 million toe.
Petroleum made up the most significant share of primary commercial energy
(60%) with the balance made up of lignite (18%), hydropower (11%), coal (10%)
and imported electricity (1Z). About 24% of final commercial energy
consumption was in the form of electricity.  Non-commercial energy production
(primarily fuelwood, but also other biomass) was an important energy source,
accounting for 23% of total energy consumption. Imported energy (petroleum,
hard coal and electricity) represents about 45% of total energy supply.
Annex 1.1 presents energy balances for the period 1978-1983.
1.07      The most notable change in the pattern of energy consumption over
the past two decades has been the decrease in the relative share of hard coal
in total energy. This was accompanied by a rapid growth in consumption of
petroleum until the mid-1970s, peaking at over 50% in 1977/78; and a rapid
rise in the share of lignite (primarily for thermal power production) and
hydroelectric power consumption starting in the second half of the 1970's.
During this period, hard coal consumption stayed relatively constant in
absolute terms, while traditional biomass energy sources increased slightly in
absolute terms, but decreased steadily as a percentage of total energy
consumed.
1.08      The most important factors in the growth of energy demand will be
the growth rate of the economy as a whole, the growth rate of the
energy-intensive industrial sector of the economy, and the extent to which
Government implements an energy conservation and demand management program.
Bank estimates indicate that the growth rate of the economy would average
about 5.6% per annum during the 1980s and that the industrial sector would
grow slightly faster at about 7%. Under these projections and in the absence
of a vigorous demand management program, electricity demand is expected to
grow by over 200% between 1980 and 1990 to about 60,000 GWh; lignite demand
for thermal power plants would grow by almost tenfold to about 50 million
tons; and petroleum products demand would grow by 110% to 30 million tons of
oil equivalent. In total this would represent approximately 58 million toe,
an increase of over 8% per annum from 1983 (38 million toe). Hawever supply
constraints, especially in the lignite sector (para. 2.30) and in the power
sector (para. 2.03), will result in demand not being met, at least to 1990.
The energy deficit is estimated by 1990 to be in the region of 7-8 million toe.
1.09      There is, however, considerable scope for conservation of energy
particularly in the industrial sector which currently accounts for 40% of
total energy consumption and this is expected to rise to 45% by 1990. The
industrial sector also consumes 64% of total electricity supplied.
Furthermore eight industries 21 account for 40% of total industrial energy
1/ Iron and steel, cement, fertilizer, pulp and paper, glass, brick,
aluminum, copper.



- 4 -
consumption, from which it has been estimated that almost 1 million toe could
be saved through investment in conservation. The total estimated potential
energy savings in the industrial sector, including a large number of
eneigy-inefficient small industries, is about 2.4 million toe. There is
therefore an urgent requirement for an energy conservation program in Turkey
(para. 1.10).
1.10      The Government is in the process of developing a program for the
conservation of energy by encouraging efficient use in existing and new
industrial enterprises. Energy efficiency programs and legislation have been
evaluated by both the MENR and the SPO, and legislation has already been
passed which allows for tax credits for various types of investments in energy
efficiency improvements. The Government has initiated programs to assist
industrial firms to learn how to improve their energy efficiency in existing
operations. The Bank included technical assistance for energy audits in
selected manufacturing facilities as part of the assistance to the Government
under Loan 1916-TU. These audits have now been completed and the Bank is
currently reviewing their findings with a view to financing a conservation
project. The findings of the energy audit on the Anbarli Electric Power Plant
have been used as the basis for preparing a subcomponent of the proposed
System Operations Assistance Project. TEK has also hired consultants to
assist in the development of an energy conservation and load management
program (para. 2.21).
Energy Policy
1.11      To meet its energy requirements Turkey launched a massive program in
the late 1970's to increase the domestic production of electricity and
lignite. This program tended to stretch the implementation capabilities of
the state energy agencies, and spread the resources available too thinly over
too many projects, with resulting long delays in completion schedules. This
has, in turn, resulted in an energy deficit which is likely to remain a
feature of the Turkish economy at least through the 1980's (para. 1.08). MENR
and TEK are currently in the process of improving their energy planning
capabilities (para. 2.21) and MENR has produce/ Turkey's first energy policy
paper.  The recent Five-Year Development Plan M  contains the following
energy sector objectives:
-     priority is to be given to domestic sources of energy, especially,
hydro and lignite, provided that they are economically justified;
-     imported energy including, but not limited to oil, will be
considered;
-     renewable and nonconventional resources such as geothermal, solar
and biogas are to be supported; and
1/ V. Bes Yillik Kalkinma Plani 1985-1989, State Planning Organization, June
1984



-    private sector financing, both local and foreign, will be sought for
participation in energy development.
1.12     One feature of Government which represents a departure from previous
energy policy concerns the expanded role of the private sector in the
development and production of energy. Government policy is now quite clearly
to encourage private sector participation in the energy sector. There are now
no legal constraints to private sector g^neration, and private utilities
(KEPEZ and CEAS) have plans to increase their capacities. In addition, the
State Planning Organization (SPO) is currently undertaking, with assistance
from consultants, preliminary studies to assess whether private financiers
could be sought to construct and operate thermal plants based upon imported
fuels (coal, nuclear) and geothermal. Over the long term this could have a
fundamental bearing on the financing, staffing and planning of the subsector
(para. 2.16).
Bank Strategy
1.13     The Bank has prepared and discussed with Government an Energy
Assessment Study as well as subsector studies on electricity and lignite_1/.
In addition, under SAL V Government agreed to develop and discuss with the
Bank an energy action plan and MENR has instructed the individual energy
institutions to prepare detailed medium term action programs (para. 2.11). As
an ongoing part of our policy dialogue the Bank prepared an energy sector
strategy paper on strategy and actions required in the energy sector. In
discussions of this paper agreement was reached with the Government and
related energy institutions on the content, analysis and scope of the issues
facing the energy sector (para. 2.12).
1.14     The strategy for Bank lending and operational work in the energy
sector is to focus on selected key issues in the medium term in order that
projects may be brought on stream as rapidly as possible and the efficiency of
existing energy producing facilities be maximized. The magnitude of the
looming energy supply gap (para. 1.08) is such that priority should be
accorded to projects aimed at reducing the deficit as soon as possible.
Projects with relatively short gestation periods such as improvement of
efficiency within existing facilities, industrial conservation, reduction of
energy leakages, and utilization of energy resources which can be brought on
stream rapidly, should have priority. Furthermore the private sector may well
offer opportunities for developing energy resources more rapidly than the
public sector, and emphasis will be given to investments which may increase
private sector participation.
1/  See  Turkey:  Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (Blue Cover)
3877-TU, dated March 1983
Turkey: Electricity Planning and Investment (Green Cover) 5031-TU,
dated June 22, 1984. (EPI)
Turkey: Coal and Lignite Subsector:. The Analysis of Sectoral
Development Prospects and Main Issues (Green Cover) 5021-TU,
dated September 18, 1984.



- 6 -
1.15      In conjunction with the strategy to address the key medium term
issues the Bank will also emphasize the strengthening of the various energy
institutions through technical assistance in training, manpower development,
technical, economic and financial planning and project management. Finally,
the open and constructive policy discussions between Government and the Bank
undertaken in conjunction with SAL V (para. 1.13) will be continued on a
regular and sustained basis and should provide a continuing policy framework
within which both project lending and the development of a robust project
pipeline can proceed.



- 7 -
II. THE ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
System Characteristics
2.01     The present (1984) installed power capacity in Turkey is about 7,600
MW of which 3,500 MW (50%) is thermal and the balance hydro. The share of
hydro power has increased over the past ten years from 33% in 1972 to about
502 in 1984. On the thermal side lignite has made an increasing contribution
to the production of electricity. Total gross generation in 1984 was about
30,000 GWh, of which 'EK accounted for almost 90X and this was supplemented by
2,500 GWh imported electricity from Bulgaria and the USSR. This was less than
the potential effective demand, estimated at 35,000 GWh. There is
considerable evidence that power shortages have caused cutbacks in production
in industries such as cement, textiles and paper. In addition to the capacity
constraint, the high level of total system losses (technical losses plus
unaccounted for energy), at about 20%,_ contributed to the supply shortages.
2.02     Demand Forecast.  Growth in demand has averaged about 9% per annum
over the period 1965-1983. Between 1970 and 1983 the percentage of population
with public electricity supply rose from 51% to 78%. Per capita consumption
of electricity is currently about 550 kWh. The current medium and long-term
forecasts, prepared in connection with TEK's long-term generation plan
(1987-2005) are based upon the relationship between electricity consumption
and industrial output- They show total energy demand (GWh) growing at about
10% per annum to 1990 and peak demand (MW) increasing at about 8Z. Beyond
1990 TEK project a growth in peak demand of about 9.5% per annum and about 9%
per annum in energy. This implies a continuation of the high (1.6-1.8)
elasticities with respect to GDP and sectoral (primarily industrial) growth
rates. These are higher than in many other industrializing countries (e.g.
Korea, Hungary, Singapore) which have been able to reduce electricity demand
significantly by implementing a program of demand management. Given the
difficulty Turkey has faced in expanding electricity supply (para. 2.09) it is
critical that efforts be made to bring about lower demand elasticities. A
program of demand management implemented in parallel with a program to improve
efficiency and plant availability within the electricity subsector could
produce significant savings in investment over the medium to long term
(para. 2.17). Annex 2.1 presents a summary of the long term demand forecasts.
2.03     Generation.  Annex 2.2 gives details of the forecast electric energy
and capacity balances. The forecast was prepared by the Bank on the basis of
an updated implementation schedule, likely slippages in the commissioning of
1/ This compares with losses of about 10% in a well designed and operated
transmission and distribution network.



some hydro or thermal power plants and a review of potential fuel supply
bottlenecks, especially in the lignite sector. The installed capacity is
expected to grow from about 8,000 KW in 1985 to almost 15,000 MW by 1990, with
the share of hydropower remaining constant at about 53%. Assuming average
water flows, the share of hydropower in total generation is expected to be
between 65% and 702 over the period. This estimate is, however, dependent on
the extent to which lignite supply constrains the availability of thermal
generation. The Bank assumed that it would take up to four years for major
lignite mines to meet full power plant requirements. Any improvement in the
lignite mines' abilities to supply lignite would have a major impact upon
increasing generation from the thermal plants (para. 2.30). However, it is
unlikely that the projected generation expansion to 1990 will be able to meet
the system's energy requirements (GWh), even under average hydrological
conditions and with imports of up to 2,500 GWh per annum from Bulgaria and
USSR.
2.04     All new thermal power plants, under construction or proposed in the
investment program, would use lignite for power generation, with the exception
of a coal-fired plant to replace an old unit at Catalagzi, a small pilot (18
MW) geothermal plant, and a new 600 MW combined cycle plant located near
Istanbul to utilize domestic gas (Ramitabat) and imported gas (USSR).
2.05     Given the shortfall in supply (para. 2.03) the forecast of
electricity sales has been derived from the Bank's projections of available
generation. Under this forecast, TEK's sales would increase at an annual
average rate of about 12% to reach almost 50,000 GWh by 1990 (Annex 2.2,
Attachment 1). It is estimated that by the early 1990s the electricity system
would be in equilibrium and generation would be adequate to meet projected
demand.
2.06     Transmission.  The salient feature of the Turkish transmission system
is that the largest load centers are located at considerable distances from
the existing and/or committed major power plants, most of which are to be
located in the far east or south west of the country. For technical reasons
of system stability and reliability, there is a need for a more geographically
balanced system, especially in European Turkey (Thrace) where the system is
particularly vulnerable. Greater flexibility could be afforded to the system
by the installation of additional capacity in the Istanbul area. Government
has recently approved the construction of a combined cycle power plant (600
MW) located at Hamitabat, some 100 kms from Istanbul, to utilize indigenous
natural gas. TEK is also to undertake a feasibility study, to be financed
under the proposed Power System Operations Assistance Project, for an
additional combined cycle power plant of 1,000 MW located in Thrace and fueled
by natural gas.
2.07     Distribution and Village Electrification.  Since 1982 TEK has been
responsible for urban distribution (para. 3.02). Prior to the TEK takeover
the municipalities were responsible for urban electrification. During the



- 9 -
1970s there was a sharp decline in the share of investment in urban
distribution, from 14% of total subsector investment in 1975 to 6% in 1979
despite an urban population growth rate of almost twice the national average.
Problems of underinvestment were compounded by the fact that many
municipalities practiced cross subsidization of services, utilizing revenues
from urban electricity sales to finance other services. This resulted in a
deterioration in the physical condition of the urban networks and high
losses. Recent estimates by TEK place losses at 1,500 GWh, of which pilferage
and illegal connections account for about 500 GWh and technical losses the
balance. Almost 1,000 GWh of total losses occur in the three largest urban
areas, Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. Rehabilitating the urban networks should
be accorded greater priority than hitherto since it would provide a
cost-effective and rapid way to increase the capacity of the system. TEK has
hired consultants (EdF, France) to assist in identifying losses and to prepare
an investment program for the urban networks. Izmir has been selected by TEK
for the development of the first comprehensive investment masterplan.
2.08     The village electrification program forms part of Government's social
policy of providing basic services to rural areas, especially to those
provinces designated as least developed and most impoverished. As such,
Government objectives are geared to regional development, equity
considerations and poverty alleviation rather than either financial cost
recovery or economic efficiency. By the end of 1984, about 70% of the
villages had been connected to the national system, and the target is to
electrify the balance by the end of 1990.
Sectoral Development 1971-1984
2.09     The Turkish power sub-sector has been confronted with problems of
major proportions. Electricity supply has been insufficient to meet demand in
every year since 1971, resulting in high costs to the economy, as imports
increased and supply interruptions became more frequent.  The shortfalls in
supply are attributed mainly to institutional problems, especially the
shortage of qualified staff in the public sector agencies responsible for
planning and implementing the development of the electricity sub-sector, and
shortages of local funding resources. This has resulted in project delays,
consequent substantial cost escalations, chronic power shortages, frequent and
protracted power plant breakdowns due to inadequate maintenance, and high
system losses. The shortages of qualified staff in TEK has resulted in
resources, spread too thinly over too many projects in the investment
program. Government has, however, now recognized many of these problems and
is actively addressing them.
B. GOVERNMENT'S NEW STRATEGY
2.10     Meeting electricity demand in Turkey will require a major coordinated
effort on behalf of the major agencies in the subsector since it will require



- 10 -
that the country bring on stream three times more capacity in the 1980s than
in the 1970s and sustain that momentum throughout most of the 1990s.
Furthermore it will require that scarce resources be tied up in technologies
new to the country (e.g. gas based generation, geothermal, nuclear) and in
projects of a size unprecedented in the country.
2.11     The Government is however, comnitted to a program to deal with the
issues faced by the electricity sector and plans to focus particularly on the
medium term issues of expanding output, maximizing efficiency and, in line
with the Government's structural adjustment program, curtailing the country's
oil import bill. MENR has instructed all the individual energy institutions
to prepare detailed medium term action programs to address the following
priority issues:
(a) managerial aad institutional improvements, in particular the
strengthening of planning, project selection and project management
capabilities through increased training and technical assistance;
(b) the completion of ongoing priority projects in the electricity
subsector and in lignite mines to supply key thermal plants;
(c) the upgrading of existing facilities with special reference to
improving operational efficiency, retrofitting of plant and provision
of adequate spare parts;
(d) evaluation and implementation of a broader range of alternative
energy supplies including natural gas, imported coal, and geothermal;
(e) energy conservation, including the identification of investments and
pricing policies to increase the efficiency with which energy is both
produced and consumed; and
(f) an increased role for the private sector, particularly in the
construction and operation of power plants and operation of lignite
mines.
2.12     In the electric power subsector both Government and TEK have
recognized the nature and scope of the issues outlined in para. 2.09 and
progress toward resolving many issues has been made. Paras. 2.13 to 2.31
below indicate actions taken or planned.
Institutional Development
2.13     Maintenance and operation of the power system. The exigencies of
maintaining supply at all costs has resulted in TEK abandoning a systematic
maintenance plan for thermal power stations. This in turn has led to frequent
and often protracted outages as well as major losses in plant efficiency and
output. TEK has increased the allocation for equipment for operations,



- 11 -
maintenance and spare parts, as well as speciaLized training in power plant
and network maintenance. The proposed Bank financed Power Systpms Operations
Assistance Project will result in improved operational efficiency and will
develop manpower skills for operations and maintenance within TEK.
2.14     Project management.  Inadequate project management has resulted in
considerable delays in implementation and consequent high costs to the economy
as project costs have escalated and supply shortages increased. Greater
emphasis is being placed upon the development of strong project management
teams utilizing both local and foreign expertise, increased autonomy at the
project management level, especially on financial, procurement and personnel
matters, and greater selectivity to ensure that high caliber teams are
recruited. Initiatives taken by TEK have included a full project management
contract for the construction of the Thrace Combined Cycle Plant and greater
management autonomy at the Elbistan site. Furthermore, the establishment of
ELTEM-TEK, a publicly owned local consulting firm which remains outside civil
service payscales, offers opportunities to recruit experienced engineering
manpower, both local and foreign, for specific tasks including project
management.
2.15     Manpower Development.  Inadequate manpower planning, including the
lack of a comprehensive training staff improvement program, has hindered both
the recruitment and retention of qualified staff. In addition TEK's training
centers are in poor condition and suffer from inadequate and outdated
equipment. TEK has recently hired consultants (Ontario Hydro, Canada) under
Bank Loan 2322-TU to assist in the development of a manpower and training plan
focusing particularly on power plant operations and maintenance. Further
details on manpower development and training including Bank assistance are
given in paras. 3.08 to 3.11.
2.16     An Increased Role for the Private Sector.  Government policy is now
directed towards encouraging a greater role for the private sector in all
aspects of the electricity subsector activities. The objectives are to ease
the manpower and staffing problems in the public sector, improve project
management, and mobilize private financing. TEK can now share ownership in
electric power and mining projects through "participations", in which TEK
would hold from 15% to 50Z of shares, or in "affilitate partnerships", in
which TEK would hold a majority of the shares. As of early 1985, TEK had
received about twenty proposals from the private sector to enter into these
types of joint ventures, mostly for construction of hydropower plants.
Construction of an imported coal-fired station, for which the Government has
requested proposals from three foreign comDanies, may also be financed through
this mechanism, with TEK taking part as a minority shareholder. Decisions on
these proposals are pending the Goverrment establishing a policy for setting
the electricity tariffs for sales from the public/private ventures to TEK.
Furthermore a recent law (Law 3096) allows utilities and other companies,
designated as entrusted companies, to construct and operate generating
facilities and to have full responsibility for electricity distribution and



- 12 -
sales within a concession area. The pilot case for the creation of an
entrusted company is the application of CEAS to become a fully integrated
utility. A decision on this matter is expected from Government in mid-1985.
Pricing and Demand Management
2.17     Studies on the potential for demand management and load shedding,
including the effect on peak demand and growth in connections by TEK, have
just been started (para. 2.21). While load management policies would have
relatively little impact upon energy demand, they could affect peak demand by
up to 10%. This would represent a major investment saving and a load
management program is an urgent requirement. Demand management can be
achieved through both an appropriate pricing policy (para. 2.19-2.20) and by
non-pricing mechanisms (e.g., ripple control, contracted interruptible
supplies).
2.18     Pricing Policy.  Bulk electricity tariffs are close to the long-run
marginal costs of bulk supply (LRMC) but do not yet fully reflect the
structure of LRHC. TEK has hired consultants (EdF, France) to assist them in
preparing a tariff study on the long run marginal cost of supplying
electricity at both the bulk and retail level. The Bank has monitored closely
progress of the study and its preliminary findings were discussed with TEK in
the course of project supervision. The consultants have prepared a draft
report on bulk supply tariffs and are currently analyzing the retail tariff
level and structure, although no preliminary re?ort has yet been prepared.
Annex 2.3 presents a summary of tne study's findings so far. The final
results and recommendations on an appropriate level and structure of
electricity tariffs (including those at the retail level) are expected in July
1985, and will be implemented fully following discussion with the Bank, as
already agreed under Loan 2322-TU.
2.19     However, in line with Government policy to price energy products
closer to their respective economic costs, bulk tariffs were increased from
1982 to 1984 by about 13% in real terms. TEK's consultants (para. 2.18)
estimated that average bulk supply tariff (TL 19/kWh as of January 1985)
represented about 65Z-70% of the LRMC of electricity supply at high voltage,
estimated at about TL 26/kWh (adjusted to January 1985 prices). Following
further tariff increases effective January 1, March 1 and April 1, 1985, bulk
tariffs (including all taxes and charges collected by TEK) were estimated at
85%-902 of LRHC as of April 1, 1985 (Annexes 5.1 and 5.2). This represents a
considerable improvement over the past two years; at the time of the previous
Bank appraisal in May 1983 (TEK Transmission III, Loan 2232-TU), bulk tariffs
were about 50% of LRMC. Furthermore, the introduction in June, 1984 of a
time-of-day differential in the tariff schedule also brings tariffs closer to
the structure of marginal costs and, once fully implemented, should help
correct imbalances in the pattern of electricity consumption. The Bank will
continue to discuss with Government required increases to maintain and improve
the structure and level of electricity tariffs.



- 13 -
2.20     Load Research and Demand Management.  A major constraint in
identifying the costs and benefits of a load management program has been the
inadequate data base upon which to prepare demand projections. Furthermore
TEK staff has not been adequately trained in demand forecasting techniques nor
in identifying and analyzing various demand management strategies. To address
this problem TEK recently hired consultants (GOPA Consortium, Germany) under
Bank Loan 2322-TU to assist them in developing a program of load research,
demand management and conservation. The technical assistance includes the
design of a system for the collection and storage of data, the development and
testing of models to project energy and peak demand (short, medium and long
term projections), the simulation of load management strategies including
measurement of likely costs and benefits of alternative strategies, training
of TEK staff and the preparation of recommended actions for a load management
program. The work of the consultants is to be closely coordinated with the
tariff study (para. 2.18) so that the impact of pricing policiee on growth in
demand may be estimated.  The consultants started work in March 1985 and
completion is expected by the end of 1987, although progress reports during
the various phases of the work will provide recommendations for specific
actions. The Bank will work closely with TEK and the consultants to ensure
that pricing policy, demand management and system planning (demand forecasting
and supply analysis) are fully integrated.
Electricity Planning
2.21     TEK is, and has been since its creation, overwhelmed by the immediate
problems of coping with increasing demand, problems that have preoccupied
senior management to the detriment of forward looking strategies. As a
consequence little effort has, in the past, been made to upgrade TEK's
planning skills. However, agreement has been reached with the Bank on a
comprehensive system planning training program with MENR and TEK. Training is
to be given in system planning using the WASP!' model and in demand
forecasting using the MAED!/ model. Both models have been developed by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the training program is provided
under their auspices. The latter will be fully coordinated by TEK's Planning
and Coordination Department with the demand management study outlined in
para. 2.20.
2.22     Results of the exercises are expected in early 1986 and the task
force selected for training has completed its training using the WASP model.
LAEA experts will visit TEK periodically throughout 1985 to assist in the
implementation of the training program. Improved planning would ensure that
significant opportunities to maximize supply over the medium term are realized
(e.g., reduction of system losses, coordination of the investment program,
1/ WASP - Wien Automatic System Planning Model.
2/ MAED - Model for Analysis of Energy Demand.



- 14 -
demand management, rehabilitation of plant currently derated, etc.) as well as
identifying a long-term least-cost expansion program for the subsector. TEK
is to prepare a report by early 1986 of the proposed long term generation plan.
2.23     One area of system planning where technical and cost data could be
significantly improved is in the hydro sub-sector. System planning is
hampered by the lack of a systematic inventory of hydroelectric resources and
a ranking of these resources based upon uniform technical criteria and
comparable economic and cost criteria. A hydro inventory study will be
included in a forthcoming Bank project (Kayraktepe, FY86) and once completed
would allow the optimal design and development, scheduling and construction of
hydro plants with consequent major savings in investment. The results of this
study would provide additional information to a subsequent round of expansion
planning exercises.
C. MEDIUM-TERM INVESTMENT
2.24     There is considerable uncertainty surrounding likely resource
availability for power investment in the period up to 1990. In view of this a
set of investment scenarios was developed for the appraisal on the basis of
information available to the Bank on physical progress and likely costs of
ongoing projects as well as new projects likely to enter the investment
program. The investment scenarios will also be used for discussion with the
Turkish authorities, to assist them in formulating and understanding the
financial implications of subsector requirements and to improve their
investment planning. The financial implications of the investment scenarios
are discussed fully in paras. 5.25 to 5.34.
2.25     Scenario "A".  As part of the short- to medium-term planning process
both TEK and DSI prepare annual investment budgets for submission to SPO and
Government. Currently there is no requirement for TEK and DSI to prepare a
medium-term (e.g., three to five years) projection of expenditures. However,
TEK and DSI were requested by the Bank to provide projections, in line with
the timing of the 5th Five-Year Plan, of capital investment requirements to
cover the period 1985-1989. (See Scenario "A" in Table 2.1). The projections
were discussed in detail with the Bank and a summary and commentary on this
Scenario "A", are given in Annex 2.2. On the basis of these discussions the
Bank prepared alternative scenarios of projected investment.
2.26     Scenario "B" was based upon the national investment requirements for
electric power during the 1985-1989 period and did not distinguish between
public and private investment. This was prepared in view of the current
uncertainty regarding the scope and likely role of public versus private
investment in electric power development. While the projections of required
investment in Scenario "B" are consistent with present demand estimates, it
was not constrained by resource availability, nor by the implementation
capacity of either the public or private sector.



- 15 -
2.27     Scenario "C" was based upon the minimum requirements for completion
of high priority projects and took into account likely completion dates of
generation projects, a limited number of potential new generation projects
entering the program and the requirements for the components of the program
other than generation.
2.29     Scenario "D" was developed, based not upon a detailed project by
project review of investment requirements but rather on the estimated
availability of resources. It was assumed that the increases in both
Government contributions to investment and foreign borrowing would be
restrained to about 4% per annum in real terms and that, in line with
Government's pricing policy (para. 2.18), tariffs would continue to increase
in real terms to reach and maintain levels equivalent to LRMC. As shown in
Table 2.1, on this basis TEK would be able to finance the completion of all
ongoing projects (Scenario "C") and provide funds for expansion although not
up to the full requirements of the sector (Scenario "B"). Scenario "D" was
considered the base case for the financial projections (paras. 5.31-5.34).
Table 2.1
Electric Power Investment Scenarios
(TL billions)a/
(In Mid-1984 Prices)
1985-89
Scenario               1985    1986        1987    1988    1989    Total
A. TEK/DSI projection            600      973       936      987   1,195      4,691
B. National Investment to
meet Demand               600      850      1,075   1,200   1,300       5,025
C. Adjusted to ensure, at
minimum, completion
of high priority
projects                  600      698        674     702      741     3,415
D. Public investment
based upon estimated
resource availability    589       684        810     974   1,054      4,111
a/ TL 350 = US$1



- 16 -
2.29     There is inadequate coordination of the investment programs of TEK
and TKI. Further delays in the implementation of several lignite mining
projects to supply fuel fo-r thermal power plants remain a problem. Unless
resolved this would result in substantial delays in electric power
availability and consequent' perpetuation of supply shortages continuing into
the early 1990s and beyond. The Bank has prepared a subsector study on the
lignite subsector (op cit) which identified the major problems faced by the
subsector (poor planning, inadequate project management and inadequate
financial management). The study has not yet been discussed with Government.
The recent Technical Assistance Project for State Economic Enterprises (Loan
2400-TU) includes funds for two studies to improve TKI's project management
and implementation capabilities, although consultants have not yet been hired.
2.30     To ensure the rational design of the medium term investment program,
agreement was be reached during negotiations to undertake, as part of the
ongoing energy policy dialogue, an annual joint Bank and Government review of
the electric power investment program and related financing plans. This would
include a review, by October 31 of each year, with Bank and representatives of
MENR, TEK, SPO and Treasury of the proposed annual investment program for the
power subsector and the required investments and related financing plans for
the medium-term (five-year) period. The format and content of the information
for such a review would be discussed between the Bank and MENR during
supervision and would be undertaken with a view to identifying project
priorities, realistic completion dates and adequacy of electric power
investment levels and finance.
D. BANK'S ROLE IN THE POWER SUBSECTOR
-.31     The two proposed Projects being processed in parallel!/  would be
the sixteenth and seventeenth Bank operations in the power subsector in
Turkey. The Bank has made eleven loans and a technical assistance grant
(total US639.7 million), and IDA has granted three credits (total US$55.7
million).  These comprise loans/credi.s for four hydroelect-ic projects; two
thermal power stations (oil- and lignite-fired); a lignite mine; and several
for transmission and distribution networks. The technical assistance grant
helped reorganize Turkey's power subsector. The first five loans/credits were
for projects in the CEAS concession area. All these projects were completed
successfully, although often with long delays. The Bank has made four
previous loans to TEK, for the First, Second and Third Power Transmission
Projects, and for the Elbistan Mine and Power Project.
2.32     A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR), distributed to the Board
in November 1981, on the Keban Transmission (Loan 568-TU) and the first TEK
1/ The Fourth TEK Transmission Project and the Power System Operations
Assistance Project.



- 17 -
Power Transmission (Loan 763-TU) projects found that these projects had met
their physical objectives despite implementation delays and cost overruns. A
Project Completion Report on the Istanbul Powwer Distribution Project (Loan
892-TU), distributed to the Board in December 1982, also reported physical
completion of the Project after considerable delay. Major constraints to
timely project completion were identified as shortage of local counterpart
finance and, in the case of Loan 892-TU, late preparation of bidding
documents. A major conclusion of the TEK II (Loan 1194-TU) Project Completion
Report was the need for improvement in the monitoring and coordination of the
Project. The Report recommended the establishment of a single unit within TEK
to be accountable for project implementation. Such a monitoring unit has now
become a feature of project design in Bank financed power projects in Turkey.
For example, ELTEM-TEK was hired by TEK to assist in monitoring all aspects of
the Third TEK Transmission Project (Loan 2232-TU). Procurement and physical
implementation of this project, which includes about 1500 km of 380-kV lines,
are proceeding on schedule.
2.33     The Bank played a major role in the consolidation of the power sector
and in the creation of TEK. The Bank has since then continued to advocate
needed institutional reforms and has met with some success in its endeavors to
assist in strengthening the institutional capabilities of the subsector.
Substantial progress has been made in some areas, e.g., improvements in TEK's
accounting system, in system planning, and in procurement procedures.
Furthermore, the Bank has assisted in attracting funds from other bilateral
and international financing agencies (e.g., EIB, German Aid (KfW), US
EXIMBANK).
2.34     The Bank has, through its sector work program, provided guidance and
assistance in sector planning and pricing policy. The Energy Strategy Paper
(op cit) and the Electricity Planning and Investment Report (op cit) discussed
with the Government and energy sector agencies including TEK have provided a
useful forum for a policy dialogue on the issues and constraints facing the
subsector. Policy level discussions with MENRJ TEK, DSI and SP0 have
continued to increase the awareness of those problems; and Bank guidance and
advice has frequently been sought on a number of operational and policy
questions.
2.35     Since it is not possible to address the full range of issues facing
the subsector it was recommended in the Energy Strategy Paper that attention
be given to a selected number of hign priority issues where the Bank could
have an appreciable impact. The strategy for assisting the power subsector is
in line with the overall planned strategy for the energy sector as outlined in
para. 1.15 and includes focusing resources on investments which yield quick
returns (e.g., completion of priority ongoing investments, upgrading of
existing facilities, reduction in losses, improvements in efficiency etc.);
ensuring a balanced electric power development program with respect to
adequate investment in generation, transmission, distribution and general
plant; strengthening, through technical assistance, capabilities in planning,



- 18 -
financial management and manpower develoment; investment in new generation
options such as those based upon imported coal and natural gas; and increasing
the role of the private sector in the production of electricity.
2.36     The Bank has made a major effort at defining jointly with Government
a series of potential investments which would address the above medium-term
issues. In particular the Bank proposes, in addition to the two proposed
Projects, to finance, inter alia, a loan to ensure the completion of the
Elbistan Project, an urban distribution component of the proposed Energy
Policy Loan, a project with a private utility (CEAS), and a high priority
hydro project (Kayraktepe). Project lending aimed at alleviating the
medium-term problems faced by the subsector will be supported judiciously by
technical assistance and sector work in a number of key areas such as planning
and financial management.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT ENTITY
3.01      The borrower, TEK, has primary responsibility in Turkey for design
and construction of thermal generating plants, for operation of both thermal
and hydroelectric generating plants, and for construction and operation of the
national transmission system and distribution systems (para. 1.04). The
organization and scope of responsibilities of TEK have been altered recently
by a number of significant legal changes. TEK is now authorized to invest in
and operate lignite mines and geothermal fields to supply its power plants;
previously TKI was the only public enterprise authorized to own and operate
lignite mines. In parallel, the opportunities for private sector investment
in electric power have been expanded, removing TEK's previous near monopoly on
electricity generation and sales. TEK will continue to require the Bank's
assistance in institution-building. TEK is presently receiving technical
assistance in four areas as part of Loan 2322-TU (TEK Transmission III), as
follows; demand management and load analysis (para. 2.20); administration and
standardization of distribution operations (para. 3.07); manpower planning and
training (para. 3.10); and improvements in accounting and management
information systems (para. 5.23).
Legal Context
3.02      TEK presently operates as a Public Economic Establishment (PEE)
defined under Law 233 as a venture owned entirely by the Government which is
"public service-oriented and founded to produce and market basic goods and
services of a monopoly nature". TEK was originally established in 1970 with
its current mandate, but excluding urban electricity distribution which had
been then the responsibility of the municipalities. As part of the reform in
public enterprises, TEK's legal structure and organization were redefined
effective January 1, 1985. The new legislation affecting TEK is listed in
Annex 3.1. Urban distribution was then legally transferred to TEK in 1982,
with actual operation and control of these distribution facilities being
assumed in stages during 1983 and 1984. The objective of public enterprise
reform has been to permit greater autonomy and improved productivity, and in
fact the Government has recently been taking significant steps toward
increasing TEK's financial self-sufficiency (para. 5.01). However, TEK
continues to be subject to the State Personnel Law (No. 657), which restricts
management decisions on hiring, firing, salaries, and internal transfer of
staff. Revised legislation for Government employees is being drafted but the
timing for implementation is uncertain.
Organization and Management of TEK
3.03      Notwithstanding the recent reforms affecting public enterprises,
important managerial and organizational decisions continue to require
Government approval, and thus are not dealt with as quickly as would be the
case in a more autonomous utility. Furthermore, there are no board members



- 20 -
from the private sector who could represent the concerns of TEK's industrial
and private consumers. In the past fifteen years, TEK has had seven general
managers, normally appointed from within the company. The Board of Directors
of TEK is chaired by the General Manager, and includes five members: two
nominated by the MENR, one nominated by the Minister of Finance and two
nominated from among the six Assistant General Managers (AGMs) of TEK by the
Minister of Energy. The present organization of TEK is shown in Annex 3.2.
The responsibilities of the six AGMs were shifted in early 1985, and are
currently divided as follows:
(a)  Operations;  Generation, Transmission and Distribution;
(b)  Design and Construction of Generating Plants;
(c)  Design and Installation of Transmission Lines and Substations;
(d)  General Administration and Distribution Studies;
(e)  Planning, Training and Data Processing; and
(f)  Finance.
3.04     Some of the activities reporting to the AGM for Operations have
recently been classified as part of an "Operations Enterprise" within TEK,
which is to include generation and transmission operations and responsibility
for wholesale electricity sales to high-voltage customers and to TEK's
eighteen distribution enterprises. It is too soon to determine whether this
recent change will have a visible impact on TEK's operations.
3.05     Having historically emphasized centralized operations and
construction of new generating facilities in particular, the management of TEK
is still adjusting to the new requirements of overseeing distribution where
highly centralized decision-making is not desirable. Eighteen regional
electricity distribution enterprises were created in 1983 as separate
departments of TEK after the takeover of distribution from the municipalities
(para. 3.02). While, officially, each enterprise manager reports directly to
the General Manager, in practice they are required to report to two AGMs, to
one with regard to operations and to the other with regard to distribution
studies and project design. It would be advantageous to reallocate the
responsibilities of the AGMs so that one would be fully responsible for
coordinating distribution activities.
3.06     TEK's central office provides continuous monitoring and inspection of
the distribution enterprises, approves all personnel decisions, and determines
the allocation of investment resources among the regions. The distribution
enterprises are presently not authorized to seek outside financing. They are
charged by the parent company for electricity purchased at wholesale tariff
rates and for part of the overhead headquarters expenses associated with
distribution. Each enterprise is responsible for preparation of its annual
operating budget, drafting annual and long-term investment plans, and
preparation of annual financial statements. Full responsibility for the
design, execution and control of urban distribution and rural electrification
projects is only gradually being transferred from headquarters to the regional
enterprises.



- 21 -
3.07     A number of distribution enterprises are presently receiving
technical assistance on a pilot basis. A master plan for reduction of losses
and network expansion is being developed by TEK for the Ege Enterprise
(Izmir); improvement of the customer billing system is being introduced in one
district of the Bosphorus Enterprise (Istanbul); and, improvements in stock
control, general and customer accounting are being introduced to two
enterprises, Ege and Central Anatolia (Ankara).
Manpower Development and Training
3.08     The rapid expansion of electricity supply in Turkey has been
accompanied by an almost equally rapid increase in the number of people
employed by TEK. The total number of staff as of October 1984, was just over
55,000, of which 33,000 worked for TEK's Distribution Enterprises. This
represents an increase in staff of 15,000 over a two-year period, of which
11,000 were new distribution staff and 4,000 were added to other departments
of the utility. After distribution the next largest group, about 13,500, work
in operations. A breakdown of TEK's staff by department and by level of
training is shown in Annex 3.3.
3.09     Manpower planning for TEK as a whole is presently carried out only
one year at a time, although staffing requirements for new generating plants
are identified further in advance. The Personnel Department and the Training
Department do not report to the same AGM, which complicates coordination. TEK
has three technical training centers, the largest of which has extensive
laboratory capacity and models related to thermal electricity generatior.
However, much of the equipment is out of date and the training center is used
at less than full capacity largely due to the shortage of instructors.
Training materials dealing with transmission, distribution and overall system
reliability are lacking.
3.10     Some of these weaknesses are being addressed under TEK Transmission
III (Loan 2322-TU) which includes a thirty-four man-month contract with
Ontario Hydro (Canada) which began in January 1985. This technical assistance
component is addressing; manpower planning for generation, overseas training
of master instructors (in operation of generating plants, transmission and
control), training on plant commissioning; and improvement of the equipment at
the Soma B training center.
3.11     The proposed Project includes a training component, addressing the
specific requirements of the orerational and maintenance staff (pars. 4.06).
It is proposed to train experienced personnel in specific operational
techniques abroad, and to introduce in Turkey new advanced maintenance
techniques. Training overseas would be done at selected electric utilities
and at manufacturers' premises.
3.12     A parallel project to the proposed Project -  Fourth TEK
Transmission -- also includes a training component, addressing the specific
requirements of staff in design and construction of transmission lines and
substations.



- 22 -
General Characteristics of the TEK Power System (See Map IBRD 18846)
3.13     The large magnitude of the TEK power system can be appreciated by
considering the volume of the electric load supplied and the extension and
size of its physical facilities. In 1984 the peak load in TEK's power system
reached 5,450 MW and gross generation was 26,000 GWh (net 23,600 GWh). In the
same year TEK imported 2,500 GWh from Bulgaria and the USSR which gave a total
electric energy delivered to the TEK power transmission grid of 26,100 GWh.
Generation plus energy purchased, however, was not able to fully meet the
system's unrestrained energy demand (Annex 3.4).
3.14     Total rated capacity of TEK power plants in comercial operation in
1984 amounted to 6,330 KW. Adding the peak supply from Bulgaria and the USSR
-- 285 MW - the total capacity available reached 6,615 MW, to meet a system
constrained peak demand of 5,450 MW. This would give an apparent reserve
margin of 1,165 MW or 21Z. In fact, TEK had no actual reserve margin
available in 1984 and could not meet the system's constrained peak demand, due
to poor availability of its generating facilities (para. 3.20).
3.15     TEK's bulk transport system consists of a 380-kV National Grid System
that feeds into 154-kV grids. These 154-kV grids supply major power users and
feed into 66-kV, 35-kV, and 15-kV subtransmission grids. In 1984 there was a
total of 46,135 km of transmission a-id subtransmission lines. The composition
of this figure is given in Annex 3.4. TEK's substation plant in the
transmission grids consisted in 1984 of 368 transformer substations with 593
transformers, having an aggregated capacity of 15,798 HVA. In Annex 3.4 are
given the transformer capacities at the different voltage levels. Besides
power transformers, in these substations there were in 1984 a total of 34,569
major switchgear apparatus. A simary by voltage levels is given in Annex 3.4.
3.16     Low voltage distribution throughout Turkey is done at 50 Hz 220/380 V
three-phase with neutral grounded. Primary distribution voltages are 35kV,
15kV, 6kV and 3kV. In the 18 regional distribution enterprises under TEK, the
distribution systems consisted in 1984 of: 19,500 km of primary distribution
feeders at 35kV, 15kV and 6kV; 64,000 km of secondaries at 220/380 V; and
6,289 distribution transformers with an aggregated capacity of 4,730 MVA (more
than half of this distribution transformer capacity is installed in the
Bogazici Distribution Enterprise, which includes the city of Istanbul with
1,600,000 electricity consumers). A summary of distribution facilities in the
18 distribution enterprises is given in Annex 3.4.
Operational Area of TEK
3.17     TEl's operations are managed by an Assistant General Manager, and are
organized around five departments:
(a) Thermal Paver Plants Operations
(b) Hydroelectric Power Plants Operations
(c) Transmission Operations
(d) Distribution Operations
(e) Load Dispatching



- 23 -
Operation and maintenance of power plants is the responsibility of power plant
superintendents reporting to TEK's central operations offices in Ankara,
separately for thermal and for hydroelectric power plants. The Transmission
Operations Department operates through its central office in Ankara and eight
regional field operating divisions (see Map IBRD 18847). These field
operating divisions are in charge of the operation and maintenance of lines
and substations in their respective region. In total 182 line and substation
maintenance crews are located in the eight field operating divisions under the
direction of chief regional engineers. In addition, there are a number of
specialized maintenance groups (62 in total) for: (a) relay and measuring
instruments; (b) electronic equipment; (c) testing of major apparatus; (d)
system research; and (e) repair of defective equipment.
3.18     The operation and maintenance of the distribution systems is handled
by the 18 regional distribution enterprises (para. 3.05).
Operational Performance of TEK Power System
3.19     Turkey suffers from chronic power supply shortages and frequent
outages that in large part can be attributed to poor performance of TEK's
power generating facilities, high-level losses in distribution, and less than
satisfactory reliability of the transmission -d distribution systems. In
general, operating procedures are not up to date and maintenance less than
adequate. This state of affairs is in turn caused by insufficient maintenance
equipment and tools, and insufficient technical skills of the personnel
involved in operation and maintenance of the facilities. The proposed Project
would address these shortcomings. A suimnary of the operational performance of
TEK in the past five years (1980-84) is discussed in the following
paragraphs. Complete statistical data concerning outages (planned and
unplanned) in the different facilities operated by TEK in the five-year
1980-84 period are available in the project files.
3.20     Thermal Generation.  The operating performance of the six major steam
power stations in the five-year 1980-84 period which is presented in
Annex 3.4, illustrates a less than desirable situation. In these five years
availabilitv factors have been below accepted minimum levels (80% or 7,000
hours of availability per year), while efficiencies have been consistently
several percentage points below design efficiencies. Although the quality of
the lignite supplied to TEK is a source of problems because of large
fluctuations in heat value and quality, part of the poor performance is due to
inadequate maintenance and operating practices. The possible gains in
efficiency and availability are illustrated by the case of the Anbarli power
plant. In 1983 an energy audit was conducted of this power station and a
number of basic housekeeping measures were recommended by the consultants. 1/
These measures have been implemented and efficiency was raised from 34% to 38%
while availability rose from 64% to 77%. Just the improvement in efficiency
represents a saving of the order of US$36 million per year, due to lower fuel
1/ FICHTNER (Germany). The study was financed with funds provided under Loan
1971-TU for energy conservation studies.



- 24 -
oil consumption. The proposed Project addresses these issues by providing
funds for training in updated maintenance and operational techniques, tools,
equipment and spare parts; para. 4.03.
3.21     Hydro Generation.  During the past five years (1980-84) TEK's
hydroelectric power plants suffered an average of seven unplanned outages
involving major components of the stations' equipment and reducing power
supply by an average of 35 GWh per year. These outages can be classified as
follows:
Table 3.1
Hydroelectric Power Plants
No. of Unplanned Outages 1980-84    _
Generators                            20                      56
Turbines                              11                      30
Auxiliaries                            5                      14
Total                               36                     100
Some of these outages required considerable time for repairs and reduced the
power system's ability to meet the peak demand by an average 100 MW. The
Project addresses these problems by providing funds for training, tools, spare
parts and equipment; para. 4.03.
3.22     Of the 38 hydroelectric power stations operated by TEK, 25 were built
in the 1950's and 1960's and their turbine efficiencies should be below
efficiencies of units manufactured more recently. There is the possibility of
improving considerably the efficiency of these older units. Specific studies
are necessary at each location to ascertain if there is scope for
improvement. The proposed Project would address this issue by funding the
required studies, para. 4.03.
3.23     Transmission.  Turkey's rugged terrain and harsh climate,
particularly in the east, complicate considerably the operation and
maintenance of TEK's tranmission system. In the five-year period, 1980-84,
there were 29 incidents involving the collapse of transmission line towers
causing widespread outages throughout the country. In many instances, access
to the affected line is over difficult terrain and, in winter, over
snowrdrifts. An additional problem is frequent insulator outages during summer
caused by dust deposit on insulators in the arid regions of Anatolia. Rapid
access to all sections of the transmission system to perform repairs remains a
problem for the repair crews due to inadequate transport equipment,
particularly specialized vehicles. The proposed Project would provide
adequate means for fast intervention in case of outage. This would include
snow-tracked vehicles, vehicles with cranes for hoisting spare transmission
towers, vehicles with insulated work platforms for hot-line work, low-bed
trailers for transport of transmission towers steel and substations apparatus,
and tractors.



- 25 -
3.24     The statistics of outages assembled by TEK for the past five years,
1980-84, indicate that the forced outage rate per 100 km of transmission line
is relatively high compared to that experienced in other large power systems.
Although comparisons are difficult, because the outage rate is very
weather-specific, they indicate nevertheless the magnitude of the problem.
Comparing for instance, the outage rates in Turkey and those usually
experienced in large power systems, the figures are as follows;
Table 3.2
Forced Outage Rate Per 100 km of Line
Turkey                     Other Large
Voltage Level       1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   Power Systems
380            4.9      8.3     8.4      3.1     3.6          1.0
154            9.4    10.1      6.0     6.3      7.7         3.0
3.25     From the available statistics on forced outages of substations and
transmission and substransmission lines, it is estimated that in the five-year
1980-84 period these outages resulted in an average of about 100 GWh per year
of electricity not delivered to consumers. This can be partly attributed to
design problems. TEK has taken measures to improve insulation coordination
and lightning protection of substations, and has introduced more adequate
mechanical design for transmission lines, as well as the reinforcement of
existing lines exposed to heavy ice and wind loads in winter. In areas
exposed to contamination, TEK plans to introduce insulator-washing
operations. The Project addresses this problem by providing washing equipment
for lines and substations, and equipment and training for hot line maintenance
work;-Y para. 4.03. Nevertheless, there are problems with maintenance of
line and substation equipment due to inadequate and insufficient maintenance
and test equipment and insufficient training of personnel in specific areas.
The Project addresses these problems through provision of test and maintenance
equipment, insulating oil-testing and purification equipment, heat detectors
for detection of faulty circuit breakers and disconnecting switch contacts,
and training; para. 4.03.
3.26     The power factor at the 35-kV level is presently around 0.80.  This
low power factor causes additional losses along the power system in
transformer substations and transmission lines and utilizes generation
capacity to feed these losses. Judicious application of capacitors can
improve the situation by compensating the lagging reactive power at the
subtransmission level. TEK has determined that about 865 MVAR are needed in
59 154kV/35kV substations to obtain this compensation at the current peak
demand of 2000 MW on distribution systems. A number of capacitors are in the
1/ The technique of working on electric lines while energized.



- 26 -
process of being installed (total capacity 305 MVAR), and 560 MVAR in
additional capacitors are needed. A detailed list of substations and
capacitors required is available in project files. The Project addresses this
problem by providing 560 MVAR of additional shunt capacitors and their
auxiliary switching equipment. The aim is to raise the power factor to 0.95,
which would release about 300 MW of generation capacity under present system
conditions. See para. 3.29 for power factor correction in distribution
systems.
3.27     Distribution.  Complete statistics on forced outages in distribution
are still not available on a uniform basis. Incomplete data exist only for
some of the major distribution systems (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir). Frequent
and prolonged electricity supply outages are commonplace in most large urban
areas. Outages lasting between 30 and 60 minutes are frequent (264 in
Istanbul in 1984), and involve feeders and distribution substations, causing
supply interruptions to large groups of consumers. The perception of
precarious reliability in the distribution of electricity in Turkey is
supported by the data so far available. The main reasons for this situation
are, in many instances, the poor physical condition of the distribution
systems and the age of facilities. The Project addresses these problems by
providing funds for urgent rehabilitation, particularly for poles, for special
vehicles and tools for prompt intervention in case of outages, and equipment
for fault location in underground cables; para. 4.03.
3.28     The level of technical losses in distribution is between 12% and 15%,
which is high by modern stardards.-Y These losses can be reduced by
increasing the capacity of the distribution facilities, particularly
distribution transformer and feeders. (Master plans for reduction of losses
and expansion of the distribution systems are underway; para. 3.13.) It is
considered economically feasible to reduce losses to about half of what they
are now, but this will require considerable investment in the coming years.
TEK is planning substantial investments in this area in the next five years.
To assist TEK in controlling losses, the Project would provide an adequate
number of meter test stands to be installed in appropriate locations in the
territories of the distribution enterprises. In addition, the Project would
provide telecontrol equipment for street lighting switching and for
peak-shaving.
3.29     Power factors in distribution systems throughout Turkey are generally
below normally acceptable levels-2 This situation is due to: (a) the sale
of fluorescent lighting devices without proper reactive compensation; (b) the
use of oversized electric motors in industries; and (c) widespread overloading
of primary feeders, distribution transformers, and secondaries. The strategy
1/ In most industrial countries, technical losses in distribution are between
5Z and 6% in well maintained systems.
2/ Between 0.90 and 0.95.



- 27 -
to deal with this problem comprises several coordinated measures, which can be
summarized as follows:
(a) strict application of standards for power compensation of fluorescent
lighting devices;
(b) application of reactive energy charges to industrial consumers;
(c) preparation by EdF of technical and economic methodology to determine
the level of power factor correction along the distribution systems
components; and
(d) preparation of pilot studies for specific distribution system.
A pilot study was recently completed for a small distribution system
(Adapazari), and another study is now underway for a large distribution system
(Izmir). These pilot studies would be used as examples for similar studies in
distribution systems throughout Turkey. The projects based on these studies
would be implemented by the different distribution enterprises as they become
available.



- 28 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Relation to Subsector Strategy
4.01     A key recommendation made by the Bank in policy discussions with the
Government is that priority should be accorded to upgrading and improving both
the efficiency with which existing electric power facilities are utilized, and
their availability. The Government agrees with this approach and is putting
the highest interest in improving the performance of the TEK power system.
There is considerable scope for cost reduction through efficiency and
availability improvements by providing better equipm it maintenance and faster
response to outages. Insufficient attention to maintenance and to operation
procedures has led to the urgent need of rehabilitating certain power
facilities.
4.02     The main objectives of the proposed Project are:  (a)  to improve the
availability and efficiency of TEK's power generation facilities; (b) to
improve the reliability of the transmission and distribution systems; (c) to
improve availability of transmission and distribution facilities by prompt
response intervention to restore service in case of outages, and by the
introduction of hotline maintenance and outage prevention techniques; (d) to
reduce power system losses by the judicious application of reactive power
compensating equipment; and (e) to help control peak power demand by means of
peak-shaving techniques. The Project seeks to equip the operational area of
TEK with the tools, instruments, equipment, spares, techniques, and training
needed to enhance the operation and maintenance of its generation,
transmission, and distribution facilities. The proposed Project is part of
the government strategy for the development of the power subsector.
Project Scope and Description
4.03     The proposed Project will assist all areas of TEK's po.-er system
operations during a four-year period (1986-1989) and consists of:
(a) the supply of tools, work and transport automotive equipment, test
and measurement instruments, spares and materials for rehabilitation,
maintenance, and operation of thermal (high pressure steam piping,
superheater tubes, etc.) and hydroelectric power plants;
(b) the supply of specialized vehicles (e.g., snow cats, specially
equipped service vehicles, line and substation washing-equipped
vehicles), tools, work and transport equipment, test and measurement
instruments(including insulating oil testing and purification
equipment and meter test stands), spares and materials for
rehabilitation, maintenance and repair of the transmission and
distribution systems;
(c) the supply and installation of telecontrol equipment for load
management in Turkey's major cities (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir);



- 29 -
(d) the supply and installation of 560 MVAR of shunt capacitor banks for
reactive power compensation at the 35-kV level;
(e) the equipment and the training needed to introduce hotline
maintenance techniques in TEK's transmission and distribution systems;
(f) the training overseas and on the job of specialized Turkish personnel
in the application of specific operational techniques;
(g) a study of possible effficiency improvements of older hydroelectric
power plants;1/and
(h) a feasibility study for a second combined-cycle power plant of about
1,000 MW in Thrace. (The first combined-cycle power plant is now
under construction at Hamitabat, Thrace).
The Project provides for 180 man-months of consulting services for studies and
for technical assistance in accounting (para. 5.24). In addition, the Project
includes the conversion of the 630-MW Anbarli steam power station near
Istanbul from fuel oil to dual fuel firing (fuel oil and natural gas-2/).
Project Cost Estimate
4.04     TEK's Operational Area has prepared a detailed project cost estimate
based on the most recent prices for the equipment and materials required for
the proposed Project. With 5Z physical contingencies, the project cost is
estimated before escalation at the equivalent of US$123.8 million (in January
1985 prices), of which US$107.0 million is foreign cost. Adding price
contingencies (about US$38.2 million) the total cost of the proposed Project
reaches the equivalent of US$162.0 million, of which US$140.0 million (86%) is
foreign cost. A suwmary of the project cost by operational areas is shown in
Table 4.1. The project cost matrix arranged by the nature of goods and
services involved and by operational areas appears in Annex 4.1. These costs
are net of custom duties. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that
TEK will be exempt from these taxes as has been the case in former power
projects financed by the Bank.
1/ This study could lead to changes of existing turbine runners by modern,
more efficient runners and possible uprating of generators.
2/ Natural gas from the USSR (through Bulgaria) will be piped to the Istanbul
area beginning with 150 MMCFD in 1987 to increase progressively to 600
MMCFD in 1993.



- 30 -
Table 4.1
Suwnmary of Project Cost
(In Equiv. US$ Million)   -(In Billions of TL)--
Foreign  Local   Total   Foreign  Local   Total
Tools, Eqpmt. & Spares
for Operational Areas
Power Generation:
-  Thermal                      10.97    1.42   12.39      4.94    0.64    5.58
-  Hydro                         4.25    0.82    5.07       1.91    0.37    2.28
Transmission                    15.25    2.04   17.29      6.86    0.92    7.78
Distribution                    53.60    7.78   61.38    24.12    3.50   27.62
Training
Specialized Training Overseas
and Training Equipment         2.53    1.54    4.07      1.14    0.69    1.83
On-the-Job Training              0.50    0.30    0.80      0.22    0.14    0.36
Technical Assistance
Provision of Eng'g. Services
for Project Implementation   0.20    0.30    0.50       0.09    0.14    0.23
Studies/TA in Accounting         1.80    0.20    2.00      0.80    0.09    0.89
Conversion of Anbarli to
Gas-Firing
Supply and Installation of
Necessary Equipment           12.90    1.60   14.50      5.80    0.72    6.52
Total Base-Line Cost
(in 01/85 Prices)          102.00   16.00  118.00    45.88    7.21   53.09
Physical Contingencies (5%)        5.00    0.80    5.80      2.25    0.36    2.61
Subtotal                     107.00   16.80  123.80    48.13    7.57   55.70
Price Contingencies               33.00    5.20   38.20    30.53    4.70   35.23
TOTAL PROJECT COST & REQUIRED /a
FINANCING                      140.00   22.00  162.00    78.66   12.27   90.93
/a Interest during Project Implementation is not included because TEK does
not capitalize interest for the type of investment involved in the
Project, given the short implementation time of each project component.



- 31 -
4.05     For all equipment, an amount equivalent to 20% of the related CIF
cost was added to cover necessary spare parts. Physical contingencies have
been taken as 5% of the base-line cost of the proposed Project. This is
sufficient given the nature of the Project and the detailed manner in which
the base-line costs for each-item in the project cost estimate were determined
(para. 4.09).  Price contingencies have been computed on the basis of 5% price
escalation in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% per annum thereafter for foreign
costs, and 35% in 1985, 302 in 1986, 25% in 1987, 20% in 1988, 15% in 1989,
and 10% in 1990 for local costs. Thus, price contingencies expressed in
equivalent US dollars are about 32% of the project base-line cost plus
physical contingencies.
Training
4.06     The training component of the Project consists of interrelated
activities: (a) training overseas of experienced engineers in specific
operational and maintenance techniques; (b) on-the-job training of experienced
technicians; and (c) training overseas and in Turkey of transmission and
distribution maintenance crews in hot-line work. The training overseas would
be done for groups of 5 to 10 engineers at manufacturers' premises or at
electric utilities. Typical subjects of training would be maintenance of:
hydro and steam turbine governors; boiler control equipment; voltage
regulators; transformer-generator and buss-bars differential protection; line
distance protection; circuit breakers control systems; and coordination of
protection between feeders. The overseas trainees would be required by
contract to remain in TEK for at least four years after their return to
Turkey. Moreover, training would be concentrated on experienced engineers
with strong attachment to TEK. It is hoped that these measures would reduce
the risk of losing the personnel trained under this program. On-the-job
training would be done by foreign technicians in the different power
facilities operated by TEX. These technicians would be obtained from
manufacturers, consulting engineering firms and electric utilities. Typical
subjects of training would be: turbine and generator overhauls; chemical
cleaning of boilers and superheaters; maintenance of condenser cleaning
systems; and chemical dosing system of boilers. Training on hot-line
maintenance would be done for selected maintenance crew and for training
personnel. The objective is to train ultimately all line maintenance crews in
this technique. Sufficient training and work equipment for the initial
program covering some 20 line maintenance crews has been included in the
project cost estimate.
4.07     Tne Project provides for an estimated 100 man-years of training
overseas plus the overseas and local training of crews in hot-line
maintenance. It also provides for an estimated 70 man-months of foreign
specialist services to carry out on-the-job training of TEK's middle-level
technicians and to introduce up-to-date operational and maintenance
techniques. During negotiations TEK agreed to: (a) submit to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1985 a detailed training program for experienced



- 32 -
operating and maintenance staff for implementation in 1986; (b) submit to the
Bank not later than June 30, 1986 its integrated staff training program for
the whole period of the project implementation; and (c) review with the Bank,
not later than September 30 of each year starting in 1986, the proposed
detailed annual training program for its operating and maintenance staff, and
for the next succeeding year.
Project Financing
4.08     The proposed Bank loan of US$140 million would finance the foreign
cost of the Project. The local cost, TL 12.27 billion (equivalent to US$22
million), would be met basically from TEK's internal cash generation and
government contributions to TEK. The proposed financing plan of the Project
is summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2
Project Financing Plan
Foreign    Local      Total      I
-TU-S$ Million Equivale-nt)-
Proposed IBRD Loan                 140.0          -      140.0     86
TEK and Government                     -       22.0       22.0     14
Total                         140.0       22.0     162.0    100
_____                        86.0      14.0      100.0
Status of Project Preparation
4.09     During 1984 TEK surveyed the maintenance plant required by its
operational area and the most urgent rehabilitation works needed throughout
the power system, including the distribution systems operated by the 18
regional distribution enterprises recently taken over by TEK (para. 3.02). On
the basis of this information, TEK prepared a 1986-89 four-year maintenance
plant and operational improvement investment program. The methodology used
for the formulation of the plan has been reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory.
4.10     The physical quantities of equipment and materials required were
derived from the information collected by TEK. A complete listing with
quantities and unit costs is available in the project files. The proposals
have been reviewed and discussed in detail by the Bank and found
satisfactory. In the distribution areas, actual quantities required compared
with expected needs might suffer somewhat larger variations than for other
operational areas because TEK has only recently undertaken a determined effort
to evaluate the ways and means of improving maintenance and operational



- 33 -
activities and urgent rehabilitation of urban and rural networks. Allowance
has been made in costing the program by including a special 202 physical
contingencies in the project cost estimate for the distribution operational
area.
4.11     Studies concerning the application of capacitors for reactive power
compensation at the 35-kV level have been prepared by the eight operational
regions of TEK and reviewed by the central operations office in Ankara. A
detailed plan for their application has been prepared by TEK including
capacitor ratings, location and associated switching equipment. The proposal
was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
4.12     TEK has examined the application of centralized telecontrol for
peak-shaving and street lighting control and determined that it is
economically attractive when control of more than 1,000 devices are involved.
This limits the application of centralized telecontrol to Turkey's major
cities. Eight telecontrol systems are included in the project, four for
Istanbul, and two each for Ankara and Izmir. Each telecontrol system
comprises the transmitting equipment, and a number of frequency-tuned
receiving elements (initially abouc 1,000 per system) and necessary
contactors. The performance technical specifications and the detail
application of the telecontrol systems will be determined from a study being
carried out by consultants for TEK in the framework of the TEK Transmission
III Project, which is financed with funds from Loan 2322-TU (para. 2.20).
Results of this study, which also explores other avenues for load management
are expected during the first half of 1986. The study will explore
complementary avenues for load management and energy conservation in TEK's
Power System, including:
(a) time-of-day tariffs for residential and commercial loads;
(b) interruptible contracts for major industrial loads; and
(c) efficiency improvement in consumer appliances and lighting devices.
The implcmentation of telecontrol and tariff measures would be done by each of
the commercially-oriented distribution enterprises. Interruptible contracts
for major industrial consumers would be handled by the Load Dispatch and Sales
Department in TEK's Operations.
4.13     TEK's Operational Departments have begun the preparation of detailed
technical specifications and tender documents for the equipment and materials
required by the Project. This work is geared to meet the procurement schedule
shown in Annex 4.2. Moreover, the Operational Departments are preparing, with
the assistance of the Training Department, the detailed program for training.
For a number of these project components, TEK needs the services of
consultants, some of whom have already been engaged following Bank
guidelines.  The tasks involved ar-.



- 34 -
(a) the feasibility study of the second combined cycle power station in
Thrace;
(b) the efficiency study of hydro plants;
(c) the conversion to gas-firing of Anbarli; and
(d) the preparation of tender documents.
Project Supervision and Monitoring
4.14     TEK's Operational Area will be responsible for the execution of the
Project. However, responsibility for certain components of the Project will
be delegated to the Thermal Power Plant Construction Department; these
components are: (a) the feasibility study for the second Thrace
combined-cycle power plant (Thrace II); and (b) the conversion to gas-firing
of the Anbarli steam power station.
4.15     Project implementation will be supervised by a Project Implementation
and Performance Monitoring Unit (PIPMU) which is to be formed within TEK's
Operational Area. This unit will report to the Assistant General Manager for
Operations. The same unit will monitor the operational performance of the
different components of TEK's power system according to agreed performance
goals (availability rate and forced outage rate for power generating units and
forced outage rate for transmission lines, substations and distribution system
components). Performance monitoring guidelines were agreed with TEK during
negotiations (Annex 4.3 indicates the main performance indices that would be
used in monitoring the operational performance of the power system).
Appropriate instructions and outage coding will be developed by TEK to produce
homogenous statistics suitable for performance monitoring. (The Thermal Power
Plant Operations Department presently employs a detailed outage coding system
based on a model used by German power utilities. This system permits the
identification of the outage rates for major components of each power
generating unit and the nature of the outage.) The Project includes data
processing equipment (mini-processors) and necessary software to permit
adequate handling of statistical data. In addition, mini-processors, with
appropriate software, will be supplied within the Project to each of the eight
operational regions of TEK, each major power station, and to each of the 18
distribution enterprises, for maintenance scheduling, maintenance crews
scheduling and spare parts stock control. An operations performance report
will be issued each year covering the precedine calendar year's operations of
TEK's power system and will be communicated to the Bank in the following
quarter. The analysis of performance will be communicated to the different
Operational Departments for follow-up and corrective measures if necessary.
4.16     During negotiations TEK agreed to establish, as a condition of
effectiveness, the Project Implementation and Performance Monitoring Unit.
TEK has already taken steps in its organization by appointing a senior



- 35 -
engineer to head the unit. In order to assist the PIPMU to prepare the tender
documents, to supervise project implementation, and to establish performance
monitoring methods, TEK will engage the service of engineering consultants
satisfactory to the Bank. This shall also be a condition of effectiveness.
TEK has indicated that it intends to use the services of ELTEM-TEK for this
purpose and for project progress reporting. ELTEM-TEK is an engineering
consultant organized by TEK and Turkey's two private power utilities --
Cukurova Elektric A.S. and Kepez -- to provide services to the power
subsector. ELTEM-TEK normally hires foreign consultants to support its own
technical personnel when necessary. These arrangements are satisfactory to
the Bank.
Project Implementation
4.17     Physical implementation of the proposed Project would occur over five
years (1986-1990), following the preparation of detailed technical
specifications and tender documents during 1985. Work on this matter is
already underway, and is expected to be completed by December 1985.
4.18     The nature of the Project, involving basically the supply of tools,
equipment for rehabilitation and spares, does not lend itself to contracting
for works or for erection of facilities. It is planned, therefore, that
installation of equipment will be done by force account by TEK's own operating
and maintenance personnel, supervised whenever necessary by supplier's
technicians. The studies will be done by consultants engaged by TEK, whose
qualifications are satisfactory to the Bank. In the particular case of the
efficiency improvement study of hydroelectric power plants, TEK intends to
hire individual consultants. All consultants, including w-an facturers, will
be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
4.19     The PIPMU (para. 4.14) will coordinate the procurement and delivery
of all equipment and materials required by the Project and mL.iitor their
application. In addition, the PIPMU will establish the project accounts
system and update it regularly for inclusion in quarterly prc ect progress
reports.
Procurement
4.20     All procurement of equipment and materials financed by the Bank will
be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelincs for Procurement under IBRD Loans.
Contracts financed under the proposed loan for the supply of equipment and
materials would be awarded, to the extent possible, through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Where replacement of power plant or substations
components are involved proprietary equipment would be required to assure
adequate fit with existing equipment or to meet dimensional clearance
restrictions. Fourteen contract packages will be procured through ICB
following the procurement schedule shown in Annex 4.2. Bidders will be asked
to bid for the package or for each group of homogenous equipment or materials
within the package. The total value of these contract packages is estimated



- 36 -
at US$134.41 million, of which about US015 million (11%) might require
proprietary procurement. Local manufacturers are expected to bid for about
20% of the equipment and the materials. For purposes of bid comparison, a
preference limited to 15% of the CIF price of imported goods, or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, will be extended to responsive local manufacturers.
Subject to prior approval of the Bank and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank, (a) contracts for goods of proprietary nature may be
procured through direct negotiations with the original suppliers of such
goods, and {b) contracts for miscellaneous items costing the equivalent of
US$50,000 or less, which contracts in the aggregate shall not exceed US$5.0
million, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the guidelines. All tender documents will be approved by the Bank
before issued.
~-.21    The provision of training services will be obtained after reception
of proposals from reputable utilities.
4.22     The above procurement allocation shows that out of a total loan of
US$140 million, procurement through ICB would account for US$118.4 million
(85%), through proprietary procurement US$15 million (11%), and through
negotiated contracts and other means (payments for airline tickets,
accommodations) US$6.6 million (5%). No Bank funds will finance force account
works or local transport. The proposed procurement plans are summarized in
Table 4.3.
Table 4.3
S-amiry of Proposed Procurement Plans
(In US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB      PP  /a  Other /b   Total Cost
12 Contract Packages (Annex 4.2)         108.2      17.1                  125.3
(94.2)    (15.0)                (109.2)
Ripple Control Equipment                   7.8 /c                           7.8
(7.3)                            (7.3)
Anbarli Conversion                        19.1                              19.1
(16.9)                           (16.9)
Training                                                       6.7           6.7
(4.2)        (4.2)
Technical Assistance                                           3.1          3.1
_____     _____      (2.4)        (2.4)
Total                                135.1      17.1       9.8        162.0
(118.4)    (15.0)    (6.6)       (140.0)
NOTE:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be "'nanced by the Bank.
/a  Proprietary procurement.
/b  Negotiated contracts and payment for airline tickets and accommodations.
/c  Two-stage ICB involving, in the first stage, technical proposals, and in
the second stage, price proposals based on the technique selected in the
first stage.



- 37 -
Disbursement and Special Account
4.23     Disbursement from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be made
for: (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures of direct imports, including
overseas shipping and insurance; (b) lOOZ of the ex-factory local expenditures
of goods produced in Turkey and procured through ICB; (c) 100% of the foreign
cost of training; (d) 85Z of total expenditures for services of consultants
domiciled within Turkey; and lOOZ of foreign expenditures for services of
other consultants. The closing date would be December 31, 1990, six months
after the estimated physical completion of the proposed Project, to allow for
payment of retention monies. Given the fact that a large number of relatively
small contracts will be issued from the procurement process, particularly for
instruments and tools, TEK has requested that a Special Account for
Bank-financed items be established in order to finance expenditures with a
minimum of administrative delay. TEK would open a Special Account for the
Project in the Central Bank into which the Bank would deposit funds. The
Special Account would be replenished in the same currency, and would have a
ceiling of US$8 million, which is equivalent to the estimated four-month
average of the total expenditures. During negotiations the procedure for
withdrawal of funds from the Special Account was explained. The following
aspects concerning this Special Account will be reflected in the disbursement
letter:
(a) the unit within TEK responsible for aggregation and submission of
withdrawal applications to the Bank; and
(b) intervals at which bank statements and applications for replenishment
would be submitted (in principle at quarterly intervals).
Central Bank statements showing the transactions in the Special Account will
be submitted to the Bank. Applications for replenishment will be accompanied
by appropriate documentation or Statements of Expenditures. Replenishment
would normally be made in the amount equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount of
any such deposit together with any amount remaining on the deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, does not exceed the equivalent
of the agreed ceiling.
4.24     The estimated disbursement from the proposed loan is shown in
Annex 4.5. This profile takes into consideration the special nature of the
proposed Project. Annex 4.6 gives a comparison with the EMENA Region standard
profile for power projects and with the Bank-wide profile for power projects.
Retroactive Financing and Advance Contracting
4.25     No retroactive financing or advance contracting is involved in the
proposed Project.



- 38 -
Environmental Aspects
4.26     Because of its particular nature -- improvement of power system
operations -- the proposed Project would have no adverse environmental
impact. On the contrary, better operational conditions in steam power
stations, because of improved maintenance, should reduce atmospheric pollution
in the surrounding areas.
Risks
4.27     Achievement of project objectives of improved efficiency and
reliability will. of course, depend on sensible management, the introduction
and actual use of improved operational and maintenance procedures, and
improvements in the technical skill of operating and maintenance personnel.
There is a risk that current power and energy shortages could cause TEK's
management to postpone plant maintenance activities even though the present
management of TEK is deeply committed to the Government's energy strategy
objective of improving the efficiency with which energy, and particularly
electric energy, is produced and consumed. Furthermore, because this will be
the first experience of the Operations Area of TEK with a Bank project, there
is some risk that delays could occur in project implementation. However, the
establishment of the Project Implementation and Performance Monitoring Unit
(para. 4.15) and assistance by ELTEM-TEK (para. 4.16) have been included to
assure rimely implementation, and appropriate power system performance
monitoring.



- 39 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. INTRODUCTION
5.01      The trend in the past year toward rapid improvement in TEK's
financial position marks   reversal in the deteriorating situation which was
presented two years ago... While TEK suffered a net operating loss in 1983,
due to insufficient tariff increases combined with very poor hydrological
conditions, the financial situation improved dramatically in 1984. Tariffs
increased significantly in real terms in 1984 (see para. 5.02), and internal
cash generation in 1984 was adequate to finance about 16% of investments in
the electric power subsector that year.2/ The changes in policy reflect the
priorities of the new Government (elected in late 1983) for reducing public
expenditures, pricing energy products closer to economic cost, and increasing
the self-financing level of the electric power subsector. The financial
analysis which follows assumes that this government commitment will be
sustained during project implementation. However, financial constraints will
continue to shape the level and timing of electric power investments. Foreign
debt management, working capital stability and overall financial planning are
other issues which will be dealt with through a Financial Action Plan in the
proposed Project.
B. RECENT FINANCIAL PERFORNANCE
Electricity Pricing
5.02      Wholesale Tariffs.  Over the three-year period, 1982-1984, wholesale
tariffs increased by about 13Z in real terms. As shown in Table 5.1 (details
in Annexes 5.1 and 5.2), wholesale tariffs were not adjusted sufficiently to
keep up with inflation in 1982 and 1983, and consequently lost 2% and 18% of
their real value in those two years, respectively. Then in 1984, tariffs
increased by 41% in real terms during the year, more than making up for the
ground lost in the two previous years. Although the wholesale price index
climbed by just over 50% in 1984, the Government was apparently determined to
increase tariffs even faster. In the first quarter of 1985, further
1/ TEK Transmission III (Loan 2322-TU, May 31, 1983).
2   N.B. All financial results for 1984 are based on estimated information
which was available in January 1985; changes are likely to occur after the
financial records are finalized and audited.



- 40 -
significant tariff increases occurred (para. 5.26); however, the actual real
increase resulting for 1985 will of course not be known until the end of the
year._
Table 5.1
Trends in Wholesale Electricity Tariffs
1982     1983      1984
Average Tariff (TL/kWh) - Jan. 01         5.70      6.99     8.05
- Dec. 31        6.99     8.05    17.15
Nominal Change During Year (Z)              23        15       113
Inflation (Z)                               25       41        51
Real Incr. (Decr.) in Tariffs
During Year (Z)                           (2)      (18)      41
5.03     Retail Tariffs.  During TEK's takeover of urban electricity
distribution from the municipalities in 1983, retail tariffs were standardized
for all regions of Turkey. Annex 5.3 shows changes in retail tariffs by
customer group effective over 1983-1985. During the eighteen months following
June 1983, retail tariffs increased by a range of 14% to 25% in real terms,
depending on the customer type. Under Loan 2322-TU, TEK and the Government
undertook to reflect fully in retail tariffs all increases in wholesale
tariffs, including fuel cost adjustments, starting in 1984. In 1984, when the
average wholesale tariff increased by TL 9.10/kWh, the single-terra retail
tariff for small industries increased by TL 11.85/kWh during the same period.
Other retail customer groups experienced larger tariff increases. Therefore,
it appears that increases in wholesale tariffs, as measured in absolute terms
(TL/kWh), were at least fully passed on through to the retail level in 1984.
5.04     Tariff Covenants.  Existing agreements assuring automatic fuel cost
adjustment of tariffs and passing increases in wholesale tariffs on to the
retail level have been confirmed under the present loan.
Working Capital
5.05     Given TEK's new authority to collect sales revenues directly from
retail customers (instead of the municipalities retaining these revenues), the
deterioration in TEK's working capital situation should normally have been
1/ The relationship between tariffs and the economic cost of electricitv
supply (LRMC) is discussed in para 2.19. Bulk tariffs were estimated at
65%-70% of LRMC in January 1985, increasing to about 85%-90% of LRMC by
April 1985.



- 41 -
reversed in 1983.   However, because of the significant real decrease in
tariffs in 1983, serious cash flow problems continued in 1983. Foregoing
payments to its fuel suppliers in 1983 (including other public enterprises
such as TPAO, for fuel oil and TKI, for lignite), TEK used its available funds
for the payment of capital expenditures, rather than operating expenses, in
order to avoid delays in the implementation of its investment program. As a
result of this, combined with past accumulated arrears, TEK's accounts payable
had increased to TL 283 billion by the end of 1983, more than that year's
gross operating revenues.
5.06     To put a halt to rising indebtedness among public enterprises, the
Government took action in 1984 to consolidate these debts. TL 230 billion in
TEK's net overdue accounts payable were consolidated and converted into
equity. The Government made it clear, however, that it did not expect to
repeat the role of a financial clearing house for debts between public
enterprises. Furthermore, TEK was charged penalties of almost TL 50 billion
in 1983 for late payments to its fuel suppliers. Since mid-1984, TEK has
generally been paying its fuel suppliers on schedule.
Table 5.2
TEK - Working Capital Position (As of December 31, 1982-1984)
1982       1983        1984
----(Actual)--    (Estimated)
Working Capital (Deficit) (in TL billion)         -39         -106       +87
Current Ratio                                      .8           .7        1.5
Days Receivables                                  272          267       186
5.07     Although TEK is reducing its accounts receivable, they are still very
high, amounting to 267 and 186 days of s:Ates at the end of 1983 and 1984,
respectively. The estimated composition of TEK's accounts receivable by
customer group as of 12/31/84 was as follows; 35% f,_r municipalities, 28%
from private industry and households, 22% from government agencies, 8% from
public agencies, and the remaining 7% from other customers. The largest
category, municipalities, is composed of arrears due TEK for bulk purchases
prior to the transfer of distribution from the municipalities to TEK. The law
which transferred distribution assets and their operation from the
municipalities to TEK made provision for outstanding arrears to be offset
against net asset value. TEK's end-84 accounts receivable would be equivalent
instead to about 117 days of sales, if adjusted to exclude municipal arrears.
The decision by the Ministry of Finance on how the municipalities' accounts



- 42 -
would be repaid or consolidated is still pending, but is scheduled to be
finalized by 1986 following the determination of the value of the distribution
assets transferred to TEK.
5.08     Working Capital Covernants.  It was agreed under Loan 2322-TU that TEK
would maintain a current ratio (defined as current assets divided by current
liabilities) of at least 0.7 at the end of 1983, increasing to 1.0 at the end
of 1984 and future years, and this was confirmed under the present project.
As indicated on Table 5.2, TEK has complied with this covenant (based on
unaudited results). However, a satisfactory current ratio can still cover up
other weaknesses in TEK's working capital situation; delays in collecting
payments from some customers will also need to be reduced. As part of a
Financial Action Plan, agreement was reached on a target for improving
collection of customer payments. Measured in terms of days of average sales
revenue, accounts receivable from all customers except municipalities should
be reduced to 90 days by December 31, 1988, meeting that target in stages as
follows: 1986 - 110 days; 1987 - 100 days.
Debt Service
5.09     TEK has access to a limited amount of medium-term TL borrowing from
the State Investment Bank (DYB), and relies on foreign credits to finance most
of the foreign cost of its investments. Due to TEK's past cash shortages, TEK
and the Treasury have tacitly agreed that TEK will defer from time to time
reimbursement to the Government for installments on TEK a foreign debts paid
by the Central Bank, without formally rescheduling them. In the last three
years (1982-1984), it is estimated that TEK actually paid only about one half
of foreign debt installments due out of its internal funds, with the remainder
being postponed to the following year. The amount of foreign debt service
payments deferred by TEK (including principal and interest) is estimated at
US$161 million, US$232 million and US$74 million in 1982, 1983 and 1984,
respectively. In 1984, the Government converted about US$115 million (TL 40
billion equivalent) of these arrears to equity. The accumulation of arrears to
the Central Bank is the equivalent of giving an additional transfer to TEK
from the Government, acting as an interest-free loan. In the future, it would
be preferable either for TEK to receive adequate government equity to stay up
to date on its debt service payments, or to make more internally generated
funds available for TEK's debt service.
5.10     The Bank has discussed with TEK a method to maintain more accurate
records of principal and interest payments due to foreign creditors and the
date and amount of payments actually made by TEK, in foreign currency terms
and converted to TL at the correct exchange rate. As part of the Financial
Action Plan, TEK will update on a semi-annual basis records of foreign debt
service payments paid and outstanding for the current and following two years
for periodic review by the Bank.



- 43 -
Recent Trends in Sector Financing and Int2rnal Cash Generation
5.11       Among public enterprises, TEK has received in recent years the
largest allocation from the national budget in the form of direct government
equity. In 1983 and 1984, TEK received 23Z and 35% respectively of total
government investments in public enterprises. With the objective of increasing
sector self-financing, the Bank and the Government have agreed on targets for
the share of public investments in electric power to be covered by internally
generated funds. According to the agreed formula, TEK's internal cash
generation is adjusted for TEK and DSI electric power-related debt service,
and then compared to the subsector investment program, including TEK and DSI
power investments.l-
5.12     Changes in working capital are included in the definition of internal
cash generation (i.e., a decrease (increase) in working capital is regarded as
a source (use) of funds). However, the covenant was not intended to consider
failure to pay for annual operating costs as a "source of funds" for capital
expenditures. As explained above (parss. 5.05-5.07), in the past four years,
there have been abnormal variations in TEK's short-term accounts, distorting
the picture of the degree of self-financing achieved. Therefore, in reviewing
TEK's past levels of internal cash generation, it is more meaningful to
exclude changes in working capital during this period. (Such unusual
fluctuations in working capital are no longer expected after 1985.)
5.13     Table 5.3 compares the covenanted level of internal cash generation
(column a) for the 1981-1984 period, with actual performance, both excluding
changes in working capital (column b) and including these changes (column c).
The level of sector internal cash generation for 1981-83 has been overstated
since it was not possible to adjust correctly for DSI's debt service for power
projects. However, estimated DSI debt service has been included for 1984 and
afterwards. Borrowing for DSI projects is contracted by the Government; since
many of DSI's projects are multi-purpose, it has been difficult to isolate the
power-related debt service. This matter will be analyzed in the course of the
appraisal for the next Bank-financed hydropower project with DSI, which is
planned for FY86.
5.14     While estimated internal cash generation financed between 10% and 20%
of power investments in 1981 and 1982, it did not quite reach covenanted
levels. Then in 1983, when tariffs dropped in real terms, TEK internal cash
generation was actually negative. Preliminary results for 1984 indicate a
rebound, with internal cash generation at about 16% of power investment,
compared to the covenanted level of 21%. In view of the large real increase
in tariffs achieved in 1984, however, the recent performance under the
covenant can be regarded as acceptable.
1/ This covenant was originally included in the Karakaya Hydropower Project
(Loan 1844-TU, 1980), and later ammended in May, 1983. (The treatment of
taxes in the internal cash generation formula is discussed in Annex 5.8,
para. 16.)



- 44 -
Table 5.3
TEK Internal Cash Generation (1981-1985)
(As Z of Power Subsector Investment)
Year               Covenant              Actual
/a            /b           /c
1981                 20            13            20
1982                 22            19            21
1983                  12            0            21
1984 (estimated)     21            16           (31)
1985                 32             -             -
1986 onwards          35            -
/a Agreed under Loan 1844-TU (May 1980); subsequently targets for 1983 and
1984 were lowered during negotiations for Loan 2322-TU (May 1983).
lb Excluding changes in working capital. More meaningful than Ic for
1981-84 (as explained in para. 5.12).
/c Including changes in working capital. Less meaningful than /b for 1981-84
(as explained in para. 5.12).
Public Participation Fund and Keban Revenue-Sharing Certificates
5.15     As part of the Government's innovative resource mobilization policy,
the recently created Public Participation Fund (PPF) issued in January, 1985,
TL 40 billion (US$90 million equivalent) of revenue-sharing certificates
associated with the Keban hydropower plant.l/ The certificates, underwritten
by the Isbank, were sold within two days. TEK retains full ownership of the
Keban power station but must transfer to the PPF a base rate of TL 11.3/kWh
(60% of the bulk tariff) for electricity generated by the Keban station, with
this rate increasing as bulk tariffs increase. The PPF will pay out as
interest only 22% of the money transferred to it from TEK, the remainder to be
used for priority projects, especially in the energy sector. Holders of Keban
certificates earn no guaranteed return, because the interest payments which
they will receive are a function of TEK's sales tariffs and of the actual
1/ The PPF, established by Law 2983 (1984), can issue revenue-sharing
certificates associated with existing public infrastructure facilities,
and such certificates have also been issued for the Bosphorus Bridge. The
first issue of Keban certificates included TL 20 billion of Series A with
a three-year maturity and TL 20 billion of Series B with a five-year
maturity. The Keban Hydropover Plant of 1330 MW was constructed in two
stages during 1964-1983; the total cost in January 1985 prices is
estimated at US$1.1 billion, or TL495 billion. Using a 50-year life, the
annual depreciation would be about TL 9.5 billion.



- 45 -
generation of Keban and, therefore, these investors could become a new
constituency in favor of electricity tariff increases.
5.16     Most of the resources available to the PPF in conjunction with the
Keban certificates come directly from TEK; out of TL 360 billion (in 1985
prices) projected to flow through the PPF in 1985-1989, only the initial TL 40
billion invested by private individuals represent new resources being
generated from outside the sector. In 1985 the PPF is directing these funds
at priority hydroelectric projects under construction (e.g., Karakaya,
Kapulkaya, Menzelet, Catalan, Genzende, Adiguzel) to assure a steady flow of
Turkish Lira to contractors and, where possible, to advance the completion
dates. Eventually some investments carried out by TEK may be selected for
financing through grants from the PPF. Additional revenue-sharing
certificates may be issued in the future, tied either to the Keban Dam or to
other hydropower plants.
5.17     It is logical that cash generated by TEK should be used to finance
DSI's investments in hydroelectric power, since DSI itself is not a
revenue-earning entity, and because, under the present policy, TEK does not
pay anything to the Government when completed hydroelectric facilities are
transferred to TEK from DSI. TEK's payments to the PPF could now be regarded
as a form of reimbursement for the Keban facility. On the basis of the
Januarv 1985 tariffs, TEK would have to pay TL 64 billion annually to the
PPF. At this rate, TEK would have repaid the Government for the total cost of
the Keban power station at the end of eight years.
C.  FINANCIAL PLANNING AND ACCOUNTING PRACTICES
Financial Planning
5.18     Short-term financial planning is carried out by TEK in conjunction
with the app;-oved annual investment program, normally finalized in
November/December preceding the given year. At this point, TEK receives an
indication frow. the Ministry of Finance of the likely amounts of three
sources: (a) government equity contribution from the budget, (b) foreign
credits, and (c) local credits from the State Investment Bank (DYB). There is
no implicit government approval of any tariff increases needed to permit
financing the remainder of approved investment program. In its yearly
financing plan, TEK therefore estimates its internal cash generation based
only on tariff increases already authorized by the Government, showing any
residual as a "gap".
5.19     Partly due to its lack of control over tariff setting, TEK management
does not rely on medium- or long-term financial planning to determine the
possible size of the investment program. Without giving full consideration to
whether financing will be available, the formulation of the investment program
is instead driven by technical criteria. Although a rolling five-year
financial forecast is updated annually by TEK for submission to the World



- 46 -
Bank, it is a very time-consuming exercise with inadequate flexibility to test
the consequences of major changes. TEK prepares the forecast manually, making
it nearly impossible to change parameters once the exercise is under way.
Furthermore, contingencies for price and exchange rate fluctuations over the
forecast period are not inc-orporated. The necessity for closer coordination
between financial and technical planning is now being recognized by TEKC and
the Government given that resource limits have directly affected the
implementation of the investment program. This issue will continue to be a
focus of Bank sector and supervision missions.
Audits
5.20     As with other public enterprises, TEK's financial statements follow
the Uniform Chart of Accounts, and are audited by the High Control Board
connected with the Prime Ministry. TEK is required by Law 233 to submit its
balance sheets and final accounts to the Prime Ministry for auditing no later
than the third month following the year they pertain to. TEK is then meant to
submit its annual audited accounts to the Bank no later than five months after
the close of the year. However, there are shortcomings with both the scope
and the timing of the present audit reports. The auditors rarely comment on
the reliability of the presentation of the accounts, or on significant events
which occurred during the year. The audit reports concerning 1981 and 1982
were received more than a year after the close of the fiscal year. Similarly,
the audit report for 1983 had not yet been received as of April 1985.
5.21     Most likely it will not be possible to meet the five month target for
submission of the audit report, until the 1987 report. TEK's consultants,
SEI/Mage (para. 5.23), are giving priority to helping TEK improve the
timeliness and accuracy of the financial statements. Furthermore, an upgrading
of TEK's computer center, presently being studied, should improve TEK's
ability to prepare and correct the annual financial reports. During
negotiations agreement was reached on a gradual schedule of improvement for
submitting audit reports, with the 1985 and 1986 audit reports being expected
within 10 and 8 months, respectively, after the end of the given fiscal year,
and within 5 months for 1987 and afterwards.
Asset Revaluation
5.22     The practice of revaluation of fixed assets in service was
discontinued by TEK in 1979. Then, starting in January 1983, according to Law
2791, TEK and all other public enterprises were once again required to revalue
their assets. However, the mission does not consider that the present
revaluation regulation will result in a meaningful asset value.l/ At such
1/ The price index stipulated in the law does not appear to bear any
relationship to historical trends, as this index would imply that
inflation in Turkey has been 100% each year from 1972 to 1983, and then
37% in 1984, when the change in the wholesale price index was actually
about 50%. In any year when inflation is less than 10%, no revaluation of
assets need occur, according to this law.



- 47 -
time when TEK's fixed assets have been revalued adequately reflecting their
replacement value, the rate of return on assets will become a meaningful
indicator of adequacy of tariffs. However, given higher priorities for
improvement of TEK's accounting, including the accurate recording of the
historical book value of asse'ts, asset revaluation will not be dealt with
under the proposed Project.
Technical Assistance to Improve Accounting
5.23     A three-year technical assistance effort (1985-1987) to improve TEK's
financial reporting and customer accounting, is being implemented under TEK
Transmission III (Loan 2322-TU) by TEK with Southern Electric International
(SEI) and Mage, their Turkish partner. The objectives are to: (a) eliminate
double accounting and information flow bottlenecks between the accounting and
related departments; (b) improve customer accounting systems for two pilot
distribution enterprises -- Ege (Izmir) and Central Anatolia (Ankara); (c)
improve the timeliness, accuracy and format of financial reports needed for
management and external users (including IBRD); and (d) design the first stage
of a management information system for TEK. This TA effort has made good
progress to date and enjoys the close collaboration of the related TEK
managers and staff. While the scope of the present contract is ambitious, it
has still been limited to take account of constraints on TEK's absorptive
capacity for change.
5.24      Follow-up will be needed to build on and extend the improvements
made, but further consulting services in this area should be engaged only
after the present TA contract has been implemented. The Power System
Operations Assistance Project includes funds for an estimated 100 man-months
of technical assistance which will cover the following: (a) development and
implementation of improved cost accounting for maintenance, operations and
materials; (b) introduction of a management information system for TEK; and
(c) improvement in financial planning.
D. FUTURE FINANCIAL PROSPECTS
Financing of Medium-Term Power Investment Program: 1985-1989
5.25     In order to meet expected national electricity demand after 1990, a
considerable growth in investments in electricity generation, transmission and
distribution would be required in the next five years. At the same time, TEK
and DSI are expected to face substantial resource constraints in this period.
The Bank's review of the public sector investment program and the potential
for resource mobilization, which is presently being conducted in the context
of SAL V, has indicated that it will be necessary to limit real growth in
overall public spending to lower levels than planned by the Government in the
medium-term. However, since TEK is a revenue-earning entity, the power



- 48 -
subsector will have increasing amounts of internally generated funds available
and will not need to depend heavily on Government equity contributions.
Furthermore, legal changes have increased the potential for private investment
in power generating capacity (para. 5.36).
5.26     1985:  As already mentioned, medium-term planning for che power
subsector needs to be strengthened;   only for 1985 is there some certainty
regarding the power subsector investment program and related financing plan.
TEK's 1985 investment program as approved in December 1984 amounts to TL 400
billion, and another TL 200 billion has been allocated for DSI's hydropower
investments in 1985. DSI's power investments are to be financed in 1985 by
government budget and borrowing (66%) and by transfers from TEK through the
PPF (33%). Financing for TEK was originally authorized as follows: 25% from
government equity contribution; 30% from foreign borrowing; 5% in local
borrowing from the State Investment Bank (DYB); and the remaining 40% from
internal cash generation. Then in April 1985, the government contribution to
TEK was reduced by half to TL 50 billion. To fill the resulting gap and to
meet the remaining resource needs, the Government has already begun to
implement a series of tariff increast.  Bulk tariffs went up in nominal terms
by 47% in the first quarter of 1985,- a period during which the wholesale
price index increased 15% to 20%. It may be difficult for the Government to
maintain the present level of tariffs in real terms throughout 1985, in the
light of the sizeable tariff increases already implemented. One possible
outcome is that no further tariff increases would occur other than fuel cost
adjustments; in this case, the approved program would need to be slightly cut
(by about 5%) and the resulting self-financing level would be about 36%. This
is assumed to be a "base ca.e".  (Available internal cash generation could be
lower if inflation surpasses the 35% forecast, or higher if significant
further tariff increases are implemented during the rest of 1985.)
5.27     To determine what level of overall power subsector investment could
realistically be financed through the public sector after 1985, the investment
scenarios outlined in Chapter II were examined.2/
5.28     Scenario "A":  The desired investment program as proposed by TEK and
DSI reflects a very large increase in investments in 1986, almost 60% higher
than the 1985 level. This level of investment could be financed if;
(i) tariffs in effect April 1, 1985 are sustained in real terms throughout
1985 and then increased a further 15% in 1986, and (ii) government equity
doubles in real terms, compared with the approved 1985 level. Because this
1/ Bulk tariffs were increased by 10%, 11% and 20% effective January 1, March
1 and April 1, respectively. These are the nominal increases excluding
the VAT and 'TRT charge collected by TEK, which do not affect TEK's net
income. (See Annexes 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3.)
2/ Alternative scenarios for the TEK and DSI power investment programs are
discussed in paras. 2.24-2.28 and Annex 2.2.



- 49 -
combination of actions does not appear to be feasible, it is concluded that
the program proposed by TEK and DSI for 1986, could not be financed. Overall
the TEK/DSI program proposed for 1985-89 is about 15-20% higher than the
likely level of resource availability for the public sector.
5.29      Scenario "B":  This represents the upper bound of national investment
requirements needed to meet demand in the 1990s as estimated by the Bank. In
order for TEK and DSI investments to reach this level, resources available to
the public sector would need to be greater than can reasonably be envisaged.
Government equity and foreign borrowing for power would need to increase by
10% and 20% p.a., respectively, over 1985-1989, and average tariff revenue in
1985 and 1986 would need to be 15% higher in real terms than the preceding
years. The resulting internal cash generation levels would range from 501 to
60%.
5.30      Scenario "C":  This scenario, considered by the Bank a lower bound of
required investments, will still require significant tariff increases in 1985
and 1986. The average revenue per kWh sold would need to increase in real
terms by 20% and 15% in 1985 and 1986 respectively over the previous year's
level in order to meet the sector's resource requirements. After 1986, as a
result of these increases, and the expected increase in electricity sales made
possible by completion of major plants, there would be more than adequate
resources available within the sector to finance the minimum level described
as Scenario "C".
5.31      Scenario "D":  The Bank's financial projections thus indicate that
resources could be available to the public sector (i.e., TEK and DSI) to
finance an intermediate level of investment, which is between the higher
levels (Scenarios "A" and "B") and lower bound (Scenario "C") discussed
above. Scenario "D", which was used as a base for the financial forecasts,
indicates the level of investment which the public sector is likely to be able
to support. The composition of the public power investment program and the
timing of major projects which would be consistent with Scenario "D" will need
to be examined.through sector missions and project supervision. The relation
of Scenario "D" to the other investment scenarios is shown graphically in
Table 5.4. It is based on the assumptions listed below. (Related agreements
are given in para. 5.35.)
(a) Electricity tariffs. Following the major increases implemented in
the first quarter of 1985 (para. 5.26), it is assumed conservatively
that no further increases might occur in 1985 beyond the agreed fuel
cost adjustment of tariffs. The real increase in the average bulk
tariff for 1985 over the 1984 level would then be 10%, assuming 35%
inflation in 1985. Then, during 1986-1988, real increases of 5% p.a.
are assumed in order to bring tariffs to at least reflect LRMC by
1989.



- 50 -
(b) TEK's internally generated funds would stay within the sector,
financing TEK's investment program directly, as well as being
transferred in part to DSI via the PPF.
(c) TEK's fcreign borrowings and government contributions to TEK in the
form oi new equity would increase by at most 4Z p.a. in real terms
over the approved 1985 level.
(d) DSI's power investment program could be funded by foreign borrowing
and government contributions, together increasing at most 6% p.a. in
real terms over the approved 1985 level, and by TEK's transfers to
the PPF as already committed for the first Keban revenue-sharing
certificates (para. 5.15).
Under these assumptions, the level of self-financing (internal cash
generation) for the power subsector could increase to 60-65Z by the end of the
decade.-Y
1/ The calculation of estimated internal cash generation is shown in Annex
5.6 and related assumptions are discussed in Annex 5.8, para. 16.



- 51 -
Table 5.4
Scenarios for Investment in Electric Power
(thousands of billion TL in mid-1984 prices)
(TL 350/US$)
1.3 -                                                                 B
1.2 -A
1 .1
D
1
0.9 
0.7 
0.6
0.5 
0.4-
0.3 
0.1 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1985            1986            1987            1988            1989
+    Scenario "A"   -  TEK and DSI projection of required expenditures
(TEK/DSI estimate).
|= g Scenario "B"   -  Overall national level of investment required to meet
growth in electricity demand in Turkey in the 1990s
(Bank estimate).
O    Scenario "C"   -  Minimum level of investment required to complete
ongoing and high priority projects (Bank estimate).
A    Scenario 'D"   -  Level of investment by TEK and DSI which could be
financed, taking into account expected tariff
increases and growth in foreign borrowing and
government equity (Bank estimate).



- 52 -
Future Financial Position of TEK
5.32     Financial statements for TEK for 1981-1989, showing the implications
of Scenario "D", appear in Annexes 5.4 to 5.6, and the resulting financial
ratios for TEK and the subsector are shown in Annex 5.7. The assumptions used
in the base forecasts are listed in Annex 5.8.
5.33     Sumnary:  1985-1989.  The growth in TE1's access to government equity
and foreign borrowing is expected to be constrained, and the base financial
forecasts show TEK relying increasingly on self-financing towards the end of
the 1980s. The Bank was informed by MENR during the appraisal mission that
this was the Government's intention. The expected completion of major
generating facilities (e.g., Elbistan, Karakaya) will enable TEK to increase
its level of electricity sales at a faster rate (by up to 202 p.a.) at the end
of the forecast period, and to start to close the gap of unmet energy demand.
Debt service coverage could increase from a low level of 0.8 times in 1983 to
4.0 times at the end of the 1980s, assuming that sales tariffs at that time
would reflect fully LRMC. TEh's liquidity situation is expected to improve,
as a result of the technical assistance TEK is currently receiving in customer
billing and monitoring of receivables. It is estimated that nearly half of
TEK's investments in 1985-89 would be financed by internally-generated funds
available to TEK after tax (43Z), supplemented by foreign borrowings (44%) and
local credits (3%). Government equity would still be relied on to finance the
remaining 10% of TEK's program, but would be more than offset by TEK's
expected income tax payments.
5.34     Sensitivity analysis shows that the base financial forecast would be
materially affected by periods with higher than expected inflation, during
which tariffs could easily slip downwards in real terms, while the cost of
completing ongoing investment projects would increase and the Turkish Lira
cost of foreign debt service obligations would also rise more than expected.
Agreed Revenue Covenant and Supporting Covenants
5.35     If the progress made since January 1984 toward economic pricing of
electricity (para. 2.19) is sustained, levels of sector self-financing could
surpass 60%, especially when other sources (national budget, borrowing) are
constrained. However, much uncertainty remains about future inflation rates
in Turkey, as well as the possible levels of investment in electric power.
The proposed Project therefore includes the present internal cash generation
covenant (para. 5.11), supported by complementary covenants to strengthen
investment and financial planning and to improve TEK's liquidity situation.
The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
to repeat the present internal cash generation covenant in the
present loan, maintaining the same covenanted levels for subsector
self-financing as minimum targets (322 in 1985, 352 thereafter).



- 53 -
Indication of how the agreed level of internal cash generation would
be met for the following year would be provided to the Bank by
October 31 of each year. The definition of internal cash generation
would be clarified as follows: TEK's payments to the PPF (para.
5.15), to the extent that these amounts are maintained within the
subsector to finance electric power investments, would be treated as
subsector internal cash generation.
for TEK and the Government to review with the Bank by October 31 of
each year the proposed annual investment program for the power
subsector for the next year and the planned power subsector
investments for the next five years and the related financing plans,
(para. 2.30). These annual reviews would address present concerns
that medium-term investment planning does not take financial
constraints into account.
-    for TEK to implement a Financial Action Plan achieving the following
objectives:  improvement of collection of customer bills (para.
5.08); improvement of foreign debt service recording and management
(para. 5.10); and engagement of consultants to follow-up and extend
improvements in accounting and MIS presently underway (para. 5.24).
Potential for Private Investment in Power
5.36     A large gap remains between the total national requirements for
investments in electric power (Scenario "B"), and the level of investment
which can reasonably be financed and carried out by TEK and DSI
(Scenario "D"). This gap is illustrated in Table 5.4. For the five-year
period, l985=1989, it is estimated that total national requirements will
amount to US$14 billion equivalent (TL 6,500 billion in early 1985 prices), of
which TEK and DSI could feasibly carry out only about 80Z. The remaining gap,
about US$2.8 billion (TL 1,250 billion), would need to be financed through
other sources which could include the following: (a) CEAS and KEPEZ; (b)
foreign concessions; (c) local investors; and (d) issue of more
revenue-sharing certificates associated with Keban or other hydro facilities.
5.37     The likely level of private investment in power in Turkey is still
uncertain, other than for CEAS and KEPEZ, who plan to undertake investments of
about US$0.5 billion in the next five years. The Government has begun
discussions with local parties which could serve as "entrusted" companies
operating as integrated utilities in designated regions, and with foreign
companies which could invest in thermal power plants (e.g., nuclear, imported
coal) on a concession basis without requiring TEK or the Government to take on
additional foreign debt (para. 2.16). An expanded role for private
investments in power could be advantageous, depending on the cost and the
sales tariff agreed to for purchases from private suppliers. However, it is
not likely that these prospects will result in the necessary scale and timing
of investments in the next five years, and thus the shortage of electricity
supply in Turkey is expected to continue into the 1990's, until financing
constraints can be resolved.



- 54 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Relationship to Policy Objectives
6.01     The project forms an essential part of the Bank strategy for
assistance to the Turkish power subsector as outlined in Chapter II since it
would:
(a) focus attention upon improved maintenance;
(b) increase the efficiency with which existing facilities are utilized;
(c) increase the availability of electricity supply to a severely
electricity constrained energy system more rapidly than any other
technical option available; and
(d) assist TEK, through training and technical advice, to prepare a
comprehensive maintenance program and introduce TEK to new and
advanced maintenance techniques.
Relationship of the Project to the Least-Cost Progr
6.02     The primary economic justification for the Project is that it forms
part of the economic least cost means of meeting a sustained increase in
demand for electricity in the Turkish interconnected system. The Project is
part of the least cost solution since it would, in effect, bring on stream
additional capacity and/or energy at costs considerably below the investment
costs for new plant to meet a similar increment in demand or improv~ement in
system reliability. Furthermore, the improvements in fuel efficiency would
result in savings in the order of US$13 million per annum (1985 prices).
Increased efficiency in the operation of the interconnected electricity system
would have the following impact:
(a) fuel efficiency improvement of at least one percentage point in six
thermal (five lignite and one fuel oil) power plants which would
result in 400,000 tons of lignite and 30,000 tons of fuel oil
equivalent saved per year;
(b) an increase in effective generation capacity through the improvement
of present power plant capacity to rated capacity and through
investment in power factor correction which would result in
improvements, over the short term, in system reliability until the
balance of supply and demand reaches equilibrium; deferred investment
over the long term; and system fuel savings;
(c) an increase in plant availability of about 600 hours (weighted
average) which would result over the short term in a reduction in
unserved energy and, over the longer term, in both deferral of
investment and system fuel savings;



- 55 -
(d) a decrease in forced outage rates in the transumission and
distribution system which would result in greater system reliability
and a decrease in unserved energy;
(e)  improved maintenance practices and procedures which would reduce
outages in the system; and
(f)  measurement equipment which would assist TEK in the development of a
loss reduction program for the distribution networks.
Rate of Return on the Investment Program
6.03     Since the Project forms an integral part of TEK/DSI's 1985-1990
expansion program the economic rate of return on the whole timeslice of the
electric power investment program (covering the implementation of the proposed
Project) was calculated (Annex 6.1).
6.04     The measurable costs comprise the:  (a) capital cost of the adjusted
expansion program for 1985-1990; (b) operating costs; and (c) fuel cost of
incremental thermal generation excluding fuel savings. No fuel ascalation was
assumed since increases in the price of fuels are covered by the fuel
adjustment clause incorporated in the tariff structure. Detailed assumptions
as well as results of the analysis are presented in Annex 6.1.
6.05     Measurable benefits were limited to the incremental revenue
attributable to the program (para. 6.04), computed on the basis of; (a) TEK's
projected sales to industrial customers supplied directly at the high-voltage
level and to low-voltage consumers supplied through TEK's distribution
enterprises; and (b) projected tariffs at the high- and low-voltage levels,
and any net fuel savings resulting from investment in improved efficiency in
the thermal plants. Tariff adjustments were projected in line with the
financial projections given in Chapter V as follows: the January 1 through
April 1, 1985 increases would result in an average high-voltage saies revenue
for 1985 of TL 26.8/kWh, and for low-voltage sales, of TL 34.90/kWh, assuming
that all increases in bulk tariffs are passed on to retail tariffs as agreed
under TEK Tranmission III (para. 5.04). Further increases would take place in
1986, 1987, 1988 and 1989 (6Z, 5%, 2% and 2X in real terms, respectively),
reflecting the Government commitment to allow sufficient tariff increases to
raise the level of self-financing in the power subsector. Tariffs would
remain constant in real terms thereafter. Since the tariffs used in the
calculation were estimated as a proxy for consumers' willingness to pay, all
taxes were included. Given the large unmet demand (para. 2.02) the
willingness to pay for electricity is likely to be higher than the current
average tariff; but it cannot be quantified.
6.06     Under the above assumptions, the return on the program is estimated
at 11.2%, marginally below the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
However, it understates the real economic return since it excludes the



- 56 -
consumer's surplus. In addition, given the difficulties of quantifying
precisely all the benefits generated by investments in improved efficiency of
system operations, these benefits were not fully taken into account in the
analysis, thus understating the real return on the investment program.
Justification of Individual Components
6.07     The operational statistics contained in paras. 3.19 to 3.27 supply
ample evidence that in all aspects of its operation TEK is performing at
efficiencies considerably below those normally expected. The Project
addresses this issue by financing capital expenditures of equipment to improve
efficiencies and increase availability as well as training of manpower. It
is, however, difficult to estimate with any great precision the exact outcome
of the proposed Project since factors other than capital equipment (e.g., fucl
supply problems) would affect the subsector's overall operational performance
in the future. For illustrative purposes an estimation of the benefits to be
derived from the three discrete components of the proposed Project is
presented below. It should be noted, however, that in the absence of detailed
optimization and simulation models it was not possible to estimate accurately
the system effects of the proposed Project.
6.08     Generation Component.  The impact of the proposed investments would
be to improve the reliability of the system as the improvement in operation
and maintenance practices would increase available generating capacity and
therefore reduce the risk of failure of the system to meet the daily peak
demand. In addition, savings would be realized in fuel expenditures and, in
turn, production costs. The economic impact of increasing reliability would,
in effect, be to allow the deferment of new plant that would otherwise be
required to maintain system reliability and meet peak demand. A rate of
return on the proposed investment in thermal generation was calculated,
whereby benefit streams for increased availability were measured as the
additional energy available to the system, priced at the projected tariffs.
Fuel savings through improved efficiency were measured at the estimated
economic costs of the fuels in question: CIF, Istanbul for petroleum products
and long-run marginal cost for lignite. This approach, to some extent,
underestimates the real benefits of the Project since in an energy-constrained
economy any reduction in availability is, in essence an outage which cannot be
met in the short term through any other alternative technical means. Over
time, however, the system effects become more pervasive as new lower cost
plants modify the dispatch of the existing thermal plants. The return on the
proposed investment was estimated at 106%, reflecting the fact that only
limited investments are necessary to produce substantial improvements in the
operation of thermal plants. Details of the calculation are presented in
Annex 6.1. Furthermore, a final consultant's report (Fichtner, Germany) on
switching of Anbarli fuel oil power plant to natural gas concluded that the
payback for such investment would be eight months.
6.09     Tr.nsmission.  It is estimated that investment in power factor
improvement (para. 3.26) would result in the release of about 300 MW of



- 57 -
generation capacity. If this capacity were available for an average of about
6,000 hours per year, it would increase gross sales revenues by an annual
amount of TL 42 billion (1985 prices), compared to a total investment cost of
TL 8.7 billion (1985 prices). While the benefits would need to be adjusted to
net revenues, it nevertheless indicates the likely high return on the
investment. Additional benefits, more difficult to quantify, would directly
result from the proposed investment: improved maintenance would lead to a
reduction in unplanned outages although the actual impact upon energy
availability would depend critically upon improvements in the response time
for redispatching energy through alternative system configurations. Only in
cases where the transmission lines are directly associated with power plants
would the downtime for maintenance be equal to the outage time.
6.10     Distribution.  The proposed investment in distribution constitutes
the first step towards the formulation of a comprehensive loss-reduction
program as the installation of meter testing equipment would assist TEK in
identifying losses in the networks of the distribution enterprises.
Furthermore by improving the operation and maintenance of the distribution
system the proposed Project would improve system reliability and reduce forced
outages. The supply and installation of telecontrol equipment for load
management in Turkey's major cities (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir) is expected to
release a minimum of 50 MW of peak generation capacity, thus defering the
installation of a gas turbine with a comparable size. Assuming a construction
cost of US$250/kW, the total investment necessary to meet this peak demand
would amount to TL 5.6 billion, compared to a cost for the installation of
telecontrol equipment of TL 2.7 billion, which illustrates the attractiveness
of such investment.



- 58 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations, the Government agreed to extend the customs
duties exemption to the proposed Project (para. 4.04).
7.02     During negotiations, Government and TEK agreed to:
(a) review with the Bank, not later than October 31 of each year, (i)
the proposed annual investment program for the power subsector for
the next succeeding year and the related financing plan, and (ii)
the required investments and related financing plans for the next
succeeding five years (para. 2.30);
(b) maintain a fuel adjustment clause in TEK's electricity supply
contracts and enforce a provision that its charges will be
increased automatically to take account of increases in its fuel
costs (para. 5.04);
(c) reflect all increases affecting bulk (high voltage) tariffs,
including fuel cost adjustments, in retail (low voltage) tariffs
(para. 5.04); and
(d)  take necessary actions to ensure that subsector internal cash
generation is at least equal to the following shares of annual
capital expenditures in electric power made by TEK and DSI; 1985 -
32%, 1986 and afterwards - 35%. TEK's payments to the PPF, to the
extent that these amounts are maintained within the subsector to
finance electric power investments, would be treated as subsector
internal cash generation (para. 5.35).
7.03     During negotiations, TEK agreed to:
(a) submit to the Bank not later than December 31, 1985 a detailed
training program for experienced operating and maintenance staff
for 1986 (para. 4.07);
(b) submit to the Bank not later than June 30, 1986 its integrated
staff training program, for the whole period of the project
implementation (para. 4.07);
(c) review with the Bank, not later than September 30 of each year, the
proposed detailed annual training program for its operating and
maintenance staff, for the next succeeding year (para. 4.07);
(d) submit to the Bank, in the first quarter of each year, an annual
operations performance report covering the preceding calendar
year's operations of TEK's power system (para. 4.15);



- 59 -
(e) maintain a current ratio (defined as current assets divided by
current liabilities) of at least 1.0 (para. 5.08);
(f) implement a financial action plan including:
(i)    steps to improve collection of customer bills (para. 5.08);
(ii)    improvement of foreign debt service recording and management
(para. 5.10); and
(iii)    engagement of consultants to follow-up and extend
implementation of improvements in accounting and MIS (para.
5.24).
(g)  submit its annual audited financial statements to the Bank not
later than ten months after the close of 1985, eight months after
the close of 1986, and five months after the close of each
following year starting with 1987 (para. 5.21).
7.04     As conditions of loan effectiveness, TEK shall:
(a)  establish a Project Implementation and Performance Monitoring Unit
(PIPMu) reporting to the Assistant General Manager for Operations
(para. 4.16); and
(b)  engage an engineering consultant to assist the PIPMU in project
management during project implementation and in setting up an
operational performance monitoring system (para. 4.16).
7.05     With the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$140 million, for a term of 17 years at the standard variable
interest rate, including a four-year grace period, to the Borrower, TEK,
with the guarantee of the Republic of Turkey.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1.1
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Turkey - Energy Balances
(Million tons of oil equivalent, MTOE)
1978          1980           1982          1983
MTOE     Z   MTOE      x     TOE      X   MTOE      X
Consumption
Petroleum                  18.0   51.6   16.2  46.3   17.1  45.2   17.2  44.8
Lignite                    4.0   11.4    4.6   13.1    5.2   13.8    6.0   15.6
Hard coal                  2.8    8.0    2.7    7.7    3.0    7.9    3.2    8.3
Asphaltite                  0.1    0.3    0.2    0.6    0.3    0.8    0.3    0.8
Hydroelectric              2.3    6.6    2.8    8.0    3.5    9.3    2.8    7.3
Imported electricity       0.2    0.6    0.3    0.9    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.5
Wood                       4.6   13.2    4.8   13.7    5.0   13.2    5.1   13.3
Wastes                      2.9    8.3    3.4    9.7    3.6    9.5    3.6    9.4
Total Consumption          34.9  100.0   35.0  100.0   38.0  100.0  38.4  100.0
Domestic Production
Petroleum                  2.9    8.3    2.4    6.9    2.5    6.6    2.3    5.9
Lignite                    4.6   13.2    4.3   12 3    5.3   14.0    6.1   15.9
Hard coal                  2.6    7.4    2.2    6.3    2.5    6.6    2.2    5.7
Asphaltite                 0.1    0.3    0.2    0.5    0.4    1.1    0.3    0.8
Hydroelectric              2.3    6.6    2.8    8.0    3.5    9.3    2.8    7.3
Wood                       2.3    6.6    2.7    7.7    2.3    6.1    3.5    6.5
Wastes                     2.9    8.3    3.4    9.7    3.6    9.5    3.6    9.4
Subtotal                  T77   367    TF5    3Tf    nWT I           TWX   3r3
Illicit deforestation      2.3    6.6    2.1    6.0    2.7    7.1    2.6    6.8
Stock changes, net        (0.7)  (2.0)   0.1    0.3   (0.2)  (0.5   (0.2)  (0.5)
Total domestic supply      19.3  55.3  20.2   57.7   22.6   59.8   22.2   57.8
Imports
Petroleum                  15.2  43.5   14.3  40.9   16.0   42.3   16.2  42.2
Hard coal                   0.3    0.9    0.5    1.4    0.6    1.6    0.9    2.3
Electricity                0.2    0.6    0.3    0.9    0.2    0.5    0.2    0.5
Total imports              15.7  45.0   15.1  43.2   16.8  44.4   17.3  45.0
Petroleum exports          (0.1)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.9)  (1.6)  (4.2)  (1.1)  (2.8)
Total supply               34.9  100.0  35.0  100.0  37.8  100.0  38.4  100.0
Source: Energy Sector Strategy Paper, IBRD Report No. 4973-T1J,
September 1984.
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.
April 11, 1985



- 61 -                       ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 ot 4
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Demand Forecasts
1.       TEK's latest long-term generation plan (1987-2005) is based upon the
demand forecast shown in Table 2.1. Overall growth in energy demand is
estimated at 11.2% per annum with peak demand increasing at 9.0% per annum.
This represents a considerable sustained annual increase in demand,
particularly as the base from which the demand is extrapolated (1987) appears
to be high.
Table 1
TEK's Demand Forecast (1987-2005)
(Selected Years)
Net Demand                    Required Generation
Peak (MW)     Energy (GWh)        Capacity (MW)      Energy (GWh)
1987         8,760           49,100              11,966             59,411
1990        12,180           68,300              16,199             82,960
1995        21,350          119,800             29,429             143,760
2000        28,900          162,200              38,437            192,640
2005        40,500          227,400              53,865            270,606
Source: TEK
2.       TEK's medium and long term demand forecasts are based upon the past
relationships (1965-1983) between growth of GDP, industry and electricity
consumption which may no longer be valid, and on over-optimistic assumptions
about the future growth of the economy. Furthermore the forecast does not
take into account the possibilities for modifying electricity consumption
patterns through demand management, conservation and appropriate pricing
policies.
3.       In connection with Bank sector work as well as the subsector study -
"Turkey - Electricity Planning and Investment", Report No. 5031-TU, dated
June 22, 1984 a set of demand projections were prepared for discussion with
TEK. These were based upon the scenarios as presented below.



2ANNEX 2.1
- 62-             ~Page 2 of 4
4.       Scenario One assumes that the Government does not vigorously pursue a
load management program nor increase prices in real terms. Projections of
sales were made for five sectors: industry (large bulk supply consumers),
manufacturing, agriculture, public buildings and households. Industry,
manufacturing and agriculture projections were based upon elasticity
coefficients of 1.634, 1.663, and 1.0, respectively, from data for the 1965 to
1982 period. Estimated growth in the Government buildings and households
sectors was, in the absence of adequate data on electricity usage in these
sectors, assumed to be direct'y related to GDP growth. The economic growth
projections used for this case are given in Table 2 and are below those used
in TEK's forecast. Sales data for 1982 were adjusted by 12Z aa estimated by
TEK to represent effective demand for that year. Reliability standards
(reserve margin of 36%) and system losses were maintained as in TEK's original
demand forecast.
Table 2
Economic Growth Projections
(% per annum)
GDP       Industry       Manufacturing       Agriculture
1985-1990          5.4           6.6               8.0                 3.5
1991-2000          5.0           6.0               7.0                 3.0
2001-2005          4.5           5.5               6.5                 3.0
Source: Bank estimates
5.       The purpose of this forecast was to develop a scenario which was
based upon the methodology emnployed by TEK but adjusted to take into account
new projections of economic growth and available data on current sales and
effective demand. While this scenario results in a very high demand forecast
it was used to compare with scenarios 2 and 3 in order to illustrate the
considerable potential for conservation and demand management as well as
demonstrate the urgent need for an improved and more realistic demand forecast.
Table 3
Scenario 1
Net Demand                 Required Generation
(MW)            (GWh)            (MW)           (GWh)
1987         9,624           46,389           12,088          57,666
1990        12,340           59,480           16,056          71,376
1995        17,363           91,157           23,440         109,388
2000        26,758          140,480           36,123         168,576
2005        34,715          194,406           46,865         233,287



ANNEX 2.1
Page 3 of 4
6.       Scenario Two was developed to illustrate the possible impact a demand
management program could have upon the level of demand. A direct load
management program (excluding tariff adjustments) would have a greater impact
upon peak demand than energy demand. In the nbsence of detailed price
elasticities for Turkey a conservative estimate of -0.15 was used and this was
based upon approximate price elasticities calculated in other countries.1/
The introduction of tariff increases was assumed to take place over a ten year
period such that tariffs increased to their respective long run marginal
costs. For three specific industries, iron and steel, copper and aluminum
energy savings equivalent to about 600 GWh or approximately 100 MW of capacity
were calculaLed. Required generation, excluding losses, was estimated on the
same basis as the base case. The results indicate a long term growth in peak
demand of about 7.5Z per annum.
Table 4
Scenario 2
Net Demand             Required Generationa-
(mw)         (GWh)         (MW)          (GWh)
1987              9,624      46,389         12,088         57,666
1990             12,120       58,421        15,756         65,342
2000             15,787       88,847        20,523         97,731
2000             24,158      137,686        30,197        151,456
2005             31,243      180,867        39,054        195,894
a/ Assumes system losses reduce from 20% to 10% and a reserve margin
equivalent to 25Z.
7.       Scenario 3 assumed a more dramatic improvement in energy efficiency
including a progressive decline in GDP-energy elasticity until unity is
reached by 1995. This results in an overall growth from 1990 onwards of 6.1%
per annum in peak demand and represents capacity additions of about 1000 MW
per annum.
1/ See for example, D. Julius "Energy Pricing in Developing Countries: A
Review of the Literature" World Bank Energy Department Paper No. 1,
October 1, 1981.



ANNEX 2.1
- 64 -                          Page 4 of 4
Table 5
Scenario 3
Net Demand                 Required Generation
tW)       (GWh)                (MW)          CGWh)
1987          9,624     46,389               12,088       57,666
1990         12,120     58,421               15,756       65,342
1995         15,190     85,064               18,988       90,421
2000         19,386    110,488               24,232      121,537
2005         24,742    143,232               30,927      155,129
8.       The estimates in Scenario 1 are close to those estimated by TEK up to
1990 but thereafter show a marked difference, primarily as a result of the
lower economic growth projections assumed by the Bank. This results in a
required capacity by 2000 of about 2,300 MW less than in the TEK projection
and 7,000 MW less in 2005. However, under Scenario 2, a further 3,000 MW by
2000 and almost 1,000 MW by 2005 could be saved. Scenario 3 shows an even
greater savings in required capacity by 2005, some 8,100 MW less than
Scenario 2 and almost 23,000 MW less than TEK's projections.
9.       While the above forecasts are very preliminary, they do illustrate
the considerable potential for investment savings in generating plant. For
example, Scenario 1 implies present worth (1983) capital investment savings of
about $5.75 billion compared with the TEK forecast. Furthermore, a lower
growth rate in demand would allow TEK to delay implementation of some of the
more costly investment options in the plan such as the high capital cost
nuclear and the more marginal lignite-fired plants.
10.      The above projections underline the critical importance of preparing
a realistic demand forecast. As discussed in para. 2.21 TEK has hired
consultants to assist in the analysis of load data, preparation of detailed
short-, medium- and long-term demand forecast and identify the costs and
impact on demand of various load management (including pricing) actions.
11.      The analysis of demand discussed here was, however, not used as a
basis for the TEK sales forecast in the financial projections. In the period
1985-1989 electricity supply is expected to be less than demand, and sales
will therefore be a residual of the supply forecast, i.e., gross available
generation less losses (see Annex 2.2, Attachment 1).
April 12, 1985



- 65 -                         ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 10
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The Electric Power Investment Program 1985-1989
Introduction
1.       TEK and DSI prepare annual investment budgers for submission to SPO
and Government. There is no bureaucratic requireme.. for TEK and DSI to
prepare a medium term (e.g. 3-5 year) projection of expenditures and, in the
case of TEK a projection of revenues from sales. However, as part of the Bank
appraisal and supervision process TEK and DSI were requested to provide
projections of expenditures, sales and revenues for the period 1985-1989. The
energy chapter of the Government approved 5th Five Year Plan was used as a
guide to Government priorities and Dolicies in the energy sector.
The 1985 Approved Program
2.       Table 1 below summarizes the main features of TEK's proposed
investment program submitted to SPO in July, 1984 for approval and the final
Government approved investment program for 1985, including the DSI hydro
program.
Table 1
(a) The TEK 1985 Investment Programa/
(millions of 11, June 1984 prices)
TEK proposal sub-       SPO-approved
mitted to SPO             program
Generation                                            %                    2
Ongoing - to be completed in 1985             3,300                3,000
Ongoing - to be completed after 1985        281,756              185,300
New projects                                 39,270               12,750
Total generation                        324,326 (53%)        201,050 (50%)
Transmission
Transmission                                100,378               63,250
Subtransmission                              22,000               18,000
Total transmission                      122,378 (20%)         81,250 (21%)
a:' Exchange rate: US$1 = TL 350.



- 66 -                         ANNEX 2.2
-~ 66 -Page 2 of 10
Table 1
(Con't)
(a) The TEK 1985 Investment Program
(millions of TL. June 1984 prices)
TEK proposal sub-    SPO-approved
mitted to SPO           program
Distribution
Urban distribution b_                        77,792               50,000
Village electrification                      28,548               28,500
Total distribution                      106,340 (17x)         78,500 (20Z)
Operations, Machinery & Equipment
Operations                                   34,274               21,500
Machinery and Equipment                      18,607               11,000
Vehicles                                      3 839                1,800
Total                                    56,-720 (92)         34,300 (8Z)
Miscellaneous
Studies                                       2,360                  900
New TEK building                              5,563                4,000
Total miscellaneous                       7,923 (1%)           4,900 (1%)
Total Investment                            617,687 (100%)       400,000 (100%)
(b) TEK and DSI 1985 Investment Program
(millions of TL at June 1984 prices)
TL                         %
Generating plant                            401,050                      65%
Main transmission                            63,250                       11%
Subtransmission                              18,000                       3Z
Urban distribution                           502000                       9%
Village distribution                         28,500                       5%
Other investment                             39,200                        7%
Total                                   600,000                     100%
b/ Includes Illerbank.
Source: TEK, MENR



- 67-                          ANNEX 2.2
Page 3Eof 10
3.       The above table calls for the following comments:
(a) The approved allocations for 1984 show a continuation of che trend
for generating plant to take the major share of the program although
the allocation shows some improvement compared with previous years.
(b) The allocation to urban distribution shows considerable improvement
(9% compared with 5% in 1983) although still substantially below the
investment requirements for renovating and expanding the urban
distribution systems; and below the current absorptive capacity level
of the distribution enterprises, estimated by TEK at 75-80 billion
Turkish Lira.
(c) The overall TEK investment program for 1985 shows a decline in real
terms over the 1984 program. TEK had initially proposed a program
for 1985 of about TL 618 billion although this has been reduced to
TL 400 billion. There are some encouraging signs that TEK has, in
adjusting the program, paid attention to priority investments:
(i)  minimal adjustments have been made to the allocations for the high
priority ongoing generation projects;
(ii) the allocations for new projects (other than Thrace
combined-cycle) have been substantially reduced or eliminated;
(iii)  potential uneconomic new projects such as Elbistan B and Saray
have been excluded from the 1985 program and this should give time
for TEK to re-evaluate these projects (in conjunction with the
Bank's policy dialogue on the lignite sector);
(iv) despite a trimaing of investment for urban distribution to a level
at which TEK agrees is undesirable, the allocation represents a
real increase over the 1984 program;
(v)  the allocation for the nuclear program was cut from TL 45 billion
to a negligible TL 10 million.
(vi) allocation to operations and equipment (and hence presumably
maintenance) shows an increase in real terms over 1984.
4.       In economic and financial terms, the continuing high levels of
investment in village electrification compared with other parts of the
subsector investment program is unjustified. The investment requirements for
the village electrification program show no reduction and are currently at a
level of about 60% of the urban distribution program. For example, investment
in the three major distribution enterprises (Bogazici, Ege, and Icanadolu) at
about TL 20 billion is less than the village electrification program (TL 28.5
billion) despite the fact that those three enterprises account for 68% of
total low-voltage consumption (1983 data). However, the village
electrification program is considered an important social and political



ANNEX 2.2
- 68 -                        Page 4 of 10
objective of the Government, especially since the present program is focused
primarily in the eastern provinces of the country which are considered
impoverished and less developed than Western Turkey.
Scenario "A": 1985-1989 TER/DSI Projected Investment Program
5.       Both TEK and DSI provided to the Bank an estimate of annual projected
public sector expenditures between 1985 and 1989. These were given to the
Bank as informal working documents and not as approved levels of investment
for electric power. The principal assumption made by the agencies was that
implementation capacity and not financial availability would be the main
constraint to investment scheduling. The financing constraint is discussed in
para 18.  Table 4 summarizes the projected expenditures and greater detail is
provided in the Project File. In addition balances of energy and capacity
consistent with the projected investment program were prepared by TEK and are
shown in Attachment 1.
Table 2
Scenario "A"
TEKIDSI Projectet Investment 1985-1989
(TL billions, June 1984) al
1985   1986    1987   1988    1989
Thermal generation                       201    368      200    159      135
Hydro generation                         200    343      454    514     666
Transmission                              63     88       69     69       89
Sub-transmission                          18     24       33     45      60
Urban electrification                     50     65       85    115      150
Rural electrification                     29     40       50     60      70
Miscellaneous b/                          39     45       45     25       25
Total                               600    973     936    987   1,195
of which TEK                      400    630      482    473      529
a! Figures rounded up, exchange rate US$1 = TL 350.
b/ Includes operations, buildings, machinery and equipment and studies.
6.       Investment costs are based upon estimated costs to complete all
ongoing projects; the introduction of a limited number of new thermal power
plants, a rapid build up of new hydro plants, and the necessary investments in
transmissior, distribution, maintenance and general plant to complement the
growth in new generation projects.
7.       The Bank reviewed with the agencies and MENR the proposed expenditure
program and gave the following comments:



- 69 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 5 of 10
(a) The thermal generation program is basically sound although the Bank
recommended that the Beysehir power plant be dropped from the 1985
investment program and revaluated, new geothermal projects be dropped
from the program and Government should focus increasingly on
providing a policy framework for encouraging private sector
development in the geothermal sector; the nuclear program be deferred
from the 1985-1989 program until clarification is received on the
"concession financing" model proposed, and a second combined cycle
plant be introduced to utilize imported natural gas by the early
1990s.
(b) The hydro generation program requires considerable revision;
(i) it includes 26 ongoing projects which represents a heasry burden
with respect to implementation schedules. However of these 26
ongoing projects 8-1 are either under 75 MW in size and/or have
expenditures to date as a proportion of total cost of less than 5%
and would, therefore, be of lower priority than the larger and
more developed projects.
(ii) DSI has included start up of 84 new hydro projects in the
1986-1989 period which is totally unrealistic both from a
financing viewpoint and from the implementation capacity of DSI to
mount such a program. In essence, the list appears to be a
"shopping list" of potential projects, neither ranked technically
nor economically and including projects ranging in size from 8 MW
to 1,200 MW. A severe pruning of this project list is, therefore,
required.
Ciii) Transmission and subtransmission line items appear to be
consistent with the timing of the well advanced thermal and hydro
generation projects although annual reviews and increased
awareness of flexibility in planning the timing of transmission
investments will be required, especially if delays are encountered
in the generation program.
(iv) Urban distribution is shown as increasing by about 30% per annum
in real terms and this is a reasonable assumption given the growth
in demand at the retail level as well as the poor condition of
many existing urban networks. No breakdown by region was given,
although it is recommended that the high density large urban
areas, especially Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara, be given priority
since together they account for almost 70Z of total low voltage
consumption. TEX has wisely hired consultants (EdF, France) to
develop masterplans for these three urban areas which, once
completed, would provide greater insight to required levels of
investment for distribution.
1/ Lamas 4, Mercan, Tohma, Derbent, Yenice, Ozluce, Kralkizi, Dicle (1100 MW
but no expenditures yet incurred).



- 70 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 6 of 10
(v)  Allocations for rural electrification are projected to rise by
about TL 10 billion per annum on the basis of the targets for
village electrification set by Government and the likelihood that
new villages primarily located in the more remote provinces will
cost more to connect as the program develops. This is a
reasonable assumption at this point in time although TEK's
consultants (EdF, France) have been requested to review the
technical standards of the rural electrification program to assess
whether investment costs could be reduced.
(vi)  The miscellaneous category includes general plant, vehicles,
buildings, other machinery, studies and investment costs
associated with the dispatch center but did not include the
investment costs associated with the proposed Bank financed
Operations Assistance Project.
8.       The methodology adopted by SPO to estimate projected expenditures may
result in a tendency to underestimate investment requirements. Both total
project cost and past expenditures are adjusted to a constant price base and
the difference represented as the balance of project cost. It is not clear
whether real cost escalation as a result of delays is included in reestimating
total costs nor whether costs are adjusted to reflect changes in projec.t
design. The Bank plans to investigate this issue further during the planned
Public Investment Review scheduled for end FY85.
Scenario "B": Overall Power Subsector Investment Requirements - 1985-1989
9.       Although TEK and MENR are currently working on the development of a
long term least cost investment plan (para 2.09) for the power subsector no
output from the WASP computer runs was available to the appraisal mission.
However on the basis of sector work undertaken in Turkey (see Turkey - Long
Term Investment Options for Power, Report nos. 5431-TU; and Turkey -
Electricity Planning and Investment, Report nos. 5031-TU) the appraisal
mission has constructed a likely level of investment in electric power to meet
projected demand.
10.      While the projections of required investment are consistent with
present demand estimates they are assumed not to be constrained by resource
availability nor by the implementation capacity of the public sector. :ndeed
given the public sector's past record on implementation of key electric power
investments it is clear that such an investment program could not be mounted
solely in the public sector. It was assumed that ongoing projects currently
in the investment program would be supplemented by the start up of new
projects in order that demand between 1990 and 1995 would be met. Capacity
requirements throughout the 1990-1995 period were taken from the base case of
the draft subsector report on Long Term Options for Power (op cit) and are
estimated as follows:



- 71 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 7 of 10
Table 3
Capacity Additions (MW)
1991                 995
1992               1,095
1993               1,204
1994               1,191
1995               1,300
11.      The table below gives the approximate levels of investment required
during the 1985-1989 period to meet demand up to 1995.
Table 4
Scenario "B"
Overall Investment Levels
(TL_billion)aI
1985         1986          1987          1988        1989
Thermal         201          250           250           300         325
Hydro          200           250           350           400         425
Other           199          350           475           500         550
Total        600           850          1075          1200        1300
a! TL 350 = US$1.
Scenario "C"; The Adjusted Public Investment Program
12.      In view of the co..nments given in paras 6 and 7 the Bank carried out
its own review of the different components of the program. This was based
upon the assumption that, at a minimum, all ongoing high priority projects
would be completed expeditiously and it included a review of current physical
progress of ongoing hydro and thermal power plants, evaluation of size and
type of new generation expansion candidates likely to be added to the program;
and a review of the transmission, distribution and village electrification
components of the program. The adjusted program, presented in summary form in
table 3 and in detail in the Project File, did not take into account
macro-economic considerations of resource availability although a second
scenario was constructed to reflect the serious resource mobilization issue
facing the Goverment and this is presented in para 18 below. The adjusted
program may be viewed as the minimum program required to ensure the completion



- 72 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 8 of 10
of high priority ongoing generation projects. Balances of capacity and energy
were also prepared reflecting the adjustments made to the investment program
and these are available in the Project file.
13.      The principal adjustments to TEK's projections of expenditures are
summarized below:
(a) Thermal Generation
High priority should be given to the following plants: Tuncbilek,
Elbistan, Cayirham, Kangal, Ohaneli, Soma, Yenikoy, Seyitomer, Yatagan 3,
Yeni Catalagzi, Aliaga and Denizli 1, all of which are well advanced
projects supported by foreign credits. Expenditures reflect TEK's
estimates with the exception of Elbistan which was updated on the basis of
recent cost data r.vailable within the Bank. Although physical progress to
date is limited completion of the Trakya 1 combined cycle plant was
accorded high priority since contracts have been awarded on a full project
management basis. The Kemerkoy plant scheduled for completion in 1987 is
probably over ambitious and a rescheduling of that plant to 1989 has been
assumed. Given the large scale imports of natural gas and TEK's decision
to prepare a fesibility study for a second combined cycle plant located in
Thrace it was assumed that construction of Trakya 2 (1000 MW) would start
in 1987. Other than the first Denizli unit no new geothermal plants were
included in the public investment program since it was assumed that no
further investment would take place until the severe operating problems of
the pilot project in Aydin were resolved and any future investments in
geothermal would be undertaken by the private sector. The 1 x 340 MW
Beysehir unit was assumed to be deferred, pending a reevaluation of its
economic merit since preliminary analysis by the Bank indicates that,
because of the high cost of lignite supplied to the power plant, the
project is uneconomic. The first nuclear plant as well as any imported
coal fired power plants were deferred from the adjusted program pending
clarification on the "concession financing" model proposed by Government.
However since it is likely that TEK will embark upon construction of an
additional 2-3 large thermal power plants a line item for unidentified
thermal plants was included in the adjusted program.
(b) Hydro Generation
High priority large hydro projects were maintained in the program as
scheduled by DSI with some adjustments to the Urfa Tunnel and Ataturk,
both of which appear to have a rapid investment build up in the 1986-1989
period. The smaller hydro projects listed in para 7 (b) (i) were eitner
dropped or deferred. The unrealistic number of new projects included in
the DSI proposal was reduced to six including Kayraktepe, Batman, Boyabat,
Ilisu, Cizre and Karkamis. In the absence of a detailed hydro inventory
and technico-economic ranking of the available hydro sites these six were
selected on the basis of size, known characteristics, likely financing and
stage of preparation. Furthermore, given the large DSI portfolio of



- 73 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 9 of 10
ongoing projects it was assumed that no more than two projects per annum
would enter the investment program.
(c) Transmission and Distribution
The transmission and distribution program was reviewed with respect
to timing of lines and substations with power plants. Urban distribution
was maintained as per the TEK schedule and no real growth in investment in
the village electrification program was assumed. Finally the
miscellaneous category was, in line with Government policy to ensure
adequate resources for maintenance and rehabilitation, increased to
include allocations for the proposed Bank financed Operations Assistance
Project.
14.      The adjusted investment program is shown in Table 5 below:
Table 5
Scenario "C"
The Adjusted 1985-1989 Program
(TL billions, June 4984) a7
1985!'  1986    1987       1988     1989
Thermal Generation                    201       245      205      247       207
Hydro Generation                      200       199      200      157       164
Transmission                           63        88       69       69        89
Subtransmission                        18        24       33       45        60
Urban Electrification                  50        65       85      115       150
Rural Electrification                  29        30       30       30        30
Miscellaneous                          39        47       52       39        41
Total                          600        698     674       702      741
of which TEK                  400        499     474       545      577
a/ Approved program.
15.      The adjusted program still shows a large increase in investment
requirements in 1986 compared with the approved allocation for 1985. This
stems from the large number of thermal and hydro generation projects which are
relatively well advanced and need to be completed as expeditiously as possible
in order to bring electric power on stream as rapidly as possible.
Macro-Economic Considerations
16.      A final level of investment was reviewed by the Bank and was based
not upon investment requirements but rather upon macro-economic considerations
of resource availability and foreign debt constraints.   SPO currently



- 74 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 10 of 10
estimates that public investment for all sectors will rise within the range of
4-6% per annum, although preliminary analysis by the Bank indicates that a
lower bound of 3% per annum is more likely. Since priority in the 5th Five
Year Plan has been accorded to the energy sector it is likely that growth in
energy investment would exceed the overall total growth rate. However, if
investment in the power subsector was constrained to say 4.0% per annum this
would reduce total public investment in electric power for the period to
TL 3,249 billion (June 1984 prices).
17.      If such a program was realized it is clear that even priority
investments in generating plant, transmission and distribution would have to
be deferred. The construction of almost all new projects would have to be
delayed until 1988 and 1989. Completion of ongoing projects would need to be
reviewed on the basis of existing contractual and financial obligations as
well as physical progress, and investments in associated transmission, and
urban and rural electrification would need to be slowed down. Such a program
would have a deliterous impact upon the growth in sales by the late 1980's
since it would delay the commissioning of key power plants. However given the
advanced status of several high priority thermal and hydro power plants as
well as the availability of full foreign financing it is assumed that
Government would provide adequate counterpart local financing to ensure
scheduled completion of those high priority projects.
18.      In undertaking its financial projections the Bank did not take into
account the program described in para. 16 above since: (a) it is not yet
clear whether revenue earning parastatals would be subject to the same
constraints on growth in public fixed investment as non-revenue earning
parastatals. (b) The result of the cost saving investments outlined in the
proposed Power System Operations Assistance Project as well as the policy to
reach long run marginal cost within a 5 year period should result in available
resources, generated by the sector to more than finance the above level of
investment, provided that funds generated by the sector are retained within
the sector. (c) The above level of investment would result in even further
delays to key high priority ongoing projects in the program. (d) Most of the
ongoing projects ir the program are bound by either financing obligations
and/or contractual obligations and would be difficult to relinquish.
April 11, 1985



-  75 -
ANNEX 2.2
attacienait 1
Page 1 of 5
Filenames  Balance                                                          TURKEY
16-Hay-SB
Iblunc  of Energy and Capacitios
IUnitI  Fuel   I   ImstalledlAvmrae FulllC lsiouingl-    -----               Plant Capacities (in HU) -                I
PLANT CAPACITIES (IN) 1/1  IDi   Type    Capacity (tillDutput (6Ubil    Date          I    195      1986      1907     199       169       1990 I
___ -  ------------------                  I--                                                       -  -      -  -      -  - _ I  _______ _ I _ ___ ___ . _I  __ I
HIND                   :          I              I             I              I                                                          I
la)  Existing Plants      I       I                          I              I
TEK                                                                               .  3,948    3,141    3,849    3,940    3,846    3,048 I
:    I          I              :             :              I                                                          :
(bh  Neu Plants                                                                    i
IEK
Karacaaren              I    Hydra               31:          1421    9/87        1       -        31       31        31        31       31
Kokluce                I11   Hydro               451          290      11/07      i       -        45       45        45        45       45
Kokluce                 2    Hydra               451          2901      6197              -        45       45        45        45       45
Karakay                 I :  Hydra              300          2000 1     6/96  b           -       300      300       300       300      300 1
Karakaya             121  Hydroa                300:         1950       1/97      1       -       300      300       300       300      300 1
KarCaya              1  3:   Hydro              300          1850 1    91/7            ,            -      300       300       300      300 1
Karataya                4    Hydro              3001          564       1/96      I       -         -        -       300       300      300 1
Karaskav                5:  Hydra               300 I         5641      6/98 8            -         -        -       300       300      300:
Karakaya             1 61   Hydro  1            3001          1271    9/98                -         -        -       300       300      300 1
Kapulukaya             I      Hydra  1           1             go:      1/97              -         -       19        10        19      I1
Kapuluhkya              2    Hydro  1            IS            80       3/97              -         -       19        19        lE      IE
Kapulukaya           :3   Hydra1                 le:          8so       6/97              -         -       10        to        19       la
Altinkya               1   Hydra               175           599       9/87              -         -      175       175       175      175S
Altinkaya               2    Hydra              175           589       1/R       i       -         -        -       175       175      1751
Altinkaya               31  Hydra               175           289       3/88                - -              -       175       175      175
Altinkaya               4    Hydra  1           175           299       6/99              -         -        -       175       175      175
Adiquzel                I    Hydro               31           140       9/87              -         -       31        31        31       311
Adiguzol                2:   Hydra               31           140       1/98              -         -        -        31        31       31:
leneelet               IHHydrao                  30            841      3167      1       -         -       30        30        30       3o1
Henielet                2    Hydro               30            841      6/97              -         -       30        30        30       301
Henzelet                3    Hydro               30:           941      9/97              -         -       30        30        30       30
Henzlelt               4      Hydro              30            94:    1/89        :       -        -         -        30       30        30:
6ezende                1      Hydra              50           176       6/99              -         -        -        SO        o0       50:
6ezmnde                2   Hydro                 SO           176:    9/89        :                          -        SO        50       50:
Gezende                 3    Hydra               50           176       1/89              -         -        -         -        50       50
Tercan                 I   Hydro                 15            30:    6/88                                   -        15        IS       15:
Kilickaya               I IHyOro                 60           166     b97                 -         -       60        60        60       bO
Kilickaya               2 lHydro                 601          1661      1/98              -         -        -        60       60        W0
Catalan                 1  Hydro                 51           169       6/99              -         -        -        51        51   :    1
Catalan                 2   Hydro                51           16Y9      9/98                                 -        52    - I          511
Catalan                 3:  Hydro                Si           169       1/89                             - -  -        -       51        51 1
Lasts                   4    Hydro               17            27:    1/90                -        -         -         -         -       17
Subtotal (2)                                                                            -      721    1,431    3,194    3,295    3,312
TOTAL HYDRO          :               :              :                                 3,849    4,569    5,279    7,042    7,143    7,160 1
11 at the end of each year



- 76 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 5
IUnitl  Fuel   I   Installed lAverage FullICosaissimingI    ---         --- Plant Capacities (in   l ------------- I
PLANT CAPACITIES (1) 111   ID I Type   ICapacity (hlNllutput (N!hil    Date           1    1995      1996     1997      198      1989     1990I
I-   *   ~ ~~~~~-------- ----- - -- -                    ----                                            ----I
_~~~~~~~~~~~ ___    __  _ _ _*__    _    ___   _ I              _ __  ___           __                           _           _     __
THERNAL                                       I
(a)  Existing Plants  t    t                          I             I              I                                                          I
------  --      ---- I  1                                                 I                                                          I
TElt                                 I              I             I              1  3,794    3,794    3,794    3,794    3,794    3,794 1
(bh  Ne Plants        I    I                                       t              t
TEKII                                               i
Elbistan A           I  I1  Lignite 1           340          1950 1    1/95            340       340       340      340       340       340 1
Elbistan A           1  21 Lignite 1            340 t        1950 I    1/86               -      340       340      340       340       340 1
Elbistan A           I 31 Lignite 1             340 1        1950      1/87               -        -       340      340       340       340 t
Elbistan A           1 4   Lignite t            340 1        1950        1 8/7            -        -       340      340       340       340 1
Vitagan                 31 Lignite 2            210          1260      4/85            210       210       210      2 0       210       210
Soma 8                  31 Lignite:             16  1         9901      1/8b              -      165       165       1b5      165       16I
Soma B               141 Ligniten               165I           9o9     4/86               -      165       165       165      165       165 1
Kangal                   11 Lignite t          150 I         900 1    9/87               -        -         -       150      150       150 1
Kangal                  21 Lignite              1501          9O       1/89               -        -         -       150      150       1501
Cayirhan                I 1 Lignite :150                       0        /801 6            -        -       150       150      150       150 1
Cayirhan                21 Lignite              150           900:     1/7                -        -       ISO      ISO       ISO       1501
Yenikoy                 I I Lignite             210          1230     10/96               -        -       210      210       210       210
Venikoy                 21 Lignite 1            210          1230      1/97               -        -       210      210       210       210
Scyitamer 4             I11  Lignite            150           00       4/88               -        -         -       150      150       150
Orhaneli             1  11 Lignite              210          1200 1    1/9                -        -         -         -      210       210
Yrni Catalagzi          1    Coal   1150 :O                            6/57               -        -       ISO       150      150       150
Thrace ST              I :    gas               100           600      2/96               -      100       100      100       100       100
Thrace ST               2    N.gas             o1001          600      4/86               -      100       100       100      100       IDO1
Thrace 6T               3  11s :n               100           600      6/86               -      100       100      100       100       100
Thrace 6T               4 1 N.gas               too           600:I    986                       100       3 100              100       100:
Thrace CC               1    I gas              100           600      5/67               -        -       100      100       100       100
Tlrac. CC               2     1gas  1           100           600      7/97               -        -       100      100       100       100
Subtotal(5)                                                                           50    1,620    3,370    3,920    4,030    4,030 1
TOTAL THERMAL                                                                         4,344    5,414    7,11       7,614    7,924    7,924
TOTAL INSTALLED CAPACITY:                                                                 9,192    9,993   12,443   14,656   14,967   14,984
11 it the end of mach year



- 77 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 5
AVAILABLE          1Unitl  Fuel   I   Installed  Average FulllCamuimsioningl               --- Available Beneratiln (in fiNhl --
BENERATION (Mhib      I ID I  Type   ICapacity EfluOutput l60hil    Date            1    1995       1996      1917     2986      1999      1990
--------------           ------I---------I----------- ----------                                           -        ----      ----      ..
:    I          I               I             2               I 1
HYDR0                         I          I                             I              1                                                            I
as)  Existing Plants          I         I                                                                                                          t
_____ __ -----   I          :               I             ,               I 
TEK                   :                               i :            I        :        12,262   12,762   12,762   12,762   12,762   12,762 ,
(bl  N.I  Plants       I                                                             I
TEK
Karacaoren              1 1    Hydro  1            31           142 I    9/87                          -        32      131       142        142
Kokiuce                 1      Hydro              45           290 .   11/7                 -         -      261       290       290       290:
Kokluce                  2  ; Hydro  1             45     :    290 1    6/07         :       -         -       261      290       290       290
Karakaya                 I    Hydro              300           2000 :    6/86                -      990     1,090    2,000    2,000    2,000 1
Karakaya                 2:  Hydro               300           1750 i    1/87       i        -         -      1575      1750     1750      17501
Kalrakya                 3:  Hydro               300            700:    9/87                 -         -         -      370       540       700
Karakaya              1 4 1  Hydro  1            300      :     564 1    1/8                 -         -         -      253       535   S 64
Kiarakaya             1 5:  Hydro                300            5641    6/88                 -         -         -       20       116       5641
Karakaya              1 61  Hydra                300:           127       9/l0               -         -         -        29      117       564
Kapulukaya               I I  Hydro                91            901      1/97      :        -         -        72       B0        00         001
Kapulukaya               21   Hydro                la            90 1    3/V7       :        -         -        54        70       70        71
KIpulukaya               3    Hydro                1s            901      6/7                -         -       36        76         0o       900
Altinkaya                I    Hydro              175            5981      9/97               -         -         -      529       599       5681
Altinkaya                21   Hydro               175:          598    1I1/                  -         -         -      352       569       5s9
Altinkaya                3    Hydro               1751          299:    3/90                 -         -         -       86       269       280
Altinkaya             1  4    Hydro              175            2989:    6/98       :       -          -         -      259       290       298
Adiguzel              1  1    Hydra                31           140       9/07      :        -         -       31       129       140       1401
Adiguzel                2   Hydra                 31St         1401      1/9       :       -          -        -       125       140       1401
fenzelet                  I Hydro                  30:           941      3/07               -         -       57        92        94        941
Iknzelet                 2    Hydro                30:           94:      6/97              -          -       39        0o        04        94:
Nenzelet                 3    Hydra  1             30:           841    9187                                    1 -  -  29  78     94        084
Nenzelet                 4    Hydro               30:            941      1/89              -          -        -        76        84        94
6ezende                  1    Hydro                o0           176b      6/90      :        -         -         -       79       167       176b
6ezende                 2      Hydro              50            1761      9/86      :       -         -         -        40       162       1761
Sezende                53lHydro  I                 S0           176:      11/9      :        -         -         -        -       259       176:
Tercan                  I     Hydro                15            30:      6/88      :       -        14        30        30        30        30
Kilickaya                I    Hydro  1             60           1661      6/7                -         -       75       159       166       166:
Kilickaya                2:  Hydro  :             60            1661      19        :       -         -         -       149       166       166
Catalan                1      Hydro  I51                        169:    6/09                 -         -        -        76       160       169
Catalan                  2:   Hydra  :                          169       9/                -          -        -        30       156       1691
Catalan                  3    Hydra               51            169:      1/99                             - -  -         -        52       169
Lamas                    4    Hydro                17:           27:      1/90      :       -          -        -         -         -        24:
* :    :        .                                             S :-- :-- ---                                          :-
Subtotal (2)        :0    1,004    4,431    7,741    9,663   10,991
TOTAL HYDRO                                                                            12,262   13,766   17,193   20,503   22,425   23,653:
11 at the end of each year



- 78 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment I
Page 4 of 5
AVAILABLE         :Unit:  Fuel   :   Installed  Average Full :oeeissioninq--             - Available Generation  in Gil) ---             :
GENERATIN  Uh)    : Dh10    Type   :Capacity (ro):0utput (fNII:    Date          :    1985      1986      19B7      199B     1m        1990 
_ __   ___  --__ ___                                                                      __--  --  - -     -    :
TNERHAL                 :    :          :              :
(a)  Existing Plants  :    :           :              :
TEK                  :                                                               13,802   13,802   13,202   13,202   13,202   13,202
(bh  Hem Plants       :    :
TEK                                   ' *
Elbistana              1  : Lignite :           340          1950       1185      :   1,000    1,755    1,755    1,950    1,950    1,950:
Elbistan A: 2: Lignite :                        340          1950:    1/86        :       -      975    1,000    1,365    1,755    1,950:
Elbistan A           : 3: Lignite :             340:         1950 :    1/87       :       -        -       877    1,107    1,304    1,304:
Eloistafn A: 4 : Lignite 1                      340          1 1950 1    l687     :       -        -       290       99     1,190    1,1901
Yatagan              : 3 : Lignite 1            210 :        1260 :   4185        :     BOO      9OO       900    1,134    1,199    1,260:
Soma a                  3   Lignite 1           165           9O        1196     :        -      594       594       693      991       9901
Soa B1 4 :Lignite :                             165           9901    4186       :        -      390       514       6B4      891       9901
Kangal                   I : Lignite 1          150I          900:    9197       :        -        -         -      540       540       540:
Kangal                : 21 Lignite              1501          9001      IBB      :        -        -         -      405       529       6161
Cayirhan                 I   Lignite            150           90:    9/06       :        -        -       540      540       630       810 ;
Cayirhnm               :2: Lignite              150:          9001     1/87      :        -        -       405      529       647       832 :
'lnikay              :  I : Lignite 1           210          1230     10/6       :        -        -       710      765       960    1,106 :
Yenikay                 2 :   Lignite 1         210          12301      1/97              -        -       553      700       873    1,122:
Seyitowr 4           :  1:Lignite :             150           900 :    4189      :        -        -         -      225       477       557:
rbaneli                  I   Lignite 1          210 :        1200 1    1189      :        -        -         -        -       540       5401
ieni Catalagzi       :  I    Coal   1           150           900" :    6/87     1        -        -       135      459       551       7091
Thract ST            :1:   .gas  1              100           600      2/86       1       -      375       575      600       600       600:
Thrace ST            :2:  U.gas  1              100           600:    4/96       :        -      300       550      600       600       600:
Thrace ST            :":  N.qas  :              100           6001    6/96       :        -      225       525      600       600       6001
Thrace ST            :4 :.gas                   100           600      9/96      :        -      150       500      600       600       600:
Thrac  CC               I :  i.qas  1           100           600      5/97               -        -       262      537       bOo       6001
Thrace CC            12:  I.gas  :              100           600:    7197                -        -       197      512       600       6001
:    :          :             :              :             :  ---    -- -    ----              -                --  :
Subtotal(51         :    :                         I                            :   1,900    5,554   10,772   15,503   18,425   20,065 :
T0TAL THERhAL         :    :                                                          15,602   19,356   23,974   29,705   31,627   33,267 :
TOTAL AVAILABLE           :    :          :              :                                                                                      I
TEK KERATIUN:               :               :                          :              : 27,B64   33,122   41,167   49,208   54,052   56,920 1
of which : Hydra    :    :            :             :             :              :  12,262   13,766   17,193   20,503   22,425   23,653
Thermal  :    1           :                                           :  15,602   19,356   23,974   28,705   31,627   33,267 :
:               :              :             :             :                                                          :



- 79 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment I
Page 5 of 5
SlUWAY TABLE
A. ff51TI. ill SALES                   1995      19       1907     198       1909     190
Existing Buration                       26064    26564    2594    25964    25964    25964
Hydra                               12262    12762    12762    12762    12762    12762
Therul                              13102    13902    13202    13202    13202    13202
Station loesr   (10                  1390     1390      1320      1320     1320      1320
Iet Existing Generation               24694    25194    24644    2444    24644    24644
New Generation                           1300      659      15203    23244    2MOBS   30956
Hydra                                   -      1004     4431      7741     9663    10t1
Thuru!                               100      5554    1M         15503    18425    20065
Station ma/loss   (1013              10       555      1077      1550     1343      2007
Not Neu Benratien                      1120    6u3    14126    21694    26246    29950
NET TOTAL GEERATION                   26304    31196    38770    463        50B89    53593
Imparts                              2520     2500      2500      2500     2500      2500
Purchasn                              150         -        -         -        -         -
TOTAL IIET AVAILABLE                  2E974    33686    41270    498        53Sr9    56093
Trans. losss 151)                    1449      1694     2063      2442     2669      2805
TOTAL BULl SUPPLY                     27525    32002    39206    46396    50720    5329
TUTL BULK SUPPLY OF hIC:H
Direct Sales (502I                  13763    16001    19603    23199    25360    26644
Distribution Etws (35022            13763    16001    19603    23199    250    26644
Network lossm  (15U2                 2064      2400     2940      3490     3904      3997
Net distribution maln               11699    13601    16663    19716    21556    22649
TOTAL SALES                         25461    29602    S266    42916    46916    49292
9. 699S GEEIRATION by FUEL TYPE  Et6)
EIISTINE
H-ydra                           12262    12762    12'62    12762    12762    12762
Lignite                           6751     9751      9713      8713     8713      8713
Coal                               562      562         -         -        -         -
Fuel oil                          4353      4358     4353      4359     4358      4359
Natural gas                          -        -         -                  _         _
Gas oil                            131       131      131       131      131       131
S9b-total                     26064    26564    25964    25964    25964    25564
Hydro                                -      1004     4431     7741      9663    10991
Lignite                           1800     4504      8039    11596    14274    15757
Coal                                 -        -       135       459      551       109
Fuel oil                             -         -        -         -        -         -
Natural gas                          -      1050     2599     344       3100      3600
Sat-total                       1900     6559    15203    23244    20898    30956
TOTAL
Hydro                            12262    13766    17193    20503    22425    23653
Lignite                          10551    13255    16751    20305    22987    24470
Coal                               562      562       135       459      551       708
Fuel oil                          4359     435a      4359      4358     4359      4359
Natural gas                          -      1050     2599     3449      3600      3600
Gas ail                            131       131      131       131      131       131
Te al                      27364      3122    41167    49208    5052    56920



- 80 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Tariff Study
1.       Introduction.  Following the transfer to TEK of responsibility for
urban electricity distribution in November 1982, TEK hired Electricite de
France (EdF) to assist in the resolution of a number of organizational and
operational problems emerging from its new distribution activities. As part
of its duties EdF was to: (i) provide guidance to the management of TEK on
policy and procedures; (ii) prepare detailed technical and economic
feasibility studies on the rehabilitation and extension of urban networks; and
(iii) provide a diagnosis of retail pricing. Because the latter activity
involved a general review of TEK's electricity tariffs, it was subsequently
agreed, in consultation with the Bank, that EdF would undertake a
comprehensive tariff study for TEK_/ with a view to recommending a revised
structure of tariffs based upon estimated long-run marginal costs (LRMC).
2.       EdF's study is being carried out in three phases:  phase I, completed
in May 1983, provided a preliminary diagnostic of electricity pricing in
Turkey and recommended a number of changes to the tariff structure; phase II,
completed in October 1984, consisted in the determination of LRMC-based bulk
supply tariffs for TEK; phase III, to be completed by end-June 1985, will
cover electricity tariffs at the medium- and low-voltage levels and check the
adequacy of the resulting LRMC-based tariffs with the financial requirements
of the sector. Preliminary results on the bulk supply tariffs are presented
below.
3.       Calculation of Long-Run Marginal Costs.  The objective of the tariff
study is to determine the level and structure of electricity tariffs that
would ensure that the tariffs reflect the true economic cost of electricity
supply, and generate enough revenues to finance the investment program for the
power subsector. Therefore, the study of Turkey's bulk supply tariffs is
being undertaken in two steps: (i) calculation of long-run marginal costs at
the high-voltage level; and (ii) determination of the average revenue. As of
March 1985 step (i) had been completed.
4.       The study, which was undertaken with Bank guidance, assumes that,
given a projected growth of electricity demand of 102 p.a. until 1990 and the
timely implementation of TEK's and DSI's investment programs, 1988 would
represent the first year when TEK's generating capacity would be able to meet
1/ The tariff study was therefore deleted from the terms of reference for the
load research, demand management and conservation study financed by the
Bank under TEK III (Loan 2322-TU).



- 81 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 3
demand; it is therefore selected as the reference year for the calculation of
the marginal cost of electricity supply at the bulk level. EdF used its
in-house computer model (GRETA)_/ to simulate the operation of TEK's
electricity system in 1988 and determine the load duration curve. The
simulation indicates that consumption would be clearly divided into three
time-of-day periods: 27% at peak, 47% in the off-peak day hours, and 26% at
night.2/ Furthermore, the simulation provides the basis for determining the
different components of the marginal cost.3/
(a) Marginal Capacity Costs
(i)  Generation Capacity:  The simulation exercise indicates that an
additional increase in electricity demand would be met by a
lignite-fired steam plant. Yenikoy 1-2 (2x210 MW) was taken as
being representative, with a construction cost of TL 350,000/kW.
The marginal capacity cost, expressed as annuitized investment
costs of the addition (TL/kW/year) less fuel savings
TL 2.48/kWh), is therefore calculated as follows:
Investment cost       -        1TL 350,000/kW
Discount rate         -         12%
Equipment life        -        25 years
0&M cost              -        3.5% of investment cost
Capacity factor       -        72%
Annual charge         -        TL 58,371/kW
Cii)  Transmission Capacity:  the marginal cost of transmission is
calculated on the basis of TEK's investment program for
1984-1988. The present value of transmission investments is
TL 420,745 million and the present value of the system load
increments from one year to the next is 3,356.15/MW. The long-run
average incremental cost of transmission is TL 125,365/kW,
equivalent to an annual charge of TL 15,985/kW (12% discount rate
and 25-year life). O&M costs were estimated at 2% of investment
cost. The marginal capacity cost of transmission is estimated at
TL 18,492/kW/year.
1/ With minor modifications to reflect conditions specific to Turkey.
2/ This is based on the assumption that no significant changes in the
patterns of electricity demand would have occurred between now and 1988.
3/ All costs quoted in the EdF study refer to January 1984 and have since
been updated to reflect January 1985 economic conditions, with an exchange
rate of TL 450/US$.



- 82 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 3
In Summary, and including system losses incurred at each level of
supply.Y, the marginal capacity costs are as follows:
TL-TW/Year
Generation             Transmission
Capacity Cost           Capacity Cost
At generation                       58,371                    -
At high voltage                    60,122                  19,047
(b)  Energy Costs: The results of the simulation directly provide the
marginal energy costs for the three periods of the day; namely TL
11.89/kWh for peak hours, and TL 11.44/kWh for off-peak hours (both
day and night).
5.       Proposed Tariffs.  Because electricity demand in Turkey varies
significantly during the day, EdF has recommended to introduce a time-of-day
feature in the electricity tariffs, at least at the high-voltage level where
metering equipment could more easily be installed../ The study also
considers that capacity addition necessary to meet incremental demand during
both pe!ak and off-peak hours is more a function of the average consumption by
all customers than a function of each customer's share in the system peak.
The marginal capacity cost of generation is thus translated fully into an
energy charge to be apiDlied to both peak and off-peak day hours according to
the relative levels of maximum demand in both periods.  This results into a
marginal cost of generation of TL 17.24/kWh at peak and TL 13.81/kWh during
off-peak day hours.
6.       Assuming a coincidence factror of 0.95 for high-voltage consumers, the
studv proposes the following HV tariffs:                                     -
Demand charge (TL/kW/year):                18,095  (  19,047 x 0.95)
Energy charge (TL/kWh): - peak             29.13   (  17.24 + 11.89)
- off-peak day   25.25   (  13.81 + 11.44)
- night           11.44
This is equivalent to an average tariff of TL 26.06/kWh for an average load
factor of 62% (5,400 hours).
7.       Since the consultants have established the data for Turkey on the
GRETA model the Bank has proposed that extensive sensitivity analysis be
conducted to assess the results against changes in timing of plant, demand
forecast and costs of capital and fuel supply.
1/ 3% at the generation level and 3% at the transmission level.
2/ This reco endation was actually adopted by TEK in May 1984 when
time-of-day tariffs were introduced for high-voltage consumers with a
subscribed demand greater than 1 MW. However, it has not been implemented
yet due to metering censtraints.
May 1985



- 83 -                                   REIEC 3.1
Page 1 of 2
1mRR          -
FWER S5M O&DI MSMTUE IW)ECr
legal Frauuiak of 7lK aid ldat" Caneal Legalatia
A. 1EK
mi    Date                   am                    Major Feature/Chwzges            Stahi
1312  07/15/70   Turkish Electricity Authwity  EItdbiih d      s  mder       Nullified by LI
M                             Inaw 440 with reajpuibility    2M05.
for electricity gelatial
aid trammissim ad
cantructim of theril
plmts.
2M5  09/11/82  hAndmts to La 1312               -  TransfErred irbat          Nullified by Lw
elecricity distribn   ID.
fran UMiCip9litiffi I
D3C.
-  Permis cawtructiam of
gmeratiog plints by
rivate cma rns.
110    Q IW 83   Turkish Electricity Athwcrity   -  CombixEd LaT  312 ssd     -Al1ified by LI
law                               2705.                     233, them replaced
by Primciple
-  Ina,emd msistat            Statute of M.
astu agss fra
C:tnco 8iX.
-  Puts TlK uidr SE Lw 63.
-  Oily wnicipalities not
intwcgrnected my build
aw gseratirg facilities.
-  Incremsl TEK's capital to
h500 billicr.
-     PibliAbed  Principle Statute of tie       -  Define  MX aS aPdilic    Valid.
1,19W;   Irkish Ele tricity Authcrity        Fonaiic Establislmmt
effective                                    uider iaw 233 aid uader
1it1a                                        the  isdictioa of the
Ministry of Emwgy amd
NatraL Resotces.
-  Increased Ti's capital ;D
Tll,=0 billio.
- Provides for Mt
coopecate with other
entities aid crrpmatims
in estiiliAiing
electricity  COChciCxU  aid
distribution facilities.



- 84 -                             AN= 3.1
Pag-e Z 0 2
B. GalL
Law     Date                Nm                  Ikior Featurea/Q ges            Sts
233   06/08/84 Decree  PegSaiuz pbl;ic       - Differentiates State       Valid. Precided
a=wmic eterprise  ad           Ewouic Enrprises          by Low 440 (194),
hbVin  dle force of law.        (Me) irnvolv in          Law 60 (1983) ard
cca rCiaI activities      Law 2929 (1983).
and Putlic EcoFmic
EstablisIts (FMs)
pmiidiug basic pulic
services as utilities.
- Clarifies respcmsibiliti.es
aini qalificatimns of
llmrd  Ai8
186    12/13/83 Organization and duties of   - Defines reponsibility      Valid.
the Ministry of Energy ard     of MOR to set policies
Eney and National sources    for energy planning
('PIR.                         ard pricing and to
review anmal investment
p=ram of mining
and enery agew:ies and
establi sqmn s.
657   07/14/65 Personnel Law                 Applies to Goverrn           Still valid, but
employees.                  revision
anicipated in
accordarae with
Law 233; may
ocoir by 1986.
2983  02/29/84 E=Eunagi% savirngs ad         - Creates Piulic             Valid.
(Lt)             accelerati  invesmt of         Participation FEzx.
the piblic sector.
2983  04/17/84                               - Permits revmuie-sharitg
(Regkla-                                          bonds for infrastructure
tirc)                                            (including pwer)
facilities.
3092/ 12/19/84 Law coternirg dte entrusting - Permits Turkish ard         Valid.
3096            of eletricity generation,       foreign capamies to
tranioassion, distributim      (a) operate as fully
and cace  to institutica       integrated electricity
other than the Thrlish         utilities within a service
Electricity Authority.         region, (b) foan a joint
stodk conpaw only for
electricity generation,
and (C) take over MR's
qperating rigit fr
particular facilities.
- The above rights wild be
valid for up to 99 years.
Mardi 1, 1985



lK X SVW CPTctAI1C    AUSTANCE PFROJECt
1wGh EkaMt A&ha (TEK)
OWWlnChar
II                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lu
Cr                      l           -               l
a    1~         -               -sr                                  -I   *l                           i
Ve"                                                                                         -  C- ^-*1vt-  
{E~~~~om                                      d- 1' 1
co                    W-
0I- cwo
___.,                                                                                                                                                                        e-i 
b0*- ~a0 0t-.
ow-- NW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~we



-86 -                              A         33
Pa swim oiWM uiMMM MIZ=
prsamu Uracdtm of d
Tntisd Ugcwidty haUiwity* a af4 31. 1934
1Wg        14_    admicza .   hhhiuiatwt           lbtal
Ia /b Ic
1. Oman I Pba                      -        1A          -        7      5     5       31
2. CAo     er1 BViCu
(  ra1 ebuarat                21        -           -       31    23    25       mG
Defu   Berewis                -         -           -        7     6      5      i8
GMta &  uit cdme               -        4           -        1     4    45       5S
P      _our     C ett         -         -           -        3     4      1       a
Adnisraveawvim               46          1           2     252    28    21   8D7
Pmaad Depwmt                  -         3           -       39    81    40       163
onSd nep t                     -        -           -    5   a  11  24
Accmstw  Depmt                 4        -           -       3D   130    90      254
T1Ap D1,ztm                    -        -           -        5     a    D        30
rtoa          h Le t          26       15           6       17    30    20      llS
C Qra1ctfEic Alium.           23        3           -       ID    1s   1B        71
&btDita                    537       26           8      440   310   293   1.644
3. patiau
TIwil Plmnt                5AOS        175          26     311   165       61 6.122
Gm TwbmePLtu                 246                    -       29      8     7      3ao
CODtiMI Plmta                 85        7           -        6     -      2      mD
cmtal ThIm l sm               31       40           6       6      17     4      U.
-Y&roPImtb                   998       87          43       m2    it    26   1348
RWV TrmAaiugi  NEDM&       3.13       176          23      99   256    30   4.573
ochrwvim            25         1       35          26       46    42      D      526
Dip etd.im                    60      la           39       A      3     9      lt
rrakmmgld                    220       22          15       39    25    14      335
Sbmotw                    _          E4          ua8 1B 52   573   163  13.570
4. Onwatia P Lumng aid
(- 
Planmg and Cardinau m         8        50           3        8     17    16      02
Caur.actiai  _ e               4        7           -        2      1     -       14
Dip aid Catin              1,251      299          64      M6    122    44    1946
id_ Plae Dainig omd
Caiaeuimn                    58       59           5       23     7      4     156
Sib l                    1.31       415           72     199   1.7   64   2,218
5. Tmmaiim PluM
md Ca,am i
P1nimg ad noip                33       78          IS       D      19     5     159
Cautructis                 3.566      21.5         in      723   139    47   4 229
Suotal                   359P       323          125     LX    158    52   438
6. Ditriuticn
Caltral Dim trii.timn
svif                       V2        65          51      42    66    35       431
bginial Distributim
lbtwrim                  1.472      9S4        1.057   8 278 3.173   87.  32 738
gb,tad                   8.664    1.i09        1.lD8     320 3.239   19  33.169
7. Amigiu  ID Kinistry
of  w /e                       -       12           3       17     7      4      43
IDL                        4.559    21.63       11.74   D.6   41.69 1.430  55.063
/a tp to aometi  of seomdwy .dkw.
hb Sam ptao-uary traiming.
/d  induh. qmrang ataff of SA T1ml P Plt.
/e  h^^rao1y ataff of  t=     ; .mtw.
hda 1, 185



ANNEX 3.4
87 -                           page 1 of 3
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
General Characteristics of TEK Power System
Generation and Generation Facilities
1.       TEK's gross generation in 1984 was produced as follows:
Partial                Total
GWh          Z        G              %
Hydroelectric Generation                                       12,200         47
Keban                                5,330         44
Other Power Ptants                   6,870         56
100
Thernoelectric Generation                                      13,800         53
Steam - Lignite-fired                8,750         63
Fuel Oil-fired               4,360         32
Coal-fired                     560          4
Gas Turbines)
) Gas Oil-fired           130           1
Diesel Sets )
100
Total Gross Generation                                26,000        100
2.       In 1984 TEK had, in commercial operation, nine steam power *-,tions
totalling 2,385 MW rated capacity, which produced 13,670 GWh during the year.
Six of these plants exceed 100 NJ rated capacity and accounted for 96% (13,100
GWh) of the electric energy produced by TEK in steam power stations in 1984.
During the same year TEK had in operation 38 hydroelectric power plants with a
total rated capacity of 3,600 MW. Only seven of these hydropower plants
exceed 100 MW-rated capacity and accounted for 85% of the hydroelectricity
generated by TEK in 1984. TEK also owns and operates three gas turbine power
plants, a combined cycle power plant, and a geothermal power plant, with a
combined rated capacity of 345 Mw.
Transmission and Subtransmission Systems
3.       The 46,135 km of transmission and subtransmission lirn.cPs r. operation
in 1984 are distributed by voltage level as follows:



ANNEX 3.4
- 88 -                            Page 2 of 3
Voltage Level                       Length
(kV)                             (km)
380                             3 ,945
220                                92
154                            14 ,073
66                             2,181
35                            22,937
15                             2,907
Total                               46,13 5
4.       TEK's substation plants in 1984 consist of (by voltage level).
Voltage          No. of           No. of          Transformer
Level       Substations       Transformers          Ratio          Total Capacity
CM-                                                  (kV)              (MVA)
380              14               29              380/154              4,380
1             220/154                176
154            204                90              154/66                 582
229              154/35               9,483
66             59                56               66/35                 281
56              66/15                 400
35 a/          91               103               35/15                 365
29              30/15                  131
Total            368               593                                  15 ,798
a/ These table shows only the subtransmission power transformers maintained
by the eight regional operations divisions.  (See para. 5 for transformers
operated and maintained by the 18 distribution enterprises.)
Besides power transformers, in 1984 these substations were equipped with the
folloving plant of major switchgear apparatus:
Voltage    Circuit    Disconnecting    Lightning       Current          Voltage
Level     Breakers       Switches       Arres-ters   Transformers    Transformers
COTV
380          80            291             15 1          184             169
154         992          2,959          1,054          2,609           1,763
66         200            582             401           543             328
35       2,492          6,923           3,703         7,538           1607
Total       3 ,764        10_,755          5 ,309        10 ,874         3 86 7



ANNEX 3.4
- 89 -                             Page 3 of 3
5.       The distribution systems of the 18 distribution enterprises consisted
in 1984 of the following facilities:.
Dis tr ibution
Primary Feeders            Secondaries      Transformers
Enterprise      35 kV   15 kV   6  kV   3  kV    220/380 V    Number   Calpacity
---=---m)-----                                               (VA)
Bogazici           753   1,179      255      -          7,683         648    2,666
G. Marmra          246      516     183      -          4,1?7         189       156
Ege              1, 147   1,050     193      -         8 ,159         785      306
Porsuk             597      137     352      -          3,645        290        47
Akdeniz            420      489       93     -          3 ,062        325        72
Meran              569      288   1,118      -          4,067         388        79
Ic Anadolu         633     250      309      -         7 ,193        582       621
Toroslar           608      587     286      -          5 ,715        576       152
Erciyes            443      570      58      3          3 ,506        330       47
Kahraman C.        323      292       76     -          1,926         234       116
Dicle              32 1     142      92      -          2,386         185       44
Firat              550       64     328      -          1,592         240        71
Vangolu             82      200       -      -          1 ,106         63        23
D. Anadolu         385      238     2 70     -          1,906         200        79
Kizilirmak         388       86      59      -         1,117         264        66
0. Mayis           632       28     246      -          1,583         502        91
D. Karadeniz       340     345      134      -         3 ,598        384        89
Ilgaz              202      260      33      -          1,494         104       13
Total        8,639   6 ,721   4 ,085      6        63 ,875      6,289    4,73



- 90-                                                       Um  35
-T
POWER SYSTEK OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
O^atiw hth2im  of 3jw Stm P4   tim. 198D-19S4
Yew                                        If
Nata   _ w-                            LAchkj   ta                  *Ad dA   -goEf 
C16:igpi             127.5      *       ibm 0ul    55  S7    55    57    52            266       50          21.2  19.2  20.0
1     H.        me94     4.000
2     20.0      9e       48000
3     21.5     1*9       4.000
4,5   2m21.5   1955       4,000
6     21.5    1956       4,000
Seyitr:              450.0             Li1nite       60    69    69    53    61        35.9     33.0  32.0  29.2  26.4  33.0
1,2     l5      1973      1.800
3    1W0.0     1977      I,s)
-izr.bileAk          129.0             Tign          42    23    58    74    N1%       32.2    N&I   Pi    30.8  31.5  ak
1,2   2z32.0    1956      3,650
3     65.0     1966      3,900
TixbilekI:           300.0             Lisimite      57    62    61    63    Wik       37.7     34.0  34.0  29.3  29.4  Mi
4    150.0    1978       2,200
5    150.0    1979       2,203
Sm B:                330.0             ligaie         -     -    NLi   16    41        36.4        -     -     -  29.3  30.0
t     IK5.o    1981       2,400
2     165.0    1983       2,400
:420.0            Lignite        -     -      -    40    75       40.0       -      -     -  36.9  40.0
1,2    210.0   M983       2,100
Adli:               630.0             Fuel Oil      70    80    64    75    77        38.3     37.0  38.0  34.0  34.0  38.0
1,2   2d10.0   1967       9,630
3    110.0    1970       9.630
4    150.0    1971       9,630
5    150.0    1970       9,630
hvuiI>le (lixKa)
n/ hAilAbility Factr -                  x 100
Period (HkW)
El   81
Num 8, 1985



POWER SYSTLN OPEUIAIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
otal Proirc C   Pa w    tid       M
(hi Ug "iIm  qirlut)
THEM  (NWWI       Rim  SRMDN                V1898  D13      D      W        N MSLJTOMf ISt S             I     U        nX SM                NUL
(at OV19n  rimo)
Fe    LC MML         PC   LCI UUL         rc    LC  ToL        PC   ILIMm.    I           LC    WML    PC    LC  MML          PC    tC fL          PC    LC    WML
1. SpecialYVie                       -      -     -       0.04  -      0.04    1.14  0.5   146J      -     -      -       1.12  0.18   143   OA    -        0(6D   0.51  0.08  O.57    2.11  0.2L   L35
2. amvim                             -      -     -         D005  -     0.05    OAS  0.!0  0.95    0.40  005  oAS    1.3   G.5   1.45   06  001  027    0."   0.05  0A9    IK8  OM3   241
3. Uo6tk4 ad EaAh  Equip.             1.3   0.17  1.49    0.98  O.    1.1S    4.13  0.57  4.m       9.25  1.25  D.D   B5A    2.56   V.8    0.78  O.D  o.a          5.28  OX    5.96   21.M   2.96  2.4D
4. 1mt and luri     t Eqpp.          0.34  0.01  0.55    0.01  -        0.01    2.38  O8  2.46    8.00  OilD0  3A D.93  0O89   11.2   03    0.05  0.59    3.eo  0.28  3.98    3.15 IS                 5 .6
5. Oil Tetih   ad Trsbt Equip.       -      -     -        0.49  0.06  0.55    -      -      -       0,30 O8  0.78    1.19  0.14   1.33   0Z6  001  0.07    0.40  0 a5  0.6              1.65  O.D   IA5
6. Lines & friS w tdihq Eq4.    -           -     -        -     -      -                    OOM   -  OM   -              Oim    -      O08   -       -     -       om   -       Om      0.11  -       oa;
7. etrical Equip. fa Utb. of
?w    o                          2.05  0.29  2.33    0.11  0.01  0.12       1.3   0.3m  1.3    20.    3.OD  23.00   23.54  3.49  27.03   1.17  01    1.34    7.93  1.D   9.06   32.64  4.79  37.3
8. Stm  L'I m i biler nb.O            2m   0.25   2.25    -      -      -       -     -      -       -     -      -       2.lD          2.    0.10  OI  0.11    0.7  OM    0.75    2.7   0 S    3.11
9. tuwe Puts Ir CqwrSiai             4.62  0.62   5.2      2.19  0.53  2.J2    2.12  0.3D  2.42   8OM    ID   9.          16.93  2.45   3.38   O.   0.12  O.S6    5.D  0.79  8.49   237  3.36  26.D
D. Wftlwiu  Equip.                    0.26  045  0,31    0.35  00   0.39    0.33  0.06  0.36    2.m   1.20  3.M    2.91   1.315   4.26   0.    0D7  0.21    0.98  0.45   1.3    4.03   1J7    530
11. EppleCtrol  .quip                 -      -     -       -      -     -        -     -     -        5.25  00   5.65    5.23  0.40   5.65   0.26  0a   0.7J    1.77  0.12  1.89    7.28  0.54   7.12
12. hctivePok.. Caqifetialq4.    -           -     -       *      -              2D5  0.45  2.50    -             -        2.05  0.45   2.50   0.10  0.0   0.12    0.69  01S  O4    2.84  0A2    3.86
U. kta  r sig quip.                   0.1  O04  0.22    03  ODI 01 04    08   01   0Gs               -     -      -       OA9  0.15   0.84   0.03  0.01  0.0        0.23  0.05  0.28    0.ff  0.21   1.6
.bteauL                           1.97   1.42  12.39    4.25  0.Q   5.07    15.25  2.04  17.29   53.60  7.78 61.38   5l.07  D.06  95.13   4.16  059  4.75   28.31  3.91 32.22   151 5.56  M.10
T=Mkig                               o03    0.3   1.01    0.15  OD8  033    0.25  0.16  0.41    2.03   1 22  3.3D    3,03  1.58   4.87   0.15  0.09  0.24    1.02  041   1.43    420  2.54   6.7
mtoWals                           I1.50   1.8D  U.40    4.40  0.9D   5.3D   13.50  2.20  L7.10   55.6D   9.30 64.60   87.10  3.SO  DiAl    4.31  066  4.99   2933  4.52 33.5  3ZD4  B.A   D9J48
ThdwiiaI Ic.latmi.                                                                                                         2m0  0.50   2.D)   0.05  O        0.07    0.34  0,6  0.50    2.39  OS    3.07
Cawanimof dt f Uai Gi    o   F iring                                                                                      12. D  160  14.30   04   04I0  0.14    3.33  0.52  3L85   16.7  2.22  109D
D3                                                                                                                    IM.0 s       IU 13.00a1 0  0.O  5.0    D 3.0  5.20 30.2D   W.D  22.01 13.
h   20, 293 



-92 -
mANI 4.2
-Y
POER. SYS7EK OPERATIONS ASSISTACE PIDJT
Prormt Under ZCl
ftoce.mt Simduls b1T Cotract *ackagm
Tandar                le-e.            aid
Doe.                of ITn-            yal-
Tomder  to Bank              der D.c            stt-              Award   Corn-    Can-
Doce.   & Pro-   Appr_-   A Pro-   Bid    ion   Appro-   of    tract   tract
Ccitract Packages          Cat.   Cm-   cemint    &l by              t    Open    to       ml by    Cou-   sign-  Cople-
DescripCtin              NoW   plets    Notice   lBak          Notice    i      lank    Bank      tract   inz    tics
Special VdbicLe              FD        07185    08185      09135      1035    12/as  03186   04156   04186  05186   06/87
S9n Vehicles                 FOA       07s85     0a8s      098s5    1018       12185   03/86   04/86    04186   05186    06/S7
Uoiating & lanliag Zqpec. os s  03185    09185              10/85     12/85    01/86  04186   05l86    05186  06886    07/87
Teat & Sirtemt Eqet.    PDA            06185     09135      1185      11/65    01/66   04/86   05186    051a6  06186    071/7
Oil Testing &Tre.tont         .cr     a 08/85    0owes      1085      11/85    01/86   04r86   05186    05186  06186    07/87
Zqpet-
Power Lin_ 4 9.itch Yard    POA-6   09185         WM        11/85     12185    02/86   05/86   06186    06186  07186    08/87
Yabing Eq_--
lect_ Eqpat. for Nibnbi-    POA       09/85     10/85      11/85     12/S5    02/86   05/186   05/86   06186  07186    08/87
litatiaa of Power system
Seam Line_ & Boiler Tubes   PoA        09/85     10/85      11/85     12185    02/86   05/86   06/86    06/86   07/86    08/87
Spore Parts fo  Operation    PO,      O985       10/85      1la5      12185    02/86  05/86    06186    06/86  07186    08/87
Uarkiiop Rqpot.              PFA       091ws     1/85       11/85     12185    02/86   OS/86   06/86   06/86   07/86    08/87
tipple C*itrod zqp_.          POA      07186     08186     09186      10/86    12/86   03/87    04187    04/87  05187    06188
feactive Ctmioatios          POA-12   01187     02/87      03187      04/87    06/17   06/87   09/87    10/87   11187    1218S
zqpENt 
Data Processing Eqwt.         POA      07/85        081S    09/85     10/85    12/85  03/86   04186    04/86  05186    06/o7
Ambzrl i Caiwera ion          PA-l   IL .A.      N.A.       N.A.      *.A_     I.A.    l.A.    N.A.    N.A.   N.A.    N.A.
MM:  Ecept for equi_ust required for the conversion of Anbarli to gas-firing in all other contr-act
delivary of equipumet and mterials would be staged to mt scheduled requiremts-.
IMPPZ
April 2. 1985



- 93 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page I of 2
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Operations Performance Monitoring Guidelines
Steam Power Stations
1.       Efficiency.  Average efficiency will be monitored on a monthly basis
and will be compared with design efficiency. Deviations of more than three
percentage points will be reported to the Thermal Power Operations Department
for analysis and follow-up.
2.       Availability.  Power units availability will be monitored on a yearly
basis.  Availabilities below 68% for lignite/coal-fired units or 80% for fuel
oil or gas-fired units will be reported to the Thermal Power Operations
Department for analysis and follow-up.
3.       Forced Outage Rate.  Power units forced outage rate will be monitored
on a yearly basis.  Forced outage rates above 20% for lignite/coal-fired or
10% for fuel oil or gas-fired units will be reported to the Thermal Power
Operations Department for analysis and follow-up.
Hydroelectric Power Plants
4.       Efficiency.  Average efficiency will be monitored on a yearly basis
and will be compared with average design efficiencies using appropriate
weighing factors. Deviations of more than two percentage points will be
reported to the Hydroelectric Power Plant Department for analysis and
follow-up.
5.       Forced Outages.  All forced outages will be monitored on a yearly
basis and reported to the Hydroelectric Power Plants Department for analysis
and follow-up.
Transmission
6.       Forced Outage Level-Lines.  Forced outage rates per 100 km of lines
at the different transmission levels will be monitored separately for the
winter season and for the balance of the year. Acceptable forced outage rates
for the different regions and seasons will be determined for use as
performance comparators.
7.       Forced Outage Level - Substations.  Forced outage rates at the
different voltage levels will be monitored for the major apparatus of
substations. Acceptable forced outage levels will be determined for the
different substation major apparatus for use as performance comparators.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 2
Distribution
8.       Distribution Losses.  Actual technical losses will be determined on
an annual basis for the distribution systems of each distribution enterprise.
9.       Voltage Regulation.  Voltage regulation along the feeders will be
determined at least once a year at peak load by measurements on the secondary
of distribution transformeres.  Voltage regulation in secondary circuits will
be determined by statistical sampling after measurements at peak load.
10.      Forced Outage Levels.  A comprehensive statistical record will be
kept in all distribution enterprises of forced outages involving: substations
circuit breakers, primary feeders, distribution transformers and secondary
circuits. Forced outage levels will be compared between distribution systems
and with foreign comparators.
Definitions
I1.      Efficiency.  Means net efficiency of a power unit after deducting
auxiliaries consumption.
12.      Availability.   Availability of a power unit is measured by;
Available Hours. 10.0
Period Hours
13.      Forced Outage Rate.  Forced outage rate of a power unit is measured
by;
Forced Outage Hours         x 100
Forced Outage Hours + Service Hours
14.      Forced Outage Level-Lines.  This level is measured by the number of
forced outages per 100 km of lines at the different voltages.
15.      Forced Outage Level-Substations.  This level is measured for each
major apparatus by the number of forced outages divided by the number of
apparatus of each type.
16.      Forced Outage Level-Distribution.  This level is measured for each
major constituent of a distribution system by the number of outages divided by
the number of units in each constituent.



TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Proiect Disbursement Schedule
(in US  I 11ian'
YEAR          1986                1987               1988                198q                1990                     Totals
L/C       F/C      LlC       FIC       LIC       F/C       L/C       F/C       L/C      F/C           LIC      fIC       SUR
COST ITEMS
0perational Area
Fawer GeneratiOn:
-Thermal                                              0.071    0.549    0.213    1E646    0.426    3.291         0.417    3.840    0.213    1.646            1.42    10.97    12.39
-Hydro                                                0.041    0.213    0.123    0.639    0.246    1.273    0.287    1.488    0.123    0.638                 0.f2      4.25     5.07
Transieasion                                         0,102    0.763    0.306    2.289    0.612    4.573    0.714    5,338    0.306    2.288                  2.04'   15.23    17.2?
Distribution                                          0.389    2.680    1.167    e.040    2.334   16.090    2.723   18.760    1.167    9.040                 7.79    53.60    61.38
Traininq
Specialized Traininq Overseas                         0.077    0.127    0.231    0,380    0.462    0.757    0.53q    0.L86    0.231    0.380                 1.54      2.53      4.07           '
On-the-Job Training                                  0.015    0.025    0.045    0.075    0,090    0.150    0,105    0,175    v.0iJ    0,075                  0.30      0.30     0.80
Technical Assistance
Proyision of Engineering Services
for Project Implementation                            0,015    0.010    0.045    0,030    0.090    0.060    0.105    0,070    0.045    0,030                 0.30     0.20      0.30
Studies                                               0.010    0,040    0.030    0.120    0.060    0.240    0.070    0.280    0.030    0.120                 0.20      0.80      1.00
Conversion of Anbarli to 6as-Firinq
Supply and Instalation of Netessarv Equipment    0.080    0.645    0.240    1.935    0.490    3.870    0.560    4,515    0.240    1.935                      1.60    12.90    14.50
Total Base-Line Cost (in Jan. 1985 prices)           0.800    5.053      2.400   15.152    4.800   30.294    5.600   35.352    2.400   15.152               16.00   101.00   117.00
Contingenciest
Physical Contingencies (5Xl                           0.040    0.`40    0.120    0.742    0.240    1.510    0.280    1,760    0.120    0.750                 0.80      5.00      5.90
Price Contingencies                                   0.0l0    0.480    0.430    2.790    1.320    8.630    2.170   14.160    1.210    7.940                 5.20    34.00    39.20
TOTAL PROJECT C05T AND REQUIRED FINANCING          0.910    5.772    2.950   l8,684    6.360   40.434    8.050   51.212    3,730   23.842                22.00   140.00   162.00
EMPPE
March  6,  1985



- 96 -                            ANNEX 4.5
TURKEY
POWER SY_aIE OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursemen. Schedule
Cumlulative Disbursement at
Bank Fiscal Year and Semester                          the End of Semester
IS- Million           %
1985
June 1985                                  Approval of Loan
1986
Deceuber 31, 1985
June 30, i986                                        3                 2
1987
December 31, 1986                                   6                 4
June 30, 1987                                       15                11
1988
Decenber 31, 1987                                  24                 17
June 30, 1988                                      45                 32
1989
Deceuber 31, 1988                                  65                46
Jume 30, 1989                                      91                 65
1990
December 31, 1989                                 116                 83
June 30, 1990                                      129                92
199 1
Decenber 31, 1990                                 140                100
EMPPE
March 13, 1985



ANNEX 4.6
- 97 -
TURKEY
POWER SYSTE( OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Comparison of Disbursemeat Profiles
Year from Date of Board Approval
1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8
_  ( %   )__        _ _ _  _
Proposed Loan                     2     11    32    65    92   100       -      -
EMENA Region Power Projects       3     18   42    65    82    93    99   100
Bank-Wide Power Projects         4      18    39    62    81    93    99   100
EMPPE
March 18, 1985



- 98 -
ANNEX 5.1
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Bulk (High Voltage) Electricity Tariffs;  1983-1985
Date Effective            06/01/83   11/01/84   01/01/85   03/01/85   04/01/85
1. Double-term a/
A.  Power (TL/kW/Year)   5040      10,800      12,000     15,000      18,600
B. Energy (TL/kWh)        6.95      17.00      21.00       25.00      29.15
Time-of-day
Peak                          24.10      28.00       32.00      40.45
Day                           16.10      20.00       23.00      29.15
Night                         14.10       15.00      17.00       19.40
2.  Single-term a/ (TL/kWh)
Energy Customers        8.35      19.30       23.00      26.50       32.80
Villages                6.60      12.10       13.00      15.00       18.85c/
3. Resulting Average Bulk
Tariff (TL/kWh)           8.05      17.15       19.00      21.80       26.16
Of Which: TRT Tax                --                -        0.80       0.95
Plus; V.A.T. (10%)         ---        ---        1.90       2.18        2.62
Average Bulk Tariff
paid by consumer         8.05     17.15      20.90       23.98      28.78
a/ Excludes Value Added Tax of 10% effective 1/1/85.
b/ Includes 3.5% charge collected by TEK for Turkish Radio and Television
(TRT)
c/ To be confirmed.
May 6, 1985



- 99 -
AMRI 5.2
TUMKEY
POWEP SYSMPE RATeDNS ASSISANCE Pl)J=
Bulk (Hiei Voltag) Tariffs CaDpsred
with lEK's AvearW Revenu and Inflatiin
Average HV Tariff         Avera- Revenlue /a          IDEflation    /b
Nacnial
Date    IL/IGh      Irxcrease    TL/k%         Incr            Inrease in WI
1982                               7.3%         48%               25%
03/01      5.82        2%
05/01      5.95        2Z
08/01      6.19        4Z
11/22      6.99       13Z
1983                               8.9          22%               41%
06/01      8.05       15%
1984                              13.9          56%               51%
01/01     11.55       43%
02/01     12.05        4%
05/01     13.55        12%
08/22     14.20        5%
09/24     14.65        3%
11/01     17.15       172
1985 c/                         rna             nla               n/a
01/01     21.90       22%
03/01     23.98        15Z
04101     28.78       202
a Represents average revemue fran bulk (hiOd& voltage)
sales of electicity during dte year.
b/ WI =  Jo1lewle price index
c/ Including V.A.T. of 10% effective 111/85,
and 3.5% Turkish Radio and Television (C) diarge
effective 311/85.
May 6, 1985



- 100 -
ANNUEX 5.3
POWER SYSTM CPERAFT    ASSISYANCE PHUECT
ietail (Low Voltage) Electricity Triffs: 1983-1985
As chred by TEK's Distribution Enterprises
Date Effective          06/01183 01/01/84 05/01184 11/01/84 01/01/85 03/01/85 04/01185
c/  UT #   c/ W/
Double Tern
A. Power (lLlkW/yr)      5,292    8,004    9,600    12,000       13,200 16,W20    20,400
= (IL/kWantth)      441       667      800      1,000      1,100  1,350     1,705
For consuption mer
contracted levrel
('IL/Gi/ruxfh)        650      900    1,100      1,400       1,400  1,650    2,215
B. Emergy (ih)
Coameroe             11.70    15.10    20.80    24.80    27.OD    31.00        37.65
Industry             10.2D    13.60    16.80    20.80    23.00    26.00        32.15
Time-of-)ay
Peak                     -        -    19.50    27.75    30.00    34.00        44.30
y                        -        -     16.00    19.75    22.00    25.50      32.15
Nigt                     -        -    15.00    17.75    17.00    19.50        22.15
Single Ternna (T1L )
C_ouzrce                13.15    17.30    23.50    27.45    29.50    33.75       42.10
industry                11.65    15.80    19.50    22.50    25.50    29.00       37.65
Residents               11.90    11.90
to 16.00 /b
Up to 60    b/inth                       15.50    17.85    19.00    21.75       27.70 e/
lExt 240 k1Ifurh                         21.50    25.50    27.50    31.75      39.90
Over 300 1Iw/nth                         31.50    35.50    37.50    43.00       55.40
a/ Tariffs for larpst cuscazer goups only are shoin for illustration.
Other tariffs apply to organizatioi, gorerzmtal building, etc.
b/ 11.90 T[/kI4 for first 50 IWmmth.
16.00 WLMk  fi additimal conswption.
c/ Excluding Value AdIed Tax of 10%.
d/ Inclxzding 3.5% dcarge oDIlected by UK and transferred to Turkish Radio anI Teleurision
ef To be ccmfirmed. Applies to houeiolds using up to 90 kmfnth.
Fi1ecaz: TARIFF
hy 6, 1985



- 101 -
TUlREY                                        ANNEX  5.4
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORIT1 (TEK)
StatRIent of Incoe and Expense 119911-1901
lillions of TL in current prices
,---at.--- --                 -Estd-        --- - -_                            - ->Fe- -~  -     --------
1991     1992        1993        19B4        1995        1996       1987        1999        I9          1990
Sums     alts        usa.        UEs         uss   *sEm             Eman                    sums        ms
Electricity SaleilGIhI   20,010   22,516        21,291      24,26      25,461      29,602      36,266      42,916      46,916     49,292
Average Tariff(krslklh)       491      731       1,099       1,692      2,692       3,556       4,566       5,66B       6,593       7,358
OPERATING REVENBES
Total Electricity Sales            99,495  164,611    233,614    410,203    695,478  1,052,719  1,655,863  2,432,686  3,093,097  3,626,660
==CZ===  1- =:=  z==s=:X==sX ZZBUZc- -__c--=C    sssss s==   rzzr =Zzz  zuzxw ss           z s_-s=   2215222=C2
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel
Coal                     3,859    5,626        5,770       6,770     14,466      18,806       5,647      22,991      31,805     44,954
Lignite                  9,932   12,209       25,297      42,789     75,967    124,067    195,997    295,138    371,148    434,602
Gas Oil                  9,912   14,044       29,999       9,962      8,712      11,325      14,156      16,987      19,536     21,489
Fuel Oil                21,039   33,860       49,773     64,6b7    130,566    169,735    212,169    254,603    292,794    322,073
Natural Gas                  0         0           0           0           0     15,015      46,457      73,981    89,903       97,683
Total Fuel Costs          44,741   65,738    108,829    124,101    229,710    338,948    474,416    653,698    804,065    920,801
Purchased Poner            5,818   12,059       29,137      37,973     55,783      60,806      65,407      75,248     90,891      94,936
Materials                  2,339    3,024        5,131       5,069      6,319       8,639      12,078      15,880      18,752     20,734
Labor L Personnel          7,008    9,889       27,477      35,831     44,665      61,057      85,373    112,253    132,551    146,563
Misc. Expenses               969    2,149       15,121      15,971     :9,784      27,045      37,815      49,721     598,12      64,919
Depreciation               5,635    6,233       17,304      23,384     42,880      64,003      88,722    114,546    148,879    196,369
Indirect Taxes                78        79         269         312        367         422         474         522         561        589
Keban Payments                                                   0     80,192    109,462    143,668    181,022    212,339    238,2U
Total Operating Expenses           66,587   99,171    203,266    242,541    399,509    560,917    767,294  1,023,969  1,244,430  1,424,910
OPERATING INCOME                   31,908   65,440      30,349    167,662    285,971    491,802    889,579  1,4089817  1,848,667  2,201,750
Non-oper'g Income (Expensesl       (1,732)  11,521)       2,013      5,000      11,500)    11,725)    (1,9411    12,135)    (2,295)    12,410)
GROSS INCOME                       30,176   63,919      32,361    172,662    294,471    490,077    986,638  1,406,682  1,846,372  2,199,341
Income Deductions:
Total Interest Expense         15,223   39,453      59,724      37,300      42,550    105,997    176,098    300,977    413,390    539,502
less:Interest During            4,269   16,645      12,895      27,630      25,000     59,244      96,849    165,539    227,364    296,176
Construction
let Interest Expense           10,954   21,801      46,829       9,670      171550      47,654     79,240    135,440    186,025    242,326
NET INCOME (pre-taxl               19,222   42,111    114,4691   162,992    266,921    442,423    907,399  1,271,243  1,660,346  1,957,015
less:Incoee Taxes                 8,582   19,181           0           0      45,197    106,768    176,969    322,959    508,497    664,139
=======  ==_ == _ ===   =        =====2     =======   e=        == =:=====: =======: =:=======  ::==:==:=
NET INCOME (after tax)             10,640   22,930    114,468)   162,992    201,724    335,655    630,429    948,283  1.151,549  1,292,876
filename: income                                   Date: 14-May-85



- 102 -
TlumET                                   ANNEX  5.5
T7 INSl  ELECTRICITY AUIITOIIT  ITEK)
*Zlauca Ra (1931-11901
NullRmnso TL In curreat pricus
1291     2112        2993       2934        295        193         1917        193        1919        1990
ISSET15                              ....     go..        E-mms       mm         Sm.M        m.a    . Som
Long-term has
Fixed hAts is Serice         143,101  170,244    530,439    945,44  1,504,31   2,152,434  2,917,333  3,742,459  4,764,855  5,U14,737
Inst  ccm d bprKiation   37,195   45,041    120,001    191,392    234,272    293,275    336,997    50,543    652,421    338,769
Hit Fixed kAts in Service 110,106  125,203    410,431    754,102  1,270,544  1,54,209  2,530,336  3,231,926  4,112,434  5,045,90
Hurt In Progrns              253,379  419,701    557,299    790,341        22,317  1,221,207  1,994,391  3,220,293  4,443,716 5,791,435
Other Long-tar;  suts            764    1,429       2,203       3,000       3,55       4,583       5,72        1,374      7,905       3,69
Total Long-tern huts         364,749  546,333    9*9,923  1,547,443  2,096,656  3,079,999  4,530,455  6,466,05  3,534,054 10,346,123
Currnnt hAuts
Cash tI lasts                  3,242    5,0*0      15,242      20,742     24,372      71,63       39,604    107,35      123,654    131,019
Akcosts Rcaivabla             52,922  122,367    170,567    203,419    240,000    317,253    453,661    599,30    762,681    394,245
Hatarial I Supplin            12,573   13,340      24,727      35,023      41,19      5,505       66,32       80,25B     92,291    101,526
Prepayants                       391       523         444        500         900        90          900         910        900         90
Total Currnnt hk tt           69,127  142,290    210,990    264,759    306,430    443,346    612,047    733,523    979,532  1,232,690
Defarrad Debits                       413      444         set      1,000         600        790         975       1,170       2,346      1,430
m ..S..    ssam  oslsaseu    m.mlmm o. .sos   Molan-.  aNNMaSo    ma....             man....  emss.....
TOTAL ASSETS                     434,294  639,07  1,211,792  1,313,202  2,403,636  3,524,125  5,142,477  7,255,776  9,564,932 11,980,298
miue.Wmesa   smmam.Smum    am..  ...aamS.m   iSt.AASS  ESSeSSSS  samass. Stm-*.a.
ClPITAL L LIABILITIES
Capital Roswre  I Surplus
Capital                       76,370  143,072    213,509    623,50t    693,307    342,107  1,090,937  1,373,661  2,601,332  1,343,392
Retained ELarings              16,191   33,233      13,765    131,757    3B3,432    719,1236   ,349,511  2,297,343  3,449,693  4,742,574
Total Paid-in-Capital         92,5tl  176,305    237,274    B05,266  1,077,233  1,561,243  2,440,552  3,67t,509  5,051,529  6,536,464
Rmrves                         6,97    13,0*7      23,417      13,000      15,000     15,000      15,000      15,000     15,Ou,    15,000
Village Elctrificalon Fend  19,570   19,321         13,306     172,15      26,325     15,334      14,344      13,353      12,363     11,372
Revaluation Rnarve            54,672   54,666    203,005    357,191    357,191    357,196    357,196    357,196    357,196    357,19
Total Capital and Reuwses  173,773  263,B49    497,502  2,195,277  2,466,309  1,94,273  2,327,592  4,062,55   5,436,583  6,970,532
Long-ter Debt
Local Iaut                    42,936   58,541      66,792      58,124      71,791     34,769      9,552    109,329    116,547    113,773
Foreign Debt                 112,500  18t,955    295,472    420,112    631,112  1,109,326  1,763,621  2,563,244  3,440,362  4,276,534
155,436  240,496    32,253    479,236    702,903  1,194,595  1,365,163  2,677,972  3,557,409  4,390,307
Is:Oe ins 1  aw 1r 0,5561 (14,341)   (19,4992   (35,00)    132,3001  1141,5932  (212,0231  (306,324)  (425,3052  1300,000)
Total Long-ter Debt          144,330   25,655    342,754    443,236    621,903  2,053,002  1,653,140  2,371,149  3,232,604  4,097,307
Currant Liabilities
Accounts Payable              72,965  132,242    22,992        a0,000    125,000    132,500    149,063    163,969        76,261    135,030
Tazes Acrued                   11,56   24,136       10,302     12,376      45,000    176,69    221,211    215,454    305,272    335,799
LT Ddt due in I lear          10,556   14,341       i9,499     35,000     31,000    141,593    212,023    301,324    425,305    300,000
Other Current Labilities       6,642    9,545       5,163       6,000      12,050     13,359      15,590      17,149     13,435      19,357
Total Currant LIabilitie    100,719  190,314    317,949    1n,376    263,050    464,919    597,U7    733,9              925,779    340,2
Other Lliabilliti
Custoer  apositWdvances    6,617    3,35           21,330      29,000      30,323     31,339      34,595      36,325     33,141      60,043
Self Insrancesr,es             6,041    4,834       6,239       7,000      11,155     13,403      15,079      16,531     17,331      23,722
Deferred Credits               2,259    5,059       6,013       7,922      10,440     22,181      14,195      15,763     24,99       20,453
Total  ther Litailities       14,917  12,749       33,5B7      42,312      52,413     56,9,0      63,3        13B,674    70,962      79,224
mmsa  m-na mmamma -aMm-Sm  ---a                   . mmms_s-  mm.m.m   mm   amtmm N-        -         --l.mm
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIAILITIES       434,294  639,067  1,132,792  1,313,202  2,403,66  3,524,125  5,142,477  7,255,776  9,564,132 21,930,293
auma.       _      sm m smm    amamn  .ma.            Seam... inMmmmm   .m.... mam mNmmmmmmm
filleae  balace                                   Data: 24-Hay-5



- 103 -
T__                                                                     ANNEX  5.6
TURKISII ELECTRICITY AUTIh1 (11TEK)
Usrces ad Om   of Fuui, (1981-199
Hillist of TL in ctrrnt prices
----Actual------    -Etd-   ---------------Frs                                     t-----------    lotal
1911     1932       1913       2934       1915       29         1937      Il          13         i2      I23-90           (2
EU    S OF rw                      sum      mu.        uu         mm.                                 ..       - -        u_         mu        mum.....
(TL hilIlml
ross Ince                        30,176   63,919     32,36     112,162    234,471    490,077    33,U6    1,406,32  1,346,172  2,19,341          7,215          712
plus: OsprKclatim                 5,635    6,233     17,304     23,334     42,10       66,063     *,722    11M,4       143,373     36,38          147           SZ
ross Internal Cash   nnratiom    35,311   70,152     49,65    19i,044    327,351    554,0K0    975,310  1,523,229  1,995,250  2,335,709         7,761          772
[est Dbt lIrvice
Principal Payouts           3,000    3,313     13,0       9,130      30,32      109,227    141,593    212,023    301,324    42,105        1,276          132
Internt Payments           10,954   21,90      46,82       9,670     17,550     47,656      79,240    135,440    136,025    242,326         73            n
Total hbt Euvice           13,954   30,121     59,917     ",Boo      97,373    156,111   220,U2    347,413    692,349    661,130          1,994          202
Nut Intweal Cash kneratlon       21,837   40,032    110,2521    91,246    229,474    397,199    754,527  1,175,7U  1,502,441  1,717,571         5,777          5n
Increase in Long-term Debt
Local                        12,000   15,05       9,556      7,473     15,000      19,500     25,000     35,000     40,250     44,275         179           21
Foreign                      19,000   69,45    125,289    191,64      290,000    392,010   s5, 704    436,1I       710,739    370,342       3,459          341
Total Borroing                 31.000   35,060    134,B45    206,113    305,000    411,530    534,704    671,111    101,         96 W 14,617   3,33           3u
Equity Contributions             33,000   66,72       4,497    365,000     50,000     67,600     37,10    109,674    131,170    250,059           596 6l
IncruasWscr) i Other Liabtl.  37,000   13,403        24,109     (2,1013    10,615      3,522      5,93        3,025      1,291      7,271          32          o0
mudmum    mmmum  fMMUmu   uusum    mDums   umumms .             umu_  a  mu          __- mu . *-. mummumu      n-mm .
TOTIAL SO8RES IOF FEDS          127,857  205, 1t    213,273    65,176    595,099    379,90   1,3B3,049  1,960,376  2,465,907  2,739,524        20,046         1001
umwm.. uun.   ufm"mm     mummumu. .mmm             mum-mum  uammusm, mumm  umummumum  mammas:                 muum 
ISES OF FUlNDS
Thrmal Posr 6enration            84,000  122,046    171,711    252,571    279,013    341,191    S11,460    707,533     3 9,752    990,919       3,79            M8
Trmseissron                      41,000   36,858    463,9       77,747    134,023    139,18    193,529    264,0l   316,024    365,696           1,415          152
Urban Distribution                    0   2,170      34,494     33,036     73,433    114,35      152,016    329,303    393,222    424,679       1,479          15I
Villages   Other                 25,000   20,597     20,214     47,562     04,747    130,519    172,572    227,064    179,758    230,271        1,025          102
Total Capital Expenditures      140,000  117,971    272,424    410,916    571,270    776,254  1,099,577  1,529,30   1,793,597  2,011,351        7,767          m
Incrlbcrl in Other Assrts           275      691      4, 63        908        125      1,233       1,341      1,341      1,207        925           6           o0
Income Taxn                       3,512   19,2IB          0          0     65,197    106,718    176,969    322,959    509,697    664,139        1,145          232
Incr(Decr) in  aorling Capital   (21,0002  12,667)   (63,7871   253,353    141,503)    (4,360)   105,164    116,769    137,607    112,396         427           41
umumas. .mumms  su.m-um  mu- u us..mmu.uu   mumumum  mummumm  .-mMIIsm  smammas.  mumumu.                       m
TOTAL USES OF FillS             127j857  205,219    213,273    665,176   595,099      19,90 "O    1S33,049  1,960,376  2,435,97  2,709,524     10,046         1002
tmmuM- .m    m    uum  uMumamma          u     m -mumusutuM    uu.mu    umumsm   m-m,mum. mum-mums.           mumut * ----
filome: sorces                                  late. 14-flay-S



- 104 -
ANNEX 5.7
TUIIIN ELECTRICITV AUTHORITY
FINEIML R111108 11911-19901
Iktul          ~~~-Estd-     ----- --- --- ----------- lor cst--- ---------------------
191     1982       1913        1914      I15         106 1       1917       199        1999        1990
mas,     "          sm.  _  m    . as..    _ m..  m..  so    .. .            Nunn    .     ..          .
PoRr SubsectorllEK and DSI)
intwrnal Cash Bieration t                 201      211        211        -311        3U1         431        491        57%         621         31
Internal Cash Generation to               131      192         o0         112
Det Strvic  Coverage                     2.6      2.3        0.9         2.0        3.3         3.5        4.4        4.4         4.0        3.6
TEK only
Current Ratia                            0.7      0.9         0.7        2.0        1.2         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.1        1.3
Debt/Debt I Equity                       0.5      0.5        0.4         0.3        0.3         0.4        0.4        0.4         0.4        0.4
Days Rceivables                          196      272         21A    6   19B        22          110        100         90          90         90
mlncluding change in uorking capitallLoan Aqremnt definition)
olExcluding change in  aorking capital lacne maning4ul in 91-94 due to swings in uIc)
UOIK9HEET FOR CALCULATION OF INNTERAL CASH 6EEERATION              iIL million in current prices)
1981     19B2       193        1994      I195        1996        1997       2989      I99         1990
Gras Incoam                     30,176   63,919      32,361    172,662    294,471    490,077    996,139  1,401,682  1,841,372  2,19,341
plus:depreciatimn                5,135    1,233      17,304     23,394      42,110     14,003     96,722    111,541    149,978    196,369
Gross Internal Cash Generation        35,911  70,152      49,665    196,046    327,351    554,080    975,310  1,523,229  1,995,250  2,395,709
lessslncrilDecin non cash 1kg Capl (21,0001  14,465)   173,9191   247,953    (45,1331   (52,172)    97,243         99,949    121,478    100,531
less:TEK debt service                 13,954   30,121     59,917        ,B900    97,970    151,991    220,B32    347,43    492,949    669,Ise
lessu:SI debt srvice(pmwr only) I        N/A      N/A       NMI       17,000     24,310     34,946      48,225     63,779     80,679      92,790
pluszzncr(DecrCustomer Contrihn          500    2,239       9,474      6,670      2,323       1,516      2,756      1,730       1,916      1,907
pla:sKeban paymnts N1                                                            62,549      B5,390    112,061    141,197    165,624    195,830
Net Internal Cash Generationm   43,357   46,735      73,191   1161,937)   315,169    500,921    733,P77  1,151,067  1,467,695  1,712,004
Not Internal Cash Generation*#  22,357   42,270        (7751    95,916    270,036    449,149    821,120  1,254,916  1,59,1163  1,912,535
TEK Investmnts                 140,000  181,971    272,424    410,911    571,270    776,254  1,099,577  1,519,306  1,788,597  2,011,565
D51 Invetmnts                   30,000   45,906      70,966    110,600    293,750    390,039    440,945    516,293    579,721    707,799
Total Pemer Investmnts          170,000  227,977    343,390    521,516    965,020  1,156,293  1,540,422  2,035,599  2,360,319  2,719,364
NOTESs I Estimated. To be confirmed.
U  TEK's paynnts to the Public Participatian Fund, not of intrnet
paid to holders of Keban revenue-sharing certificates.
#Including change in morking capital (Loan Agreement definition)
"Excluding change in working capital (more meaningful in 1-B94 due to swings in u/c)



ANNEX 5.8
- 105 -                          Page l of 4
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
General Assumptions
1.       Starting in 1983, the financial statements show the situation of
TEK as a consolidated utility selling electricity to customers on both the
wholesale and retail level, therefore. including the eighteen new
distribution companies. However, the value of distribution assets in service
has not been included, because it has not yet been determined by the
concerned authorities.
2.       The forecasts were made in Turkish Lira in current prices applying
the following inflation rates;
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Local Inflation                35    30       25     20      15     10
International Inflation         5      7.5     8      8       8      8
The exchange rate prevailing in January 1985 (TL 450 = US$l) was used as a
base rate. In order not to understate the TL cost of the foreign component
of expenditures, however, it was assumed that depreciation of the Turkish
Lira would occur, equivalent to th- differential between forecast local and
international inflation rates.
Income Statement
3.       The forecast for sales of electricity was derived from the
mission's forecasts of capacity available for electricity generation. Given
the expectation that an electricity deficit will continue, and that TEK will
not be able to meet forecast demand in 1985-1989, the sales forecast was not
based on the demand forecast in Annex 2.1. Available high voltage supply
would be sold 50% to HV industrial customers, and 50% to TEK's distribution
enterprises for on-sale at the LV level. The resulting growth rates in total
electricity sales (HV and LV) are as follows:
1985     1986      1987     1988     1989
5       16       23        18        9



- 106 -                      ANNEX 5.8
page 2 of 4
4_       Tariffs  were increased as needed to meet financing requirements,
and so as to reach LRMC by 1989. The actual average tariffs effective
1/1/85 are assumed to be TL 19/kWh on the bulk level, and TL 27/kWh on the
retail level, resulting in an average tariff for HV and LV combined of about
TL 23/kWh. Adjustment of tariffs to reflect any real changes in fuel prices
has not been included in the forecasts, but would be assumed to occur
automatically.
5.       The forecast income statements do not reflect the value-added tax
of 10% which was introduced effective January 1, 1985. While TEK's
customers will pay 10 more for electricity, the VAT is expected to have nG
net financial impact on TEK, as TEK will transfer to the Government the net
of value added taxes collected and paid. Similarly, the 3.5% charge
collected by TEK on behalf of Turkish Radio and Television starting March 1,
1985 has been omitted from the forecasts.
6.       Fuel expenses were projected by applying the expected price paid by
TEK for fuel to the average specific consumption rates and the number of
kilowatt hours to be generated by thermal plants with each type of fuel as
shown below.
Early 1985 Fuel Prices
'TL/ton)           $/ton
Coal                          36,000            80
Lignite                        6,000            13
Diesel                       175,000          389
Fuel-Oil                     107,000          238
Natural Gas (per '000 m3)    55,000            122
Generation Plan (GWh)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Hydro                          12,262  13,766  17,193  20,503  22,425  23,653
Thermal - Coal                    562     562      135     458     551      708
- Lignite              10,551  13,255  16,751  20,309  22,987  24,470
- Gas Oil                 131     131     131      131     131     131
- Fuel Oil             4,358   4,358   4,358   4,358   4,358   4,358
- Natural Gas               0   1,050   2,599   3,449   3,600   3,600
Total Thermal              15,602  19,356  23,974  28,705  31,627  33,267
Total Gross Generation    27,864  33,122  41,167  49,208  54,052  56,920



- 107 -
ANNEX 5.8
page 3 of 4
7.      The cost of imported power was estimated by applying the early 1985
rate of US$.04/kWh, increasing with domestic inflation, to annual imports
from Bulgaria and the USSR of 2,500 GC1h.
8.      Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated at 2.5% for hydro plants,
4.0% for thermal plants, and 3.11% for transmission lines and related
assets. The overall average for TEK is 3.52.
9.      Other expenses, including material other than fuel, wages and
salaries and miscellaneous expenses, are assumed to increase at the same
rate as unit sales growth, plus the local inflation rate. As a result of
the Power System Operations Assistance Project, a reduction in TEK's
maintenance and operating costs is expected, resulting in financial savings;
however, these benefits would not be apparent until about 1990-91.
10.     Income taxes are 40Z of the net income of previous year, after
deducting all operating expenses and net interest expense.
11.     TEX's payments to the PPF in conjunction with the Keban
revenue-sharing certificates are included as an operating expense, based on
annual generation of the Keban Hydro Plant of 5647 GWh multiplied by a price
per kWh which is 60% of the average wholesale electricity tariff.  TEK's
present obligations to make these payments cease in 1989, but it is likely
that TEK will continue these payments afterward for additional revenue
sharing certificates.
Balance Sheet
12.    Additions to work in progress and to fixed assets in service are
made at current prices. Assets in service have not been revalued in the
forecast, because of lack of adequate information on age and composition of
assets. However, asset revaluation, and the corresponding additions to the
revaluation reserve, which were included in TEK's past audited financial
statements are reflected.
13.     Transfers from DSI:  Hydroelectric projects, once completed by DSI,
are transferred to TEK through a governmenr equity contribution and added
directly to fixed assets in service. (The Bank requested under Loan 1844-TU
that the Government consider a change in accounting procedures, such that
the asset value of completed hydroelectric power plants transferred from DSI
to TEK would be offset by a combination of both equity and the related
debt. This change in procedures has not yet occurred, however, and the
forecasts assume the current practices will continue.) The forecast assumes
transfers of DSI assets valued as follows (in billions of TL):
1985      1986      1987      1988       1989
20        81        161        178       92



- 108 -
ANNEX 5.8
page 4 of 4
14.      The interest rate on new borrowings is estimated at 30% for local
credits and 9Z for foreign credits, with repayment periods of 3 and 8 years,
respectively.
15.      Outstanding foreign debt and related debt service have been
restated in Line with the expected devaluation of the Turkish Lira. The
counterpart of the adjustment to long-term debt has been added to
work-in-progress.
Internal Cash Generation
16.      The calculation of internal cash generation is shown in Annex 5.6:
(a) Treatment of Taxes
Income taxes payable by TEK out of its profits are added back as
part of sector iuternal cash generation, according to the definitions
agreed in 1980. Two other types of taxes or charges introduced in early
1985 - the value added tax (VAT) and the Turkish Radio and Television
(TRT) charge - have not been included in the calculation of internal
cash generation. The Bank's understanding is that both will be passed
through without having a direct financial impact on TEK. In the case of
the TRT charge, these funds are specifically earmarked for use outside
the power subsector. In the case of the VAT, information is not yet
available to estimate the net difference between the amount of VAT
collected by TEK from its customers and the amount paid by TEK on its
purchases.
(b) Treatment of Debt Service
For purposes of estimation of subsector internal cash generation,
the debt service associated with DSI's investments in hydroelectric
plants has been shown as an indicative amount only. (Because these
borrowings for DSI projects are aggregated with other public borrowing,
and many DSI projects are multi-purpose, it has been difficult to
isolate the amounts related to DSI energy investments only.)
April 10, 1985



ANME 6.1
- 109 -                   Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysis
I. Return on the Investment Program
1.       The economic analysis of the project is set out in Attachment 1 of
this annex and was carried out on the basis that the project forms an integral
part of TEK/DSI's 1985-1990 expansion program. The program is estimated to
have an economic rate of return of 11.23%, compared to an opportunity cost of
capital of 12Z.
Benefits
2.       Incremental revenues plus net fuel savings derived from investment in
improved efficiency of thermal plants were taken as the benefits of the
program. Electricity tariffs were assumed to increase at regular intervals to
ensure an adequate level of self-financing for the power subsector, reflecting
the Government's commitment to reduce public expenditures. The average
revenue (in 1985 prices) for sales at the bulk supply and retail levels would
be as follows:                                      -
(TL/kWl)           1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990 & Onwards
Bulk supply       26.87   28.61   30.40   32.22   32.97          33.69
Distribution      34.90   34.90   34.90   34.90   34.90          34.90
Net fuel savings were calculated on the basis that investment in improved
efficiency of existing thermal plants (Tuncbilek A and B, Anbarli, Seyitozer,
Soma B and Yatagan) would increase their average efficiency by one percentage
point as a minimum and result in an annual net fuel savings of TL 5.9 billion
starting in 1991. Given the fact that these plants would be retired at
different dates, net fuel savings would progressively diminish over the entire
30-year period considered for the life of the entire program.
Capital and Operating Costs
3.       The capital costs of TEK/DSI's expansion program were taken from the
adjusted 1985-1990 investment program presented in Chapter II (Annex 2.2) and
updated to January 1985 prices. Operation and maintenance costs were
estimated at 1% of cumulative capital costs for generation and transmission,
and at 2Z for distribution.



ANNEX 6.1
- 110 -                      Page 2 of 3
Fuel Costs
4.       The incremental generation from thermal plants was taken from the
projected balance of energy and capacity for TEK (Annex 2.1). The cost of
fuel was estimated on the basis of the following assumptions-.
(a) specific consumption (tonf/GWh).
- lignite-fired steam plants. 1 ,450 (for a lignite with an average
calorific value of 1,725 kcal/kg);
- coal-fired steam plants. 700 (for a coal with an average
calorific value of 4,200 kcal/kg);
- gas-fired coubustion turbines. 302;
- gas-fired conbined cycle plants: 226.
(b) Economic cost of fuels (US$/ton)-.
- lignite: 20 (equal to the weighted average long-run marginal cost
of lignite in Turkey);
- coal: 60 (equal to the estimated CIF price of imported coal);
- natural gas. 180 (equal to 90% of the border price of fuel oil).
5.      All benefits and costs were expressed in January 1985 prices, with an
exchange rate of TL450/US3. The life of the program was taken at 30 years.
II. Return on the Thermal Generation Component
6.      An adjusted internal financial rate of return was calculated for the
thermal generation component of the project, taking into account the
investment costs of the component and the potential benefits expected from
it. The return on this component was estimated at 106%, reflecting the fact
that only limited investments are necessary to produce substantial
improvements in the operation of the thermal plants under consideration.
7.       Capital costs for the component were taken from the project cost
table, including the component's share in specialized training overseas. No
allowance for downtime cost was provided since it was considered that any
mdification of the plants' equipment could be performed during regular
maintenance.
8.       Benefits were considered to apply to six existing thermal plants
(Tuncbilek A and B, Seyitomer, Soma B and Yatagan, all lignite-fired, and
oil/gas-fired Anbarli), starting in 1991. The analysis took the conservative



ANNEX 6.1
- lll -                       Page 3 of 3
view that any improvement brought to these plants would not result in an
extension of their respective life. Benefits were expected to be derived from
two improvements: (a) an increase of one percentage point in their average
net efficiency; and (b) an increase in their availability to an annual average
of 6,000 hours for lignite-fired stations and 7,000 hours for Arnbarli. These
improvements would result in net fuel savings to the system and in incremental
generation, diminishing progressively over the life of the project component
as plants would be gradually retired.
9.       The economic cost of fuels was estimated at USS20/ton for lignite
(with an average calorific value of 1,725 kcal/kg) equal to the weighted
average long-run marginal cost of lignite in Turkey, and to USS200/ton for
fuel oil (with a calorific value of 9,630 kcal/kg) equal to the border price
of fuel oil.
10.      Incremental sales resulting from incremental generation were valued
using projected tariffs for 1991, as follows;.
-  bulk supply-.      TL 27.79/kt
-  retail sales:      TL 31.9/kWh
Detailed results of the calculation are presented in Attachment 2 of this
Annex.
March 1985



- 112 -                                                              Ai  6.1
MM
atLLI~ at W                                                                      1
1. - 1u           -    Pm_r
owft                                                     Cont _   ooe                cI n lc
89    13       flul   1ow                     "deIs' GiC-..t-iM CCaats- Feel  7btal    lbt
VW  kim     hiS      UWfr  Umait GWAtIMi CrCa.i0R DbIM               MIL 0 matin Tt_miu   Dlimtib n Cot   coeo              KfLeuf
35        0  40,279    0.0  49,279  40,        301,563    9513    49,000   4,415         1,03      1.963   233400  723.46    (679,19)
36      S, 15,93B    0.0  D,IS6  555566    R1o,jo         131750   59.091  la,04        2,41       2,169   85,637  974,037   (793,2)
357 17,973 mZ93        O      ,N0     ,1U5    IV.=        W  3   ,70 6773  15,15         3,693     3,606  151,996 1.0*,35   (62,20)
3O1  20D   32,#1   0.0 611,455  S5041    M2,165          31,250    46.,0  3D,59         5,116     5.41   217,58 1,15,9   (513,934)
-   32,65.1 3,111   O  7A,7M  4W,553    31,76            225,000   51.,U5  26,795      6,972      7.669  299,564 1,22,430   (469,631)
3I0 410,3 452.932      O0 900,33   4,066    3605          237,315    53,965  29,5        ,932     3,003  277.331 1,302,3.3  (39906)
391 41M,4    ,32   5,J3.1 109,737        0         0           0        0  29,65        8,932     D,063  277,331  325,"1    51,236
1        45D 4M 2,93Z 5,3.1 W9,=         0         0           a        0  29.85        6,931Z    3,043  27,331  325,191    55,236
31  450,402 43,932 S,893.1 90,227        0         0           0        0  29,65        6,92      3,043  277,31  325,"91    55236
39  450,4  43,932   5,J3.1  90,77        0         0           0        0  29,485       8,932     3,003  27,331  325,991    55,26
395 450,AM  43,932  S,3.1 909,22         0         0           0        0  29,65        5,932    3D.03  277,331  325,91    5,236
396 450,43 4i,932  5,83.1 909,27         a         0           0        0  29,655       8,932    3DA3  277,331  325.991    583,36
37 4S,41  4Z,932 5,7ZA 900.0M            0         0           0        0  29,5         8.932     D,063  277,Ml 335,991    583,600
IM9  4D,40  432932 5,736A  9,070         0         0           0        0  29,15        8.932     106063  27M,331  325,991   553.,10
39  4D043 432,932 5,736.*  90,070        0         0           0        0  29,5         8,932     3,063  277,331  325,991    55ao
230 45060  4,2.932 5,736A  9,00          0          0          0        0  2O,15         5,932    3,03  277M,331  325.991   583,01
31101    ,402 343Z,D   3,367A 490,701    0          0          0        0  29,615        8.932    D,063  277,31  325,99      55,71U
3m02 40AOZ 652,932 3,37  906,701         0          0          0        o  29.55         8,S3Z    D,03  2,31  325,991    507U
203 4A,43 43,93Z 3,367.A 90,70          0          0          0        0  29,5          5,932     D,063   M,331  325."1    58071U
:OD  4Up 43Z,93Z 3,67  906,701           0          0          0        0  29,5          8.932    3,063  277,331  325.991    50,7U
200 45,4A  432,932 3,367A  906.701       0          0          0        o  29,655        5,932     D,063  277,331  325,991    0,7U
321 450,402 4,932 2,2V7.2 905,U1         0          0          0        0  29,655        8,932    3,063  277,3l  325,991   579,5!0
2007 430,40  43,932Z 2,27.2 905,S1       0          0          0        0  29,"m         6,93     D,S3  277,331  325,"1    579590
m0  40,4  43.932 2,7,2  l0,551          la          0          0        0  2965          S,932      ,063  277M31  325.991    579,0
209 40,43 4S,93Z 2,20.2 9,551            0          0          0        0  29,685 5,932           3.03  27,M31  325,91    579,5
330  41D04  432,932 2,:17,2 905511       0          0          0        0  29,655        8,932     D,063  277,331  325,991   579,59
311  450,402 45,93Z 1,S66.  90D,61       0          0          a        0  29,655       5.932      ,063  27731  325,991    578,09
3D2 450U,4   43,932 1,5Y6A O.0,10        0          0          0        0 o".615         5,93Z    3,063  277M,331  325.991    576J,9
3U13  MA,4  4S2,932 1,56.0 9K            0          0          a        0  29O,15       8,932     3.063  277.331  325,991    5758.19
3DU  450,   452,93  1,566.01 93O1        0          0          0        0  29,615       8,932     3,063  m2331  325,991   575,19
m .N   of  z tnm (X):   U1 3
Dm7t5, 935-



ANEXC 6.1
- 113 -                                      XEtsiimet 2
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysis
(million of T1)
II. Thenmal Generation Ccnpcnent
~ - EEE1TS      -
Project  Tuxbilek TurcbiLek Axtbarli Seyitoier   Soa B    Yatagan    Total        Net
Yea      Cost      A          B                                             Benefits   Benefits
1985        0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
1986      297      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    -297.0
1987      890      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    -890.0
1988    1,780      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   -1780.0
1989    2,076      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   -2076.0
1990      889      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0     889.0
1991            2719.9   5447.2   11063.9   6760.6      876.9      669.1   27537.5   27537.5
1992            2719.9   5447.2   11063.9  6760.6       876.9      669.1   27537.5   27537.5
1993            2719.9   5447.2   11063.9   6760.6      876.9      669.1   27537.5   27537.5
1994.           2719.9   5447.2   11063.9   6760.6      876.9      669.1   27537.5   27537.5
1995            2719.9   5447.2   11063.9   676D.6      876.9      669.1   27537.5   27537.5
1996            2719.9   5447.2   11063.9   6760.6      876.9      669.1   27537.5   27537.5
1997               0.0    5447.2   11063.9   6760.6     876.9      669.1   24817.6   24817.6
1998               0.0    5447.2   11063.9  6760.6      876.9      669.1   24817.6   24817.6
1999               0.0    5447.2  llO3.9   6760.6       876.9      669.1   24817.6   24817.6
2000               0.0    5447.2   11063.9  6760.6      876.9      669.1   24817.6   24817.6
2001               0.0    5447.2       0.0   6760.6     876.9      669.1   13753.8    13753.8
2002               0.0    5447.2       0.0   6760.6     876.9      669.1   13753.8   13753.8
2003               0.0    5447.2       0.0   6760.6     876.9      669.1   13753.8   13753.8
2004               0.0    5447.2       0.0   6760.6     876.9      669.1   13753.8   13753.8
2005               0.0    5447.2       0.0   6760.6     876.9      669.1   13753.8   13753.8
2006               0.0    5447.2       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    6993.2    6993.2
2007               0.0    5447.2       0.0      0.0     876.9      6WAh1     6993.2    6993.2
2008               0.0    5447.2       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    6993.2    6993.2
2009               0.0    5447.2       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    6993.2      6 i8.2
2D10               0.0    5447.2       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    6993.2    6993.2
2011               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    1546.0    1546.0
2012               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    1546.0    1546.0
2013               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    1546.0    1546.0
2014               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0     876.9      669.1    1546.0    1546.0
Rate of return (Z):          106.2
Mac 1985



ANNEX 7.1
- 114 -                          Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
POWER SYSTEM OPERATIDNS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Characteristic Data of TEK's Hydroelectric Power Plants
2. Summary of Technical Characteristics of TEK's Major Steam Power Stations
3. Summary of TEK's Major Steam Pover Stations Operating Performance for
1982 and 1983
4. Detailed Statistics on the Operation of TEK's Thermal Power Stations for
the 1980-1984 Period
5. Development of Transformer Capacity in the Transmission Grids (380, 154,
66 and 35W voltage levels) from 1980 to 1984
6.  Development of Transmission Lines (km) at the 380, 154, 66 and 35 W
voltage levels from 1980 to 1984
7. organization of the Operations Area of TEK with Statistics of Operating
and Maintenance Personnel and Maintenance Crews
8. Annual Statistical Details of Planned and Unplanned Outages in the
1980-84 Period (Nunber and Outage Length) in Generation (Hydro and
Thermal), Transmission and Distribution, and Statistics of Apparatus in
Traasmission Substations and in Distribution
9. Detailed List of Materials and Equipment to be Procured for the Project
(Quantities and Unit Costs) Per Operational Area and Per Contract Package
10. Detailed List of Proposed Capacitor Installations (Capacities and
Substation Locations)
11. Bulk Salas of Energy in 1983 by TEK to Distribution Enterprises (Active
and Reactive Energy, and Peak Demand)
12. Bulk Sales of Energy in 1983 and 1984 by IEK to Distribution Enterprises
and Retail Sales by Each Enterprise
13. Gross and Net Generation in 1984 by TEt's Thermal Power Stations
14. Electricity Statistics for Turkey - Year 1983 (in Turkish)
15. Summary of Unplanned Outages in TEK's Transmission Lines and Substations
for the 1980-84 Period (on a yearly basis)



ANNEX 7.1
- 115 -                           Page 2 of 2
16. Summary of Unplanned Outages in TEK's Hydroelectric Power Plants for the
1980-84 Period (on a yearly basis)
17. Agreement for Consultancy Services between ELTEM-TEK and Fichtner
(Germany) for the Feasibility Study of Converting the Anbarli Power
Plant to Gas-firing
18. Summary of Design Efficiencies and Range of Coal/Lignite Calorific Value
of TEK Major Steam Plants.
19. Study on Thermal Power Plants Malfunctions - Department of Thermal Power
Plants Operation - TEK
20. Instructions and Code for Reporting Outages in Thermal Power Plants -
TEK (in Turkish)
21. Definitions in Reporting Performance of Steam Power Plants - TEK (in
Turkish)
22. Installation des Telecommandes Centralisees - Mission EdF-TEK
23. Couts des Pertes dans le Reseau - Mission EdF-TEK
24. Revue of Maintenance Activity - Bonneville Power Administration
25. Rapport d'Activite 1982 - Service du Transport - Electricite dz France
27. Risque de Defaillance et Decision D'Investissement Mission EdF-TEK
28. Average Loading of Primary Feeders and Distribution Transformers in
Izuir and Adapazari - Mission EdF-TEK
29. Basis for the Preparation of a Master Plan for Distribution in Izmir -
Mission EdF-TEK
30. Working Papers for Project Cost
31. Generation by Fuel Type - TEK 1984 and Program for 1985
32. Les Pertes d'Energie dans les Rdseaux Urbains de Distribution en Turquie
- Mission EdF - TEK
Note.    Investment, Financial, and Legal documents are available in TEK
Transmission IV Project File.



BULCARIA _v',< -lt                                                    
4.^   t    .                     s&^~~~~~~BLCK  __        .SEA                     .                       
GREECE iT-.,;.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in u~
22.                1.~~~~~~~~~~. .A
VJ0. A. B.                                                                                          A. . -  XX
i N                                                TEK POWER SYSTEM OPERATIONS A ND MAINTENANCE REGIONS
FOR GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
A,                                                                                      SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                 rMliMMMUSTATaOS
MEDITERRANEAN        SEA                 v                                                              -                      h
C Y R   U S  _ 
go '* -ttttZt  S@  =   ESANON)                       P__
__   7r                      ,  t                                 J  F S                               v                                  w  1~~~~~~e  3



BUGAIA GAZIJr
aC  DISTRICTT                                                                                                                    u   \.-  SCEDTI  -S s a
c_-n- <                                       6t41'*  < -;; ILGAZ 0-1  MIRA. DISTRICT                                       r 
; 1 ~~~~~~~g     A   C|
,''  #TEK POWER SYSTERI  OPERATIONS ASSISTANCET PB,ECT
/iR UK                                            DISTRICTDISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISES
DiSTRICT                                              I    DIS T                                    I TSYRIA  ARAR REPUBLIC  I
*               MEOIrERRA NEAN         SEA                                                                                                                            N -  . _
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - )~d * cw_c mi 7,'b  * '                                          .W WW_ - 7%lS
-C Y  q U S                                                                              * .7S,~_
,4__.Z_ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~     ~     ~      -                                                                _____ ,.g Sd_,
_   " _               "         ea       77n        w7         EE3~~~~~        ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~ANON J  - hs
,'__-   .   W                           ."4                                                                                                                   r   Sf-2



