                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                 ReportNo: 41931-HA




                                  PROJECTPAPER

                                         ONA

                PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(GRANT)

                     INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.7 MILLION
                          (US$7.4 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                        FOR AN

      EMERGENCY RECOVERYAND DISASTERMANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                    January 16,2008




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe
performanceoftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective January, 8 2008)

                           Currency Unit = Haitian Gourdes
                                    U S 1 = GDES36.26
                                 GDES 1 = US$0.0276

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               October 1    - September30


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

IAF       I Additional Financing:                                                   1
 CDD        Community Driven Development
 CRS        Catholic Relief Services
 CNGDR     National Committee for Disaster Risk Management (Comite' Nationale de
            Gestion des Risques et De'sastres)
            Consultant Qualification
.CQ
 CCPC       Community Civil ProtectionCommittee (Comite' Communal de Protection
            Civile)
 CDPC       DepartmentalCivil ProtectionCommittee (Comite' De'partementale de
           Protection Civile)
 DPC        Directorat of Civile Protection (Direction de la Protection Civile)
 EA         Environmental Assessment
 EMP        Environmental MananementPlan
 EOC        EmergencyOperations Center
 EU         EuropeanUnion
 FMR        FinancialManagementReport
 GOH        Government of Haiti
 ICB        International Competitive Bidding
 IDA        International DeveloDment Association
 IDB        Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
 MINUSTAH UnitedNations Mission for the Stabilization of Haiti
 NCB       National Competitive Bidding
 OCHA       UNOffice for the Coordination ofHumanitarianAffairs
 PADF       Pan-American Development Foundation
 PCU        Project Coordination Unit
 PL-480     BureauProgrammed'Alimentation PL-480 Titre I11
 PNGRD     National Disaster RiskManagementPlan (Plan National de Gestion des
           Risaues et des De'sastres)
 PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 QCBS       Quality Cost Based Selection
 SA         Special Account

                                                                          FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                       Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                                     Country Director:     Yvonne Tsikata
                                      Sector Director:     Laura Tuck
                                      Sector Manager:      Anna Wellenstein (Acting)
                                    Task Team Leader:      Catherine Tovey



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                REPUBLIC OF HAITI

             EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT
                                                   PROJECT PAPER



                                                     Table of Contents


I.Introduction..................................................................................................................... 1


I1
 .Backgroundand      Rationalefor Additional Financing.....................................................                         1

I11. ProposedChanges..........................................................................................................      4


IV .Consistencywith     CAS or CPS......................................................................................            5

V Appraisal of Restructuredor Scaled-upProject............................................................
  .                                                                                                                                 5

VI.ExpectedOutcomes         .....................................................................................................   14

VI1.Benefits and RisksBenefits             .......................................................................................  17

VI11.FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing................................                                     18

Annex 1: DisbursementAllocations ofAdditional Financingand Reallocation.............18

Annex 2: Additional FinancingProcurementPlan..........................................................                             -20

Annex 3: ProcurementThresholds...................................................................................                  21

Annex 4: FinancialManagementRisks............................................................................                      22

Annex 5: Arrangementsfor ResultsMonitoring..............................................................                           23

Annex 6: Project ProcessingSchedule and Team Composition.......................................                                    26


                            PROJECTPAPERDATA        SHEET



                                             Sector Director: Laura Tuck

                                             EnvironmentalCategory:B

Borrower:The Republic ofHaiti
Responsibleagency:The Ministry ofthe Interior and Collective Territories         -
Revisedestimateddisbursements(BankFY/US$m)
FY            2008           2009            2010          2011
Annual        1.5            4.0             1.5           0.4
Cumulative    1.5            5.5             7.0           7.4
Current closingdate: December31,2008



                                                                        oYes XNo


Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes:
Not applicable
Does the scaled-upor restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpolicies?
No
                               For Additional Financing
[ 3 Loan  [ 3 Credit  [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.): 7.4 million
       Proposedterms: 100%IDA Grant
                               FinancingPlan(US$m.)
                 Source                         Local         Foreign       Total
Borrower                                         0.0            0.0         0.0
IBRD/IDA                                         7.4            0.0         7.4
Others                                           0.0            0.0         0.0
Total                                            7.4            0.0         7.4


I.Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
    additional grant in an amount o f US$7.4 million equivalent (SDR 4.7 million) to the
    Republic o f Haiti for the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
    (P090159) H-1430-HA.

2. The proposed additional grant to the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
    Project's (ERDMP) would scale up investmentsin Component I: Reconstruction and
    Risk Reduction in Areas Affected and Component 3: Local Risk Management as part
    o f the World Bank's disaster recovery assistance to the Republic o f Haiti in the
    aftermath o f Tropical Storm (TS) Noel, which over the period o f October 28 - 30,
    2007 caused severe flooding resulting in significant loss o f life and damage to the
    country's public and private infrastructure. Additional financing (AF) would support
    (i) worksconsistingmainlyofrehabilitationofaffecteddrainageandirrigation
        small
    systems, schools, health clinics and community centers, and (ii)the expansion o f the
    local risk management activities to ensure full coverage within the 5 Departments
    where the project is engaged, including the creation and implementation o f additional
    training modules and the financing o f additional local risk mitigation micro-projects
    for each operational Communal Civil Protection Committee.

3. The AF would not entail any change to the ERDMP development objectives. The
    operational manual will be updated to reflect current circumstances, building on
    lessons learned from successful implementation o f the ERDMP to date.

4. The expected outcomes from the investments through AF would be consistent with
    those o f the ERDMP and would include: (i)the successful rehabilitation o f the
    selected local public infrastructure benefitingfrom the small works activities, (ii)the
    activation and training o f an additional 19 Communal Civil Protection Committees
    (CCPC), (iii)the execution o f an additional 73 local risk reduction projects by the
    newly formed and existing CCPC.


11. Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Project Background

5. The ERDMP was prepared in response to the Government of Haiti's (GoH) request
    for post Tropical Storm Jeanne (2004) disaster recovery assistance. The project was
    prepared within the context o f the environmental pillar o f the Interim Cooperation
    Framework, and was financed through an IDA Grant o f US$12 million. The
    Development Grant Agreement (H-1430-HA) was signed on January 6, 2005 and the
    project became effective on June 1, 2005. The closing date i s scheduled for December
    31,2008.




                                             1

6. The project development objective o f the ERDMP, as stated in the Development
   Grant Agreement is to support the GoH in the (i)           rehabilitation o f areas affected by
   recent adverse natural events, (ii)   strengtheningo f the country's capacity to manage
   natural disaster risks and to better respond to emergencies resulting from adverse
   natural events; and (iii)reduction o f the vulnerability o f communities through risk
   mitigation activities.

Project Status

7. Despite the difficult political and security context in which the project is being
   implemented, the ERDMP continues to meet it development objectives, with most
   performance indicators on target. The ISR ratings, including those for implementation
   progress (IP) and development objectives (DOs) have been consistently satisfactory
   over the past 12 months. The ERDMP has disbursed US$7,255,633.10 with a total
   commitment of US$8,630,000 representing 60.5% and 72% respectively o f the
   original Grant amounts. To date, nine rehabilitation subprojects (global value o f
   US$1.95 million) have beencontracted under Component 1, five o f which have been
   completed. Fifty-four CCPC have been created, training and equipped and each o f
   these CCPC have, or are in the process of, executing local risk mitigation micro
   project (US$25,000 to US$50,000/each). The CCPC are supported by Departmental
   Civil Protection Committees (DCPC) that have benefited from financing under
   Component 2: Institutional Strengthening through the construction and equipping o f
   Departmental Emergency Operation Centers (EOC) and administrative and technical
   training. The Directorate of Civil Protection (DPC), the National System for Disaster
   and Risk Management's (SNGRD) technical body i s better able to coordinate the
   system and its components (of which the DCPC and CCPC play an integral role) vis-
   a-vis their improved communication, administration and technical capabilities, as
   financed by the ERDMP.

8. The ERDMP i s in full compliance with the Grant Agreement covenants and the
   fiduciary management system i s satisfactory and there are no pending audit reports.
   There are no unresolved environmental, social or other safeguard problems.

Rationalefor additionalfinancing

9. The GoH officially requested the World Bank for financial support following the
   damages caused by TS Noel which hit Haiti on October 28-30, 2007. The tropical
   storm resulted in flash floods and mudslides which caused a reported 66 deaths and
   over 15,000 destroyed or damaged houses and widespread damage to the country's
   public and private infrastructure' (see paragraph 20). In response to this appeal, the
   World Bank regional management provided US$7.4 million from FY-08 IDA
   allocations on a priority basis for Post-TS Noel disaster recovery assistance.


`SNGRD   (2007) Passage de la Tempite Tropicale Noel sur la Rkpublique d'Hai`ti du 28 au 30 Octobre,
2007 -Bilan et Perspectives.



                                                2

10. The humanitarianresponse was well coordinated by the GoH and OCHA. Most of the
    immediate relief needs have been met. The UN (MINUSTAH, UNICEF, WHO etc),
    some donors, and many NGOs provided food relief; health care; emergency water
    and sanitation; child protection and shelter, The GoH disbursed US$3 million o f its
    own funds to support the initial response, and i s seeking to earmark a further
    US$3 million for reliefhehabilitation. Although a number o f donors (UNDP, IDB and
    EU) are also working closely with the World Bank to support to the National Strategy
    for Disaster and Risk Management, to date no donors are explicitly engaged inpost-
   Noel mediumterm re-habilitation activities.

11. Based on the current country portfolio, the AF through the ERDMP provides a more
    viable option for disbursing disaster recovery funds rapidly, effectively and
    sustainably than through project restructuring or the design o f an Emergency
    Recovery Grant (ERG). As per its original design, the ERDMP has well-performing
    institutional mechanisms in place to finance investments in rehabilitation works o f
    local public infrastructure damaged by adverse natural events and the creation,
    training and equipping o f local and communal civil protection committees, who in
    turn, would identify, prepare and execute local risk mitigation micro-projects. The
    two components through which these activities are financed are Component 1:
    Reconstruction and Risk Reduction in Areas Recently Affected                by Floods
    (USS3.5 million) and Component 3: Local Risk Management (USS3.9 million). The
    components could readily be scaled-up in the affected areas where the ERDMP i s
    already operating, thereby supporting the disaster recovery operation within the
    overall framework o f the GOH's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and
    SNGRD.

12. Inlight of the preliminary post-TS Noel GoH damage assessments which highlighted
    the damages to the country's public infrastructure and the need to increase the
    resilience o f communities to future events, the AF will support: (i) rehabilitation
                                                                          the
    o f drainage and irrigation systems, schools, health clinics and community centers; (ii)
    the expansion o f the current community driven local risk management activities to
    cover ever community inthe Departments where the ERDMP i s currently active; and
    (iii) increaseinthescopeof thelocalriskmitigationprojects.
         an

13. Since the activities and objectives o f the AF to the ERDMP are in line with the
    original project, all the safeguard issues of the original ERDMP also apply in this
    case. Therefore the AF, like its original ERDMP, i s not expected to trigger any major
    environmental impacts due to the nature of the interventions which consist mainly o f
    the rehabilitation of damaged public infrastructure and the execution of small local
    risk mitigation activities. Accordingly, given that works deal with the rehabilitationof
    existing infrastructure and local risk mitigation, and given that the projects are small
    (less that US$250,000) and will not involve land acquisition or resettlement, the
    project has been placed under environmental category "B" in accordance with OP
    4.01 which requires the preparation o f an Environmental ManagementPlan. This plan
    has been prepared by the GoH and cleared by the Bank for the original ERMDP.



                                              3

    Copies have been made available in the Infoshop. An updated Environmental
   Management Plan (EMP) will be incorporated into the updated Operational Manual
   prior to AF project effectiveness.


111. ProposedChanges

14. The proposed AF would support the original objectives o f the ERDMP. The AF will
    increase the scope o f the project, by scaling up the activities undertaken under
    Component 1: Reconstruction and Risk Reduction in Areas Recently Affected by
    Floods and Component 3: Local Risk Management. Inaddition, existing project funds
    will be re-allocated2 to Component 2: Institutional Strengthening to reinforce the
    institutional linkages and reposition existing activities to better respond to the revised
    operationalization strategy for the National Plan for Disaster and Risk Management
    (PNGRD).

15. The AF will be implementedusing the same institutional framework, procurement,
    and disbursement arrangements currently employed since these systems are
    performing well, remain appropriate, and have the capacity to absorb the additional
    funds. Social and environmental issues will be dealt with as inthe original project, in
    accordance with the World Bank's guidelines and in compliance with safeguard
    requirements.

16. The project's original closing date is December 31, 2008. A two year project
    extension is proposed, bringing the closing date to December 31, 2010. Although
    most activities are expected to be executed within 18 months, additional time will
    help consolidate the sustainability o f ERDMP investments - particularly the
    institutional strengthening o f the DPC and the Permanent Secretariat for Disaster and
    Risk Reduction(SPGRD) by building up the vertical linkages between the DPC, the
    Departments and the local emergency committees. The two year extension being
    sought i s also consistent with the project team experience to date in implementing
    activities ina challenging operating environment.




 This reallocation process is separatefrom this proposed additional financing, but will be carried out in
 parallel.



                                                    4

Detailed Project Costs and Deviations

17. Below i s a breakdown o f the original cost estimates along with the new cost estimates
    o f the scaled-up project with AF, including reallocation.

                          Table 1: DetailedProjectCosts (in millions)




' Inorder to cover the additional audit cost associated with the project extension, funds will be reallocated
from the original project. This reallocation process is separate from this proposed additional financing, but
will be carried out in parallel.



IV. Consistency with CAS or CPS

18. Economic recovery remains a central axis of the 2006 Haiti Interim Strategy Note, o f
     which the management o f natural disasters and risks remains a key component. The
     strategic importance o f disaster risk management for economic growth i s well
     recognized by the GoH, who featured risk management as one o f the major cross-
     cutting themes in their draft PRSP (November 2007). The project itself i s pro-poor
     since (i)  the poor are usually the most vulnerable to natural disasters; (ii) worst      areas
     affected by TS Noel are being targeted; and (iii) risk mitigation micro-projects
                                                                   local
     undertaken by local communities explicitly prioritize the poor's vulnerability
     reduction needs.


V. Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-upProject

19. In November 2007, a team visited Haiti on an emergency basis to undertake the
     identification and appraisal o f the proposed AF. The Team met extensively with the
    project coordinating units, the Ministry o f the Interior, the Ministry o f Planning, the
    DPC, the SPGRD, donors including the UNDP, EU, IDB, and sub-project executing
    agencies (CRS, OXFAM, and PADF) to (i)review the damage and needs
    assessments, (ii)evaluate the performance o f local and national disaster response
    systems for TS Noel and draw lessons; and (iii)identify and appraise the proposed
    scaling-up o f the project.



                                                      5

20. Identification, selection and implementation o f activities under component 1 and 3
   will be based on procedures identified in the updated ERDMP operational manual
   whose revisions will reflect the points raised inthe following paragraphs.

Needs assessment

21. Although TS Noel affected all 10 o f Haiti's Departments, the Departments o f the
    Ouest, Sud-Est, Sud, Grande-Anse, Nippes, Artibonite and North were most affected
    (including all 5 Departments where the project i s active). TS Noel particularly
    affected agricultural livelihoods: including losses o f 24,000 ha of crops and 10,000
    heads o f cattle; 18,000 m o f irrigation systems and drains; and 70,000 m o f new
    ravines formed in the watersheds. Information regarding other damaged public
    infrastructure, including schools, health clinics, and community centers are still being
    compiled.


        Table 2: Preliminaryestimateof loss of lifeand propertyby Department*




    (*) Departmentswhere ERDMP is active are highlighted
    Source: SNGRD (November 2007)

Lessons learned

22. CCPC helped play an important role in limiting loss of life from TS Noel in
    communities and departmentswhere it was active. The 5 DCPC and 54 CCPC,
    which were re-activated/created, trained and equippedthrough the project, played an
    integral role in disaster preparation following the storm alert (through the
    dissemination o f public warnings and the evacuation o f 14,000 people from
    households at high risk) as well as the immediate relief efforts, through the
    distribution o f humanitarian relief and the compilation o f damage and needs data. By
    all accounts, the CCPC performed well, helping minimize the number o f casualties.
    Risk mitigation activities implemented by these committees (including slope


                                                6

   stabilization, river bank reinforcement, drainage and structural hardening activities)
   also served to lessen the impact of TS Noel. On the other hand, in communes or
   Departments where these committees were absent, disaster preparedness was often
   weaker, and the number o f casualties higher. Damage assessments for Departmentsin
   the Northof Haiti -where CCPC have yet to be activated-are taking much longer.

23. Care must be taken to reduce the vulnerability of rehabilitatedworks to future
   floods. One of the "passage a gut?' (concrete river ford) inthe South-East Department
    financed under Component 1 was washed away during TS Noel, representing an
    investment loss of US$64,000, or 0.005% of the project's value. Due to the scope of
    works required to render bridge and roads resilient to floods, and the limited funds
    available under component 1, it has been decided that the AF will focus on
   rehabilitation o f small-scale local infrastructure. Other complimentary intervention
    are being considered for the financing o f larger-scale rehabilitation works, included
    the restructuring of the Haiti Transport and Territorial Development Project which
    would make US$8 million available to the GoH to finance bridge rehabilitation. The
    rehabilitation o f small-scale public infrastructure i s fundamental to strengthening the
    resilience o f local communities and civil protection systems.

Objective, description and cost

24. Component 1: Reconstructionand RiskReductionin Areas Recently affectedby
    TS Noel (Additional US$3.5 million equivalent). The additional funds allocated to
    this component would support the scaling up of rehabilitation works by targeting key
    local infrastructure affected by TS Noel. The DPC, with the assistance o f an Inter-
    Ministerial Task Force and the SPGRD i s inthe process of finalizing a multi-sectoral
    damage assessment and recovery plan to support the reconstruction o f areas affected
    by the recent floods associated with TS Noel. Based on the needs identified in this
    plan, the proposed allocation will support the rehabilitation o f small-scale public
    infrastructure including the rehabilitation o f drainage and irrigation systems, public
    buildings (including schools and health clinics) and community centers affected by
    the disaster. The selection criteria identified for the small-scale rehabilitation projects
    to be financed i s listed inparagraph 27 were agreedupon with the GoH.

25. Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for the DPC and the SPGRD
    (Reallocation US$0.5 million equivalent). No AF is being requested for this
    component; however US$0.5 million will be reallocated from the original project
    funds to cover the additional audit and operational costs associated with the project
    extension3. This component will be able to achieve the original PDO objective.
    Rather than scaling-up, a number o f activities in this component will be repositioned
    to better respond to the new operationalization strategy o f the PNGRD. The proposed
    project extension associated with the AF request will provide an opportunity to
    progressively deepen the institutional strengtheningo f both the DPC and the SPGRD



 This reallocation will be processed separately in parallelwith the proposedAdditional Financing.



                                                     7

    over-time. Particular attention will be paid to strengthening vertical institutional
    linkages from the local to the national level, betweenCCPC, DCPC and the DPC and
    SPGRD through the continued (i)strengthening o f management systems, (ii)
    institutional and technical support activities such as the creation o f a formal national
   training program and the continued execution o f national simulation exercises; and
    (iii) completionofanumberoftechnicalstudies.
         the

26. Component 3: Local Risk Management(Additional $3.9 millionequivalent). The
    additional funds allocated to this component would support the scaling up o f local
    risk management activities implementedby NGOs inkey areas affected by TS Noel.
    The proposed allocation will support the following: (i)Expansion o f local risk
    reduction activities to ensure full coverage within the 5 Departments where the
    ERDMP is active (Artibonite, Grand Anse, Nippes, Ouest and the Sud). This would
    extend coverage to at least 19 communes in the Ouest and Nippes Departments,
    which were all affected by TS Noel, but were not covered by the original component.
    (ii)Creation and implementation o f additional training modules for each operational
    CCPC; (iii)   Increase the impact o f these local risk management activities. Inresponse
   to consistently highcommunity demand, the level o f financing available to each local
    committee for the execution o f local risk mitigation micro-projects will be increased
    from US$25,000 to US$50,000, in order to better meet community demands and
    needs whilst remaining inline with the original PDO.

27. Investment selection criteria - Component 1.The short-listing o f rehabilitation
    activities to be financed under this component will be undertaken based on the
    following selection criteriajointly agreed with GoH:
            Projects must directly fit into, and support, GoH's National Strategy for
            Disaster and Risk Management;
        0   Projects must be located in priority areas affected by recent disasters (within
            the 5 Departments where the ERDMP is active);
        0   Projects are limitedto the rehabilitation o f small-scale public infrastructure (as
            per the original PDO);
            Rehabilitatedsmall-scale public infrastructure i s resilient to recurring floods;
        0    Institutional structures, whether they are community based organization or
             state associations, are in place to take over ownership and management o f
            rehabilitated infrastructure.

28. Eligibility Criteria: Component 1. The AF will focus on rehabilitation o f small-
    scale public infrastructure in areas and sectors in which the ERDMP i s currently
    active. Therefore it will not finance agricultural capitalization micro projects which
    require different decision making mechanisms and fall outside o f the scope of the
    ERDMP.

Institutional arrangements

29. The institutional arrangements under the original ERDMP will all remain in place.
    Overall project implementation will continue to be managed by the DPC's Project



                                               8

   Coordination Unit (PCU). A second PCU housed within the PL-480 Management
   Office (a national-level government office), will continue to implementcomponents 1
   and 3 on behalf o f the DPC who will be directly involved in the supervision and
   integration of CCPC within the national system. NGOs will continue to play an
   important role in implementing sub-projects at the community level (component 3).
   BothPCUs have beensatisfactorily implementingthe project to date.

30. Since the PL-480 will be in charge o f the implementation o f the two components
   benefiting from the AF, and considering that it i s also managing three other World
   Bank projects, staffing will need to be increased to maintain the overall capacity. In
   particular, an additional civil engineer and financial management specialist will be
   recruited.

Economic appraisal

31. Given the high levels o f poverty, weak public infrastructure, serious fiscal problems
   and degraded environment, adverse natural events o f small magnitude that occur on a
    frequent basis have a significant impact both the population's well-being and
   economic assets. The ERDMP rehabilitation and local risk mitigation micro-projects
    focus on activities with a high visibility and impact that utilize local labor and
    materials when available to provide for the quickest and most resilient economic and
    social recovery available within the financing limitations o f the project.

32. It i s important to note that all activities financed under components 1 and 3 are
    demand-driven activities, which by definition do not lend themselves to formal ex-
    ante analysis. Nevertheless, well established mechanisms exist to ensure that the best
    alternatives are chosen (low cost-high impact). Both sets o f activities benefit from
    established screening mechanisms which ensure that the most appropriate
    workdactivities are selected, based on their relative benefitdimpacts. The
    mechanisms are described inthe following paragraphs.

33. Component 1. Rehabilitation works (up to US$250,000) are first selected by the
    SPGRD based on criteria outlined in paragraph 27. The permanent secretariat i s an
    Inter-Ministerial committee composed o f representatives from the Ministries o f
   Interior, Public Works, Agriculture, Environment, Health, Education etc. This ensures
    that the identified and selected works are prioritized at the national level, permitting
    greater coordination and synergy within the GoH and in turn a greater return on
    investment interms o f sustainable infrastructure rehabilitation and contribution to the
    social and economic recovery o f the affected regions. The proposed works, including
   their technical specifications, are then reviewedby two engineers within the PL-480
   to ensure that the type o f activity and selected methodology are appropriate, before
   being submitted to the World Bank for no objection. It is important to note that the
    scope for analyzing design alternatives i s limited since the focus i s on rehabilitating
   existing infrastructure.




                                              9

34. Component 3. Local risk mitigation activities (up to US$50,000) are selected through
   an extensive screening process designed to ensure that the selected chosen activities
   help reduce extensive losses caused by adverse natural events by maximizing the
   number of beneficiaries and the value o f the social and economic assets protected.
   After committees have selected their project(s) they are reviewed in turn by the
   NGOs, the CDPC Technical Coordination Units, the PL-48O/PCU, the DPC and the
    World Bank. Moreover, community driven local risk management activities benefit
    from their demand drivenand community lednature, which permits the most efficient
    and effective allocation o f limited resources. A recent ex-post evaluation o f a
   Community Driven Development (CDD) project in the Brazilian state o f Paraiba,
    found that small scale infrastructure was 30-40% cheaper than publicly financed
    works o f similar type and quality4.

35. Finally, an interim ex-post evaluation o f the local risk mitigation activities executed
   to date under the ERDMP will be carried out under component 3 and will include a
    basic cost-benefit analysis, including communities' perceptions o f these benefits.This
    evaluation will help inform ongoing activities within this project, as well as
    contribute to the emerging body o f knowledge specific to community driven local
    disaster risk mitigation activities.

Technicalappraisal

36. The AF will exclusively support sub-projects. None o f these specific sub-projects
    have been identified at present. The mechanisms to identify the appropriate
    rehabilitation works and local risk mitigation micro-projects are described in the
    updated operational manual (which reflects recent lessons learned - see paragraph
    23). Each small-works project (up to US$250,000) identified by the SPGRD as part
    o f the rehabilitation o f public works component will be subject to a detailed technical
    feasibility assessment, with oversight from the PL-480 PCU civil engineers. Local
    risk management activities to be financed under the AF (up to US$50,000) as
    identifiedby local communities will also require a technical feasibility analysis (with
    oversight from both by the NGO operators and the PL-480 PCU civil engineers).

37. An additional civil engineer i s being recruited within the PL-480 to ensure there i s
    sufficient capacity within the team to deal with the additional workload.

Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements

38. FinancialManagementArrangements.AF will use the same financial management
    and disbursement frameworks. The last financial management supervision mission
    found the overall capacity satisfactory. Components 1 and 3 (to be increased with the
    AF) will be implementedby PL-480 whereas component 2 would remainunder DPC.



 World Bank, 2007, Implementation CompletionReport: Rural Poverty Alleviation Project, State of
     Paraiba, Brazil



                                              10

   A desk review of the financial management arrangements was carried out as part o f
   the preparation of the project, The conclusion o f the Financial Management
   Assessment (FMA) is that the overall project arrangements are adequate and satisfy
   the Bank's requirements under OPA3P10.02 to provide, with reasonable assurance,
    accurate and timely information on the status o f the execution o f the project. Details
   o f the financial management arrangements are describedbelow.

39. Financial Management Risk. The financial management risk at the country level is
    high as outlined in the last Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
   which i s summarized in Annex 3. Although Haiti has made significant progress over
    the last years, the public financial management system remains weak with significant
    challenges particularly with regards to budget execution and controls. However the
    overall public financial management weaknesses are not expected to impact the
    project because it will be implementedthrough a government agency that has strong
    fiduciary capacity. Thus, at the project level, the overall financial management risk
    would remain Moderate.

40. PL-480 Staffing. PL-480 i s managing two other World Bank projects and the
    financial management team i s reaching its absorption capacity. The team needs to be
    expanded in order to be in a better position to meet all the accounting and financial
   reporting requirements. PL-480 needs to recruit a new financial management
    specialist.

41. Operational Manual. The operational manual will be updatedto reflect changes that
   have taken place since project effectiveness particularly, the management o f the
    Imprestaccount, the local currency account and the environmental management plan.

42. Accounting and Reporting. The accounting system of PL-480 will be updated to
    reflect the increase o f the categories. Financial reporting will remain the same.
    Consolidated Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be prepared every six months
    and submitted to the Bank no latter than 45 days after the end o f the quarter. The
    FMRto be transmittedto the World Bank, following the effectiveness of the AF, will
    include the new categories. The FMR format and content will be updated by
    negotiations.

43 Auditing. Since the performance o f the existing auditor i s satisfactory, the contract
  a

    will be amended to cover the project extension associated with the AF. Annual audit
    reports would be transmitted to the World Bank no latter than four months after the
    end o f each fiscal year.

44. Reallocation between Categories: In order to cover the additional auditing costs
   associated with a 2 year extension, and to cover the higher than expected operating
   costs, funds will be reallocated from the original project5.For this purpose, Category
    I O - Unallocated,with a value o f US$500,000 will be reallocated as follows:


 This reallocationwill be processedseparately inparallelwith the proposedAdditional Financing,


                                                 11

                                   Initial      Amount to be       Total IDA    Increase
Disbursement Categories           Amount         Reallocated       Amount           O!O



Audit Fees(category 8)              0.05            0.05              0.1          100
OperatingCosts                                                       0.45          800
(category 9)                        0.05            0.40
Non-allocated
(category 10)                       0.45           (0.45)

45. Disbursement Arrangements. The flow o f funds would remain the same: two
    designated accounts A and B managed respectively by DPC and PL-480. Allocation
   o f the designated account B which i s US$600,000 would be increased to
   US$800,000. Annex 1presents the disbursementallocations o fthe AF.

ProcurementArrangements

46. General: Activities financed by the AF will use the same procurement arrangements
    and management framework as under the initial Grant. Procurement for the proposed
    activities will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Procurement and
   Consultant Guidelines dated May 2004, updated in October 2006, and the provisions
    stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the
    different procurement or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification,
    estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
    Borrower and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan.

47. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement: The bulk of
    procurementactivities will be carried out by the PL-480 Management Office which is
    already managing procurement under Components 1 and 3 o f ERDMP and the Bank's
    CDD project, as well as the community-based components o f other Bank projects and
    small grants. The Bank's assessment o f the capacity o f PL-480 to implement
    procurement actions for these projects is based on PL-480's satisfactory performance
    to date in implementingthese ongoing projects. While the procurement teams in PL-
    480 and DPC are well-equipped to execute procurement according to Bank
    Guidelines, the overall public procurement system in Haiti remains relatively weak.
    Despite recent reforms inthe legal and institutional framework for procurement, there
    i s still a lack o f skilled personnel with knowledge o f international norms, limited
    planning and follow-up capacity and insufficient use of standard documents and
    procedures. Consequently, the overall project risk for procurement remains high.

48. Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project will consist o f small
    scale rehabilitation works targeting key public infrastructure affected by TS Noel,
    including the rehabilitation o f drainage and irrigation systems, public buildings
    (including schools and clinics) and community centers. For these and other works


                                              12

    contracts identified during project implementation procurement will be carried out
    usingstandardbiddingdocuments(SBD) either issuedby or agreed with the Bank.

49. Selection of Consultants: The expanded local risk management activities under
    component 3 to be financed by the AF will be executed by NGOs. The NGOs that
    were competitively selected under ERDMP and have been performing well in their
    respective Departmentswill be contractedthrough single source selection to execute
    the scaled-up local risk management activities in those departments. In areas into
    which ERDMP will be expanding (namely the rural areas of the Department of the
    Ouest), consultants or NGOs will be selectedcompetitively in accordancewith Bank
    Guidelines.

50. ProcurementPlan and Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and Prior Review:
    The Borrower, at appraisal, developeda procurementplanfor project implementation
    which providesthe basis for the procurementmethods.This planwas agreed between
    the Borrower and the Project Team on November 28, 2007 and is included inAnnex
    2. The plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as
    required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
    institutional capacity. The recommended thresholds for the use of the procurement
    methods specified in the Legal Agreement are identified in the table in Annex 3.
    These thresholds, as well as the requirement for Bank prior review of all but the
    smallest contracts, are common to all World Bank projects in Haiti and have served
    as the basis for the agreed ProcurementPlan.

5 1. Frequency of Procurement Supervision: Supervisionwill be carried out primarily
    through the prior review by the Bank of virtually all procurement actions by PL-480
    or DPC. In addition, day-to-day procurement supervision will be supplemented by
    supervisionmissionsat least twice a year.


Environment & Social Safeguards

52. General. The same environmental and social safeguards will apply to the AF as to
    the original Grant financed activities and the same management frameworks will be
    utilized. As with the ERDMP, the AF rehabilitation activities will be primarily
    upgradingof existingstructures and will work entirelywithin existingpublic lands.

53. Scope and coverage. This AF will only support activities in the Departments in
    which the ERDMP is already present (Le Sud, Grande Anse, Nippes, Ouest and
    Artibonite). These Departments were already covered by the projects original EMP.
    In addition to operating in the same zones, the scope and type of activities remains
    unchanged.As a result, no new safeguards will be triggered.

54. Institutional capacity. The implementingagency, the PL-480 PCU, has engaged an
    environmental specialist who is responsiblefor assuring that those policies laid out in
    the Environment Safeguard Manual are respected. The project has also financed



                                            13

    numerous environmental safeguard and environmental training sessions for the
    specialist. A communications expert was also engaged based on the need observed
   during implementation to improve the quality o f communications/                    public
    consultations prior to undertaking small rehabilitation works.

55. Lessons Learned: The ERDMP's initial Environmental Assessment (EA) has been
    reviewed and cleared by the Bank. The PL-480 PCU will now produce an updated
   version o f the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Taking into account the
    lessons learned, the goal i s to bolster the environmental and social decision making
    framework so that the selected rehabilitation and risk mitigation micro-projects are
    environmentally sustainable. The updated EMP will define (where needed) the means
    o f improving the impact o f the sub-projects on the environment. The following
    changes are proposed to the EMP to reflect the lesson learned to date:

        Invest in an intensive communication campaign (including training and
        environmental sensitization program) directed at local and regional authorities, as
        well as the CCPC and the CDPC, to mainstream the process of vetting the
        proposed rehabilitation and mitigation works. This should further enhance the
        efficacy o f the environmental and social management framework operating under
        the ERDMP;
    0   Insupport of this training and sensitization program, the EMP will be updated to
        provide for the need for stronger oversight and follow-up during and after project
        execution. The "ground-truthing" o f the accuracy o f the initial environmental
        impact evaluation i s critical towards assessing the effectiveness o f this evaluation
        and the need to adapt the mitigation micro-projects to better respond to critical
        long term needs o f the at-risk populations;
    0   Strengthen the Monitoring and Evaluation activities that are covered by the
        Project and improve the communication o f these data with other actors who are
        working on flood control inHaiti.


VI. Expected Outcomes

56. There are no changes to the expected project outcomes which include (i)the
    rehabilitation o f areas affected by recent adverse natural disasters; (ii)  strengthened
    country capacity to manage natural disaster risks and better respond to emergencies
    resulting from adverse natural events; and (iii)  reduced vulnerability o f communities
    through risk identification and risk mitigation activities.

57. The project's outcome indicator also continues to be the establishment o f CCPC
    validated by the DPC. However the target value will be increased from 54 CCPCs to
    73 CCPCs to reflect the scaling up o f the project.




                                              14

                                   Table 4: ExpectedOutcomes

           PDO                  Original Project        Additional Outcome       New Project Outcome
                             Outcome Indicators               Indicators                Indicators
(i) To support the        (i) Satisfactory planning    (i)Satisfactory planning (i)Satisfactoryplanning
rehabilitationof areas    and completion of a          and completion of         and completion of a
affected by recent        rehabilitationscheme for     rehabilitationschemes     rehabilitationscheme
adverse natural events.   affected settlements in      in areas affected by TS   for affected settlements
                          the regions of Belle-        Noel.                     inthe regions of, Fonds
                          Anse, Fonds Verrettes                                  Verrettes those affected
                          and Gonaives                                           by TS Dean, and those
                                                                                 affected by TS Noel.

(ii) To strengthenthe     (ii) Capacity established                              (ii) Capacity established
country's capacity to     within the DPCto             (ii) No change            within the DPC to
manage natural disaster   prepare for, and respond                               preparefor, and respond
risks and to better        to, natural disaster events                           to, natural disaster
respondto emergencies     which includes a                                       events which includesa
resultingfrom adverse      validated legal system,                               validated legal system,
natural events.            stronger management                                   stronger management
                           systems, improved                                     systems, improved
                           technical capacity and an                             technical capacity and
                           operationalNational                                   an operationalNational
                           Response Plan.                                        Response Plan.

(iii) To reducethe         (iii) Functioningdisaster (iii) 19 CCPC fully         (iii) 73 CCPC fully
vulnerability of           committees, including       operational, validated    operational, validated
communitiesthrough         54 CCPC fully               by the DPC, and           by the DPC, and
risk identificationand     operational, validated by   incorporated into         incorporatedinto Haiti's
risk mitigationactivities. the DPC, and                Haiti's national disaster national disaster
                           incorporatedinto Haiti's    response system           response system
                           nationaldisaster
                           responsesystem
Intermediate Outcomes       Original Intermediate            Additional              New Intermediate
                              Outcome Indicators       Intermediate Outcome        Outcome Indicators
                                                              Indicators
Component 1
RehabiIitation and/or      Rehabilitationworks (to     Rehabilitationworks       Rehabilitationworks in
reconstruction of public   be determinedbasedon        post-TS Noel (to be       Fonds Verrettes, post
infrastructure in areas    sub-projectsto be           determined basedon        TS Deanand post-TS
affectedby natural         approved) in Fonds          sub-projectsto be         Noel (to be determined
disastersidentifiedand     Verrettes, Belle Anse       approved) identified      based on sub-projects to
completed.                 and Gonaives identified     and completed             be approved) identified
                           and completed                                         and completed




                                                     15

Component2
Institutionaland                                                           Establishmentof 3
technical structures    Thematic Committees                                Thematic Committees
supportingthe DPC and   within the SPGRD                                   within the SPGRD
SPGRD reinforced
Additional              Vehicles providedto the   No change                Vehicles providedto the
infrastructure and      DPC, at the nationaland                            DPC, at the nationaland
equipment strengthen    departmentallevelto                                departmentallevelto
disaster management     assist in disaster                                 assist in disaster
response and            management response                                management response
coordination            and coordination.                                  and coordination.

                        Renovationand                                      Renovationand
                        equipment of OPDES                                 equipmentof OPDES
                        Buildingto serve as the                            Building to serve as the
                        DPC's nationaltraining                             DPC's nationaltraining
                        and archivescentre                                 and archivescentre
DPC management          Institutionalanalysis of  No change                Institutionalanalysis of
systems reinforced      the DPC and SPCRD                                  the DPC and SPCRD
                        completedand key                                   completed and key
                        recommendationsfor                                 recommendationsfor
                        DPC administrative and                             DPC administrative and
                        technical training                                 technical training
                        implemented.                                       implemented.
Component 3
Creation, Reactivation, Creation, Reactivation    Creation, Reactivation   Creation, Reactivation
Training of Community   and Training of 54        and Training of 19       and Trainingof 73
Civil Protection        CommunityCivil            CCPC developmentof       CCPC ,development of
Committees              ProtectionCommittees,     local risk maps and      local risks maps,
                        developmentof local       identification&          identification&
                        risk maps, and            execution of at least 19 executionof at least 73
                        identification&           additionalsmall          small mitigation
                        executionof at least 54   mitigationprojects.      projects.
                        small mitigation
                        projects.                 Additionaltraining       Validationo f all
                                                  modules developedand     committees by DPC.
                                                  deliveryto 54 existing
                                                  CCPC.

                                                  Additional small
                                                  mitigationproject
                                                  executedby each
                                                  existingCCPC

                                                  Validationof all
                                                  committeesbv DPC.




                                                16

VII. Benefitsand RisksBenefits

Benefits

58. The principle beneficiaries o f the scaled-up project will be the inhabitants o f the areas
   most affected by TS Noel; including often remote and highly vulnerable communities
   as well as large urban community sections. Benefits stemming from the rehabilitation
   o f small-scale public infrastructure include; (i)   economic recovery in areas devastated
    by TS Noel through the rehabilitation of key productive infrastructure (eg irrigation
    and drainage systems) and opportunities for paid local labor, and (ii)           social services
    (e.g., rehabilitation o f schools, community areas, clinics) which double up as shelters
    in case of future disasters. Benefits from the strengthening o f the CDPC and CCPC
    include; (i)   reduced loss of life through improved disaster preparedness and response
    (alerts, evacuation and immediate post-disaster relief, and (ii)      reduced vulnerability o f
    life and property to disasters through local risk mitigation activities. AF will also
    provide broader benefits to the 5 Departments and the SNGRD by strengthening
    disaster risk management systems.

Risks

                        Risk              Critical Risks            Risk-Mitigation Measures
                                           Rating Post
                                           Mitigation
                                           Measures

     Governmentallocationof human               H        Government is committed to the additional
     resources to the DPC / SPGRD is                     human resourcesneeds as recommendedinthe
     inadequate                                          InstitutionalAnalysis report preparedunderthe
                                                         ERDMP.Effectivemeasures have beentakento
                                                         insulateactual project implementation from this
                                                         risk, includingthe creationof separate project
                                                         coordinationunitswhose staff are financed by
                                                        the project.Thus, the residual risk refersto
                                                         projectsustainability.

     Absence of budget allocationto             H        Need to follow through with Government's
     support DPC operations weakens                      commitmentto set up 3 new budget lines for the
     sustainability of the entire system                 DPC. Senior Bank management will raisethe
                                                         issue with the GoH if lines not included in the
                                                         rectificationbudget. Effectivemeasureshave
                                                         beentakento insulateactual project
                                                         implementation from this risk, with the project
                                                         directlyfinancing all essential implementation
                                                         costs. Thus, the residualrisk refers to project
                                                         sustainability.

     Governmentcommitment to                    M        Activities inthe project are included inthe
     disaster risk management is diverted                government investment program. GoHhasjust
     by other critical issues                           placeddisaster risk management as major cross-
                                                        cutting issue in PRSP.




                                                 17

                                                          The DPC's institutionalcapacity is being
     fundingfor risk management                           strengthened.Regular supervisionand support
     remains weak                                         meetingswill continueto be carried out.

     Disparityin NGO proceduresand               M        All NGOs (includingthose financed by other
     execution methodsthreatens                           donors) will employ a unifiedmethodology and
     integrity o f work throughout                        training content - which is currently being
     differentregions                                     synthesizedand validated by DPC as per the
                                                          SNGRD framework.

                                          I
     Rehabilitatedinfrastructure                  S       Selectioncriteriafor rehabilitationof works will
     vulnerable to future disasters                       precludefinancing o f any infrastructurehighly
     (especially floods).                                 vulnerable to floods.

     Overall Risk Rating                          S       Preparationshould include actions mentioned
                                                          above. Risks will be re-assessedon a regular
                                                          basis.

   1                                      I
    Risk Rating(including mitigatingactions): H=High Ris S=Substantial Risk, M=Modest Risk,
   N=Negligible or Low Risk.




VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

59. The AF to the ERDMP would be provided as an SDR 4.7 million IDA Grant. These
    funds were drawn from the FY08 IDA-14 regional allocations on a priority basis to
    assist with disaster recovery and risk reduction in Haiti, following GoH's official
    request for financial support.

   Annex 1: DisbursementAllocationsof AdditionalFinancingand Reallocation
                                                                     1
                                       Original      Additional       Reallocation     Total Amount
                                       Amount          financing        amount in       allocated in
                                   allocated in SDR   amount in            SDR*             SDR
Category                                                 SDR
(1) Works under PartA and C            100,000                                             100,000
ofthe Project(other than
Subprojects )

(2) Goods under Part A and C            20,000                                             20,000
of the Project(other than
                                                                                       1
Subprojects)

(3) Consultants' servicesand           535,000                                             535,000
Training under Part A and C
of the Project(other than
Subprojects )

(4) Works under Part B ofthe                                                               555,000
Project




                                                  18

      ng under Part B of the




* Inorder to cover the additional audit cost associatedwith the project extension, funds will be
reallocated from the original project. The reallocation process is separate from this proposed
additional financing, but will be carried out in parallel.




                                                 19

                    Annex 2: Additional FinancingProcurementPlan



                              Number                                      Review    Preparation
                                                                                                 opening
                                                                                                  Bid-
    Descriptionof Contract       of        Procurement      Estimated     by Bank   of Bidding /
                             Contracts       Method            cost       (Prior /   Proposal
                                                                           Post)       Docs       Date


   Irrigationand Drainage
   Rehabilitation                 4           NCB          1,000,000.00    Prior      0412008     07106
   SchoolRehabilitation           2           NCB           500,000.00     Prior      0412008     12106
   Health Clinic                                                           Prior
   Rehabilitation                 2           NCB           500,000.00                0412008
   Community Center /                                                      Prior
   Shelter Rehabilitation         2           NCB          1,000,000.00               0412008
   Expansionof Community                                                   Prior
   Driven Local Risk
   Managementin Sud &
   GrandeAnse (CRS)               1        Single Source   1,329,000.00               0512008    0512008
   Expansionof Community                                                   Prior
   Driven Local Risk
   ManagementinNippes
   (OXFAM)                         1       Single Source   1,218,000.00               0512008    0512008
   Expansionof Community                                                   Prior
   DrivenLocal Risk
   Managementin Artibonite
   (PADF)                          1       Single Source    742,500.00                0512008    0512008
   Expansionof Community                                                   Prior
   DrivenLocal Risk
   Managementto Ouest              1          QCBS          1,100,000.00              0412008    0712008

             Total                                         7,400,000.00

Note:   ICB = InternationalCompetitiveBidding   NCB = NationalCompetitiveBidding
        QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection QBS = Quality-Based Selection
        FBS = FixedBudget Selection                       LCS = Least-CostSelection
        CQS = Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications




                                               20

             Annex 3: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review

      Expenditure             Contract Value                Procurement                 ContractsSubject to
         Category              (Threshold)                     Method                     Prior Review
                              US $ thousands


 1. Works                        >1,000                         ICB                            All
                                100-1,000                       NCB                            All
                                   <150                       Shopping                         All
                            Regardlessof value           Direct Contracting                    All
 2. Goods                          >loo                          ICB                           All
                                 25-100                         NCB                            All
I                      I           5-25            I          Shouuing                I        All          I
I                                   <5                        Shopping           - - 1        None          I
                                                                             ~~




                            Regardlessof value           Direct Contracting                     All
 3. ConsultingServices
 -3.A Firms                 Regardlessof value         QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS                         All
                                   <loo              QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS, and                      All
                                                                CQS
                            Regardlessof value              Single Source                       All
 -3.B Individuals           Regardlessof value        Comparison o f 3 CVs in                   All
                                                     accordancewith Chapter V
                                                          of the Guidelines
 4. Works, Goods and               <50                CommunityParticipation                  None
 Services under                                        procedures detailed in
 Subprojects                                             OperationalManual


  Note:    Consulting Services: Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000
  equivalentper contract may be composedentirely of nationalconsultants in accordance with the provisions
  of paragraph2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines


           ICB = InternationalCompetitiveBidding      NCB =NationalCompetitiveBidding
           QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection QBS = Quality-BasedSelection
           FBS = FixedBudgetSelection                          LCS = Least-Cost Selection
           CQS = SelectionBasedon Consultants' Qualifications




                                                    21

                                  Annex 4: Financial Management Risks

                                   RiskAssessment              RiskMitigations measures              Residual
                                  H I S I M I L                                                       Risk
IInherent Risk
 Country Level. Quality of        X                   The integratedfiduciary assessment               S
 PFM institutions(see PEFA-                           (PEMFAR) was conductedby the Bank in
 PMF,CFAA, CPAR, CPIA &                               2007. Basedon the findings, an action plan
 other diagnostics), standard of                      was elaboratedby the Government. The Bank
 financial accounting, reporting                      and the IDB are assistingthe institutionsinthe
 and auditing, quality of FM                          implementationof this action planthrough
 profession                                           technical assistance grants (EGTAG I&II)  and
                                                      a DPL (EGRO I&     11).
 Entity level. Independenceo f                        The AF will be implementedby PL-480which         M
 entity's management,                                 is an autonomousagency with strong fiduciary
 appropriatenessofthe                                 capacity.
 organizational structure, impact
 o f civil service rules
 Program level. Relative size of                      The fiduciary arrangementsand the different      M
 the Bank loan, type of lending                       actions to be implemented as identifiedinthe
 instrument, complexityof the                         Audit will help mitigatethe risks.Close
 APG (e.g. sectors involved,                          financial management supervisionwill also be
 number of implementing and                           undertaken.
 sub-implementingentities,
 multi-donor etc.)
 Overall Rating Inherent Risk                                                                          M
 Control Risk
       Budget                                         The detailed cost table ofthe AF and the          L
                                                      procurementplan will be adoptedprior to
                                                      negotiations.
       Accounting                                     PL480 has a sound accountingsystem. The           L
                                                      software will be updatedto reflectthe increase
                                                      inthe allocations.
       InternalControls                               PL480 has a sound internalcontrol system. An      L
                                                      internalauditor hasjust been recruitedand
                                                      needsto be trained and will need to develop an
                                                      audit plan.
       Funds Flow                                     The flow of funds will remainthe same.            L
       FinancialReporting                            1The format and content of all the FMR will be     L


       Auditing                                                                                         L

 Overall ControlRisk                                                                                  Low
 Residual Risk Ratinp                                                                                Moderate




                                                     22

     i! P 3




m

              (A        G     0      c    b




                                                   d
                (A        s      0    c    b        P  CQ 0




           0b




                  (A     G     e,      u    b




   - 5
>3
  0 m ac0-0         (A     G      M     c    b




                      (A    G      e,    c    b

  v1g   VIB   I-




v)    e,   c)E

Project Schedule                                  Planned         Actual

FirstBank mission                                 11/12/07        11/12/07

Time takento prepareproject                       3 weeks         12/12/07

Appraisal                                         12113/07        12113107

Negotiations                                      01/07/08        1/07/08

Approval                                          01/29/08

PlannedDateof Effectiveness                       02/10/08




Name                           Specialty

CatherineTovey                 Task Team Leader

Fily Sissoko                   Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist

Yao Wottor                     ProcurementSpecialist

Solange Alliali                Sr. Counsel

Hilarion Burneau               Sr. FinanceOfficer

NadimKhouri                    Sr. Technical Specialist

Ross Gartley                   ExtendedTerm Consultant

Anita Daza                     LanguageProgramAssistant

Liliana Vendeuvre              Team Assistant




                               26

