                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001865



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2780)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.0 MILLION
                         (US$9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                         FOR A

                     CATASTROPHE INSURANCE PROJECT



                                   May 13, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective February 2011)

            Currency Unit = Haitian Gourde (HTG)
                   US$1.00 = HTG 37.85

          GOVERNMENT OF HAITI FISCAL YEAR
               October 1 to September 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement
ART       Alternative Risk Transfer
CARICOM   Caribbean Community and Common Market
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCRIF     Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CRO       Country Risk Officer
DFA       Dynamic Financial Analysis
DFID      Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EC        European Commission
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GFDRR     Global Facility for Disaster Reduction
GIRF      Global Indexed Reinsurance Facility
IBLIP     Index-Based Livestock Insurance Project (Mongolia)
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IFI       International Financial Institutions
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISDS      Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
JSDF      Jamaican Social Development Fund
MDTF      Multi-donor Trust Fund
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
OECS      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCN       Project Concept Note
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development (Japan)
PIC       Public Information Center
PID       Project Information Document
PML       Probable Maximum Loss
SPV       Special Purpose Vehicle
TCIP      Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool
TORs      Terms of reference
TRE-FDP   Treasurer’s Central Vice Presidency for Finance and Private Sector
          Development
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WB        World Bank
XL        Excess-of-loss




                Vice President: Pamela Cox
              Country Director: Alexandre Abrantes
               Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
          Project Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere
             ICR Team Leader: Olivier Mahul
                                                  HAITI
                                       Catastrophe Insurance Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information                                                                                                       i
   B. Key Dates                                                                                                               i
   C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                         i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                                 ii
   E. Bank Staff                                                                                                             ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                             ii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                                iv
   H. Restructuring                                                                                                         iv
   I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                    iv

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
  MAP IBRD 33417R
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Haiti Catastrophe
Country:                Haiti                   Project Name:
                                                                          Insurance
Project ID:             P104690                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2780
ICR Date:               05/13/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          HAITI
Original Total
                        XDR 6.0M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 5.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Sagicor
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/12/2007     Effectiveness:             07/31/2007        07/31/2007
Appraisal:            01/31/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/08/2007     Mid-term Review:           07/31/2008        12/01/2008
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                 100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                            100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Alexandre V. Abrantes                Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:            Guang Zhe Chen                       John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:       Francis Ghesquiere                   Francis Ghesquiere
ICR Team Leader:           Olivier Mahul
ICR Primary Author:        Olivier Mahul


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to reduce the country financial vulnerability
to natural disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes) of Haiti. This will be achieved through
the establishment of the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) and the
financing of catastrophe insurance coverage from the Facility.

  The project aims to allow Haiti to join the CCRIF and benefit from financial protection
against catastrophic earthquake and/or hurricane events. Without this grant, it is unlikely
Haiti would join this pilot initiative that represents the first entity created to protect small
island states from the financial impact of natural disasters.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval            Target         Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values          Target Years
                  To reduce Haiti's financial vulnerability to natural disasters (earthquakes and
Indicator 1 :
                  hurricanes).
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     The total claim paying capacity of the CCRIF.
Value
(quantitative     0                                                             $111.1 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/06/2007                                                    12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     The total sum insured for Haiti.
Value
(quantitative     0                                                             $51.8 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/06/2007                                                    12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                        IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                  (USD millions)
  1    04/20/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              0.00
  2    10/26/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              5.14
  3    04/07/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              5.14
  4    06/12/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              7.71
  5    11/05/2008       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              7.71
  6    03/31/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              7.71
  7    10/12/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory              9.00
  8    05/21/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory              9.00
  9    02/13/2011   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory              9.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Haiti is highly exposed to adverse natural events (including hurricanes,
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and tidal waves), which can result in disasters affecting
the country’s entire economic, human, and physical environment. On average, at least
one major hurricane and numerous tropical storms cross the Caribbean each year, often
impacting Haiti. A major hurricane strikes Haiti every seven years on average.

2.      Larger countries can generally absorb the impact of these adverse natural events
by subsidizing an affected region with revenues from unaffected regions. This type of
geographic diversification of risk is limited in Haiti. Similarly, Haiti has limited
borrowing capacity preventing it from spreading its risk over time by accessing credit.
Finally, Haiti has very limited access to international insurance markets. High transaction
costs and the relatively small business brought to the market keep insurance penetration
in the country to a minimum. Constrained by its size, limited borrowing capacity and
poor access to insurance, Haiti is less able to cope with losses from adverse natural events
and lacks resilience to the onset of disasters.

3.      A critical need of the governments of small states (including Haiti) in the
aftermath of a disaster is for short-term liquidity to maintain essential government
services until additional resources become available. With low level of financial reserves,
and limited access to credit and insurance, mobilizing resources after a major disaster will
often take months and absorb energy that would be better used elsewhere. This translates
into delayed response, financial stress and additional hardship for the affected population.

4.      Following the devastation caused by hurricanes in the Caribbean in 2004, the
CARICOM Heads of State requested World Bank assistance to gain access to affordable
and effective disaster risk financing instruments. In January 2006, with grant funding
from the Government of Japan and support from the Jamaican Social Development Fund
(JSDF), the World Bank initiated the preparatory studies for the establishment of the
CCRIF. The Facility was established in May 2007 and started operations one month later,
providing coverage to 16 Caribbean countries, including Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia,
St. Vincent & the Grenadines, Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, the Bahamas,
Barbados, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Haiti, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, Trinidad
and Tobago and Turks and Caicos Islands. The CCRIF receives support from a Multi-
donor Trust Fund (MDTF) established with contributions from Bermuda, Canada, France,
Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Caribbean Development Bank, the European Union and
IBRD.

5.      The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) provides
participating countries with catastrophe insurance coverage against major earthquakes
and/or hurricanes (see Box 1). The Facility enables governments to purchase liquidity
coverage that helps protect their budget against the shock of natural disasters. The

                                             1
CCRIF provides cash payout within weeks of an insured event (to date within two to
three weeks) to help the affected country address immediate financial needs. The 16
countries that joined CCRIF at inception are still members of the Facility today.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.      The project development objective was to reduce Haiti’s financial vulnerability to
natural disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes). This was achieved by providing an IDA
grant to allow Haiti to join the CCRIF and purchase financial protection against
catastrophic earthquake and/or hurricane perils. Given Haiti’s fragile economic and fiscal
situation it was unlikely that it would have joined this pilot initiative without this grant.
As such, the project supported the establishment and viability of the CCRIF, which was
believed to require at least eight members to become viable

7.     The key intermediate indicators for the project were: (i) The total claim paying
capacity of the CCRIF and (ii) the total sum insured for Haiti.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.     N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The main beneficiary was the government (Ministry of Economy and Finance) of
Haiti, allowing this government to respond more effectively to the initial needs of the
affected population resulting from adverse natural events. In this regard, CCRIF was an
efficient cost-effective alternative to trying to obtain insurance directly in the market or
retaining the financial risk by building its own reserves.




                                             2
Box 1. The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility

   The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) allows CARICOM
    governments to purchase insurance coverage to finance immediate post-disaster
    liquidity needs. The Facility allows participating countries to pool their country-
    specific risks into one, better-diversified portfolio. This diversification results in a
    reduction in premium cost of approximately 50 percent relative to similar products in
    the commercial markets.
   Claims payments depend on parametric triggers. Index-based (or parametric)
    insurance instruments pay claims based on the occurrence of a pre-defined event
    rather than an assessment of actual losses on the ground. This measurement, made
    remotely by an independent agency, allows for transparent, low settlement costs and
    quick-disbursing contracts.
   The Facility retains the first risk layer through its own reserves. Initial funding was
    needed to allow the Facility to retain some of the risks and access the reinsurance
    markets where it is most efficient. Bermuda, Canada, France, Ireland, the United
    Kingdom, the Caribbean Development Bank, the European Union and IBRD
    contributed US$67 million to the MDTF.
   The Facility transfers the risks it cannot retain to the international financial
    markets. This is done through reinsurance. For the 2009-10 season, the CCRIF
    retained US$20 million and placed US$132.5 million in the reinsurance market and in
    a catastrophe swap intermediated by the World Bank Treasury.
   The Facility is one of the most resilient catastrophe insurance pools worldwide. The
    CCRIF has developed a financial strategy and maintains sufficient risk financing
    capacity to survive a 1-in-1000 year event without drawing on more than $20 million
    of its own assets to pay claims. Should the total insured losses exceed its claims-
    paying capacity; payouts will be prorated based on the total amount of expected
    claims compared to the remaining available funds.
   The CCRIF was established as an independent legal entity controlled by a Board of
    Director representing donors and member countries. The Facility was created as an
    Insurance Captive owned by a trust. Both entities are registered in the Cayman
    Islands. The CCRIF is managed by an Insurance Manager with the financial and
    technical advice of a specialized Facility Supervisor. The CCRIF Board of Directors
    is composed of representatives from the donors and participating countries.
   The World Bank acts as fiduciary agent for funding provided by donors. The Bank
    is not a Board member of the CCRIF, but has participated in most of the meetings as
    an observer. It retains certain control in the initial phase on the use of donor funds as
    the trustee of the IDA-administrated MDTF. The Grant Agreement with CCRIF sets
    forth the terms and conditions under which grant funds are provided and how those
    funds can be used.
   Insured countries pay an annual premium commensurate with their own specific
    risk exposure. Parametric insurance products are priced for each country based on
    the individual country risk profile. Annual premiums vary from US$200,000 to US$4
    million, for coverage ranging from US$5 million to US$60 million per peril.

                                             3
1.5 Original Components

10.     The proposed project provided the Borrower with insurance coverage against
natural disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes). The project financed the participation fee
and the annual country-specific insurance premiums (100 percent of the premium for the
first two years and 50 percent of the premium for the third year) necessary to join and
obtain annual coverage from the CCRIF.

11.    The IDA financing was provided in four installments issued to CCRIF at the
request of Haiti’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. The financing was withdrawn by
the Borrower from its grant account for direct payment into the Facility. The project
included the following two components: (a) payment of participation fee and (b)
contribution to annual insurance premium for the first three years.

   Component 1: Payment of the participation fee to the CCRIF

12.    This component financed Haiti’s participation fee, which needed to be at least
equal to its annual premium. The IDA contribution to the participation fees is
summarized in Table 1.

       Table 1: IDA Contribution to Estimated Participation Fees (US$m)
                                        Participation Fee
                     Estimated (in the PAD)                Actual
    Haiti                     2.57                          2.57
    TOTAL                     2.57                          2.57

   Component 2: Payment of annual insurance premium

13.     This component financed 100 percent of Haiti’s annual insurance premium for the
first two years (2007-08 and 2008-09) and half for the third year (2009-10). Insurance
premiums paid are detailed in Table 2.

         Table 2: IDA Contribution to Annual Insurance Premium (US$m)
                      2007          2008           2009          TOTAL
                  Est. Actual Est. Actual Est. Actual          Est.  Actual
   Haiti          2.57   2.57   2.57    2.57 1.285 1.285      6.425   6.425
   TOTAL          2.57   2.57   2.57    2.57 1.285 1.285      6.425   6.425




                                            4
1.6 Original Components

14.    Components were not revised during the project execution.

1.7 Other significant changes

15.    None


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.     Lessons from earlier operations, including the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool
and previous attempts at designing catastrophe pools for the Caribbean region and
developing parametric insurance solutions were taken into account in the preparation of
this operation.

        Need for initial reserves: Previous experience in setting up insurance pools
       shows that there is a need for a minimum level of reserves in the pool to make it
       financially sustainable over the long run. Insufficient reserves in the CCRIF
       would have lead to over-dependence on costly risk transfer instruments, reducing
       the capacity of the Facility to increase its reserves overtime. Initial donor
       contributions of US$67.4 million helped put the CCRIF on sound financial track
       from the beginning by reimbursing the CCRIF for certain administrative,
       operational, R & D, and communications costs and for claims paid within its own
       risk retention. The expectation was for the CCRIF to build up its reserves to
       US$100 million within five years.
        Need for state-of-the-art catastrophe risk modeling: With financing from the
       Government of Japan, support from JSDF, and specialized consultants the team
       built a sophisticated catastrophe risk mode for Haiti and for the region as a whole.
       This was essential to ensure the sound design and pricing of the parametric
       (earthquake and hurricane) insurance products that the CCRIF was to offer.
        Need for transparency: The CCRIF’s country-specific catastrophe risk
       models allow for the transparent pricing of catastrophe insurance products. The
       pricing formula take into account the specific risk profile of each country.
        The need for early involvement of donor and extensive consultation with
       member countries: The task team engaged early-on in a gradual process of
       consultation and workshops with donors, officials and experts from the region to
       ensure that the CCRIF initiative would be tailored to the needs of the client
       countries and well understood.
        Critical business volume: A minimum number of countries, estimated at
       eight, was required to ensure that the Facility would have the diversification in its
       portfolio necessary to offer competitive and affordable pricing on the coverage
       provided. The IDA-financing under this project ensured that the poorest countries
       in the region could join the Facility at its inception.

                                            5
2.2 Implementation

17.     The grant proceeds were transferred annually from the Bank to the CCRIF
account at the request of the Haitian Ministry of Economy and Finance. To effect the
transfer, the Ministry of Economy and Finance submitted a withdrawal application for the
value of the participation fee and/or premium. The value dates of the direct payments to
the CCRIF of the grant proceeds for the IDA-contribution to the beneficiary country’s
participation fee and annual insurance premiums are presented in Table 3.

Table 3: Value Date of Direct Payment of IDA Contribution to Participation fee and
                           Annual Insurance Premiums
                               2007             2008             2009
      Haiti                  August 17         June 11          June 3

18.     The CCRIF insurance policy period, that is the period during which Haiti is
insured, is from June 1 to May 31 of the following year. Standard insurance contracts are
effective once the premium is paid.

19.    In close collaboration with the Facility Supervisor, the Bank liaised with Haiti’s
Ministry of Economy and Finance and the CCRIF to ensure that the premium payments
were made on time and the insurance policy issued by the start of the season.

20.     Haiti availed itself of financing from CIDA (via the CDB) to cover the 50 percent
portion of its 2008-2009 premium not paid by IDA. This was consistent with the
expectation in the PAD that Haiti would, given its severe and ongoing fiscal constraints,
need to continue to rely on donor support for payment of its premiums. The IDA
contribution that year could only be processed once Haiti had paid the other half of the
premium. Largely because of this, the direct payment of the IDA-contribution to the
CCRIF for Haiti occurred after the date of June 1. To avoid lapse in coverage, CCRIF
established a premium payment warranty in place until the premium was collected, so
that the insurance coverage started on June 1.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

21.    Following the results monitoring framework approved in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), the Bank conducted in depth reviews of the CCRIF’s first, second and
third years of operations, including interview with CCRIF members, donors, other
stakeholders and CCRIF Directors and service providers.. The Bank regularly reviewed
the CCRIF’S annual reports including its unaudited and audited financial statements. In
addition, the Bank attended nearly all CCRIF Board meetings as an observer.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

22.    The project was classified under category C.




                                           6
23.     Due to the specifics of the project components and implementation arrangements,
most standard fiduciary requirements and procedures did not apply to the project.
Because the IDA disbursements went directly to CCRIF’s account, Haiti’s participation
in project financial management was limited to the annual submission of a withdrawal
application requesting direct payment from the World Bank to the CCRIF. The Ministry
of Economy and Finance had sufficient capacity to do so. The Bank closely monitored
the project implementation process to ensure that payments were requested and processed
on time. A financial supervision mission to the CCRIF Insurance Manager’s office in the
Cayman Islands verified his capacity to ensure that the IDA disbursements were used for
their intended purposes. The project components did not finance works or consulting
services and the only contracts were the participation and annual insurance contracts
between the CCRIF and Haiti. Thus, there was no need for a procurement plan.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

24.    The Bank will continue to supervise the CCRIF until the IDA-administered
MDTF is fully disbursed. As of the end of January 2011, $4.1 million remained available
to CCRIF under its Grant Agreement. An additional $1 million remained in the MDTF
which has not yet been transferred to the Grant Agreement.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

25.    The Bank has been working with the GoH over the past years on the
implementation of an Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project, aimed at
reducing the country’s physical vulnerability and strengthening their emergency
management capacity. This project complemented ongoing activities in disaster risk
management in Haiti at the time.

26.     In the higher-level strategic context, the project contributed to the objective
spelled out in Section IV of the Millennium Development Goals, underscoring the need
“to intensify our collective effort to reduce the number and effects of natural and man-
made disasters.”

27.     Haiti was affected by a January 12, 2010, earthquake of sufficient magnitude to
trigger a payout under its CCRIF policy. In this case, the payout from CCRIF, which was
made only two weeks after the disaster, achieved its objective of helping the country to
address the immediate financial impact of the disaster.




                                            7
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

28.     The project development objective was to reduce Haiti’s financial vulnerability to
natural disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes). This objective was to be achieved by
providing financing to allow Haiti to join the CCRIF and purchase financial protection
against catastrophic earthquake and/or hurricane events.

29.     The IDA grant allowed Haiti to join the CCRIF from its onset, thus contributing
to the Facility’s viability. More specifically, the IDA grant financed Haiti’s participation
fee and 100 percent of its premiums for hurricane and earthquake insurance for 2007-
2008 and 2008-2009, and 50 percent of this premium for 2009-2010. This achieved the
PDO because, by joining the CCRIF and purchasing insurance, Haiti reduced its financial
vulnerability to hurricanes and earthquakes.

30.    CCRIF’s payout to Haiti (US$7,753,579) on January 26, 2010, two weeks
following the January 12, 2010, earthquake, has shown the effectiveness of CCRIF
insurance in terms of reducing Haiti’s financial vulnerability to natural disasters.

31.    The Project also achieved its intermediate outcomes.

           First, CCRIF has become a sustainable facility. The indicator for this in the
            PAD was its claims paying capacity. As of end-November 2010, CCRIF’s
            unaudited financial statements indicated that it had shareholder equity of
            $82.6 million and total assets of $111.1 million. In contrast, the PAD seems
            not to have anticipated that CCRIF’s reserves would exceed $80.0 million
            (e.g., see Figure A.11.4 page 37). For 2010-2011 (beginning June 1, 2010),
            CCRIF obtained $111 million in reinsurance on top of the $20 million in risk
            that it retained. With this $131 million in claims paying capacity, the CCRIF
            is estimated to be able to withstand a series of events having a modeled
            probability of occurring only 1 in 1,000 years. Given its additional resources
            (over and above the first $20 million), the Facility is estimated to have the
            capacity to pay claims above the top of its reinsurance associated with a
            series of events having a modeled probability of occurring only 1 in 10,000
            years, although it would need a recapitalization thereafter to continue
            operations. In contrast, the PAD did not anticipate that the Facility’s claims
            paying capacity would go beyond a 1 in 250 year event over the first five
            years of its operation (see pg. 39). The CCRIF’s claims paying capacity
            significantly exceeds that of the California Earthquake Authority – 1 in 800
            years – which is considered among the safest insurance facilities in the world.
            Thus, the CCRIF should be able to continue to provide liquidity coverage to
            interested countries for the foreseeable future.
           Second, Haiti is benefiting from partial coverage against hurricane and
            earthquake risks. The indicator for this in the PAD was the insured sum for
            Haiti (up to 20 percent of total losses). For 2010-2011, Haiti’s aggregate
            coverage stood at $51.8 million ($35.6 million for hurricane and 16.3 million


                                             8
            for earthquakes). This surpasses the expectation of $45 million in aggregate
            coverage by project end.

3.3 Efficiency

32.    The Bank and the Facility Supervisor worked closely with Haiti to design the
most cost-effective coverage of the insured hazards through the selection of the terms and
conditions of the insurance policies (e.g., attachment points, exhaustion points and
coverage).

33.    The cost of insurance (that is, the annual insurance premium) is driven by three
main factors: the annual expected loss, the operating cost and the cost of capital. The
annual expected loss reflects the insured risk exposure of the country.

           The CCRIF’s annual expected loss rises in line with its exposure and/or the
            modeled frequency of its claims payments.
           The Operations Manual of the CCRIF establishes a guideline that the annual
            operating costs (excluding the reinsurance costs, research and development,
            and technical assistance and broad stakeholder outreach activities) should not
            exceed 5 percent of the annual premium volume and the operating costs have
            remained within this guideline. In comparison, it should be noted that
            standard operating costs in the non-life insurance market are usually close to
            30 percent.
           Securing capital to cover excess losses is another cost and the CCRIF has
            also been efficient in this regard. Through CCRIF, its 16 members have
            derived the benefits of regional risk diversification. It is estimated that, for
            CCRIF’s 2008-2009 portfolio, its aggregate probable maximum loss (PML)
            from a 1 in 1,500 year event was 74 percent lower than the sum of the
            countries’ individual policy limits. This means that the amount of capital
            which was needed to sustain such a remote event was 74 percent lower when
            countries pooled their risks through the CCRIF than if they had gone to the
            insurance market individually to cover such an event. The CCRIF is also
            efficient compared with the costs its members would incur if they retained
            the catastrophe risk themselves, i.e., built their own reserves to sustain the
            event – approximately 70 percent less expensive for hurricane risk and 50
            percent less expensive for earthquake risk. In addition, due its transparent,
            well structured, and diversified portfolio, the CCRIF has been able to access
            the reinsurance market on very good terms. The reinsurance multiples
            (reinsurance premiums/annual expected reinsurance loss) were lower than
            two for the CCRIF’s first three seasons and, although the cost rose somewhat
            for the CCRIF’s fourth season, due to its introduction of a new hazard loss
            estimation model, it remained advantageous. As reinsurers are gaining
            familiarity with the new model, it is likely that costs will again decline.

34.    In addition, the CCRIF has been able to reduce its premium rates for its members
by 30 percent since its establishment, because of its growing financial strength, which has

                                             9
been facilitated by the MDTF, low reinsurance costs, and significantly lower than
expected indemnity payouts during its first three years of operation. More specifically,
the premium multiples (insurance premium/annual expected insurance loss) decreased
successively by 10 percent from the first to the second season, 11 percent from the
second to the third season, and another 12.5 percent from the third to the fourth season.
Most of the participating countries decided to take advantage of the improved pricing by
increasing their insurance coverage and/or lowering their attachment point (insurance
deductible), rather than by lowering their premium payment.

35.      Table 4 summarizes the evolution of the catastrophe coverage of Haiti over the
first three seasons, 2007-10.

         Table 4: Evolution of the Catastrophe Coverage of Haiti, 2007-2010
                                     Hurricane policy              Earthquake policy
               Total          Attachment        Coverage     Attachment       Coverage
               premium        point                          point
 Haiti               =                =              =              =              =
Note: =: unchanged; +: increase; -: decrease.
Attachment point: value at which an insurance payout is triggered.
Coverage: maximum payout for a given peril (earthquake or hurricane) during the policy
period.

36.     Table 5 illustrates the changes from the third season (2009-2010), which was the
last year of IDA support for Haiti, to the fourth (2010-2011). Perhaps influenced by the
January 2010 earthquake, Haiti, reduced its hurricane coverage and increased its
earthquake coverage.

Table 5: Evolution of the Catastrophe Coverage of Haiti, 2009-2011
                              Hurricane policy           Earthquake policy
              Total           Attachment       Coverage  Attachment      Coverage
              premium         point                      point
 Haiti        =               -                -         +               +
Note: =: unchanged; +: increase; -: decrease.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

37.     The primary development objective of this project, i.e., Haiti is eligible for
insurance payout (and has received a payout in case of an insured event), was fully met.
Haiti joined the CCRIF and purchased catastrophe insurance coverage on August 2007
and has purchased catastrophe insurance coverage for each of the CCRIF’s four years of
operation. Haiti received an insurance payout (US$7,753,579) triggered by the
earthquake that hit the Caribbean nation on January 12, 2010. This payout is believed to
be the first significantly financial inflow that the country received following the
catastrophe.

                                           10
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

38.    Natural disasters have a disproportional impact on poorer segments of the
population. Low-income households often settle in the most vulnerable areas and live in
poorly constructed housing. With low savings, the poor are also less able to cope
economically with the loss of fixed assets or livelihoods that they are likely to suffer after
a catastrophe. Being more vulnerable, they are also more dependent on government
support and relief and recovery programs. The payout to Haiti ensured that an initial
inflow of resources was immediately available to the government when its fiscal pressure
was particularly acute so that it could continue to pay civil servants and begin to put such
programs in place.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

39.     The project contributed to an increased awareness in the Ministry of Economy
and Finance about the economic and fiscal impacts of natural disasters on Haiti and the
role that financial risk transfer can play as part of a broader national disaster risk
reduction and management strategy. It also contributed to build capacity in the area
financial disaster risk management. Ongoing dialogue between CCRIF and officials from
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, particularly at the time of policy renewal, helped
to inform it about Haiti’s exposure to adverse natural events. The Ministry’s
participation in decision-making regarding the terms of the CCRIF insurance policies
(attachment points, exhaustion points, coverage limits, ceding percentages, etc.) helped
build its understanding of the products. Also, Haiti’s officials have had opportunities to
participate in workshops and events organized or co-organized by CCRIF on
comprehensive disaster risk management and climate change adaptation such as the
comprehensive disaster management conferences of the Caribbean Disaster Emergency
Management Agency in 2008, 2009, and 2010. They also had the opportunity to attend a
number of CCRIF-sponsored workshops on topics such as rainfall modeling and the
economics of climate adaptation.

40.     The CCRIF has also been promoting the appointment/designation of a Country
Risk Officer (CRO). The CRO would be responsible for the overall disaster risk
management strategy of the country; including the fiscal protection of the state against
natural disasters. This proposition is currently under discussion.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

41.     As a CCRIF member, Haiti was able to benefit from the CCRIF’s technical
assistance following the January 12, 2010, earthquake. The TA included high resolution
modeling during the approach of storms to estimate storm-related rainfall, wind speed,
and coastal flooding at critical locations such as aid operation centers, refugee camps, and
transportation hubs. In addition, with the CCRIF’s support, the Caribbean Institute for
Meteorology and Hydrology devised simple surface water flow models, which, together

                                             11
with historic basin-specific rainfall data, could be used by the Haitian authorities and
donors to guide decisions regarding long-term resettlement.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

42.    N/A


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Satisfactory

43.     PDO indicator: Haiti is eligible for insurance payment (and have received
payment) in case of an insured event. As noted above, this indicator was achieved. Haiti
benefited from project funding to pay its participation fee and premiums and obtained
CCRIF hurricane and earthquake insurance coverage for the three years since the
inception of CCRF in 2007.

44.     First intermediate result indicator: Total claims paying capacity of the CCRIF.
As also noted above, the CCRIF has robust claims paying capacity. With $111 million
in reinsurance, the CCRIF has the capacity to withstand a series of catastrophic events
having a probability of occurring only 1 in 1,000 years without needing to draw more
than $20 million from its own reserves. Given its additional resources (over and above
the first $20 million), the Facility is estimated to have the capacity to pay claims above
the top of its reinsurance associated with a series of events having a modeled probability
of occurring only 1 in 10,000 years, although it would need a recapitalization thereafter to
continue operations, This substantially exceeds the expectation in the PAD that it could
take the CCRIF five years to build sufficient capacity to pay claims associated with a 1 in
250 year event. It also compares favorably with the claims paying capacity of other
catastrophe pools such as the California Earthquake Authority (1 in 800 years) and the
Turkish Earthquake Fund (1 in 200 years).

45.     Second intermediate result indicator: Total sum insured for each country. For
2010-2011, Haiti’s aggregate coverage stood at 51.8 million ($35.6 million for hurricane
and 16.3 million for earthquakes). This surpasses the $48.3 million in aggregate coverage
anticipated in the PAD (See PAD Table A.9.1, page 29).

46.     Risk to PDO: The principal risk to the sustainability of the PDO arises from its
dependence on donor support to pay its premiums, which is expected to continue, but this
risk was anticipated in the PAD and is believed to be low. Donors may assess the costs
and benefits of CCRIF insurance relative to use of the funds for direct investment in
disaster risk reduction measures or supporting social mitigation programs. It is likely,
however, that the recent CCRIF payouts not just to Haiti following January 2010
earthquake, but also to Antigua and Barbuda after Hurricane Earl, and to Barbados, St.
Lucia, and St. Vincent & the Grenadines in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas will
provide a powerful argument in favor of the continued to support to Haiti for financial

                                            12
risk transfer through purchase of CCRIF insurance. Support for an increasingly visible
and important Caribbean institution and access to CCRIF-funded technical assistance and
knowledge-sharing programs are additional incentives to continue Haiti’s CCRIF
membership. Finally, the introduction of CCRIF’s excess rainfall product, expected for
2011-2012, will provide another reason for donors to support Haiti’s continued
participation in the Facility.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

47.     The Bank responded efficiently to a request from the CARICOM Heads of State
to gain access to affordable and effective disaster risk financing instrument by assisting in
the establishment of the CCRIF. It mobilized and coordinated highly specialized
expertise to design and implement the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility.
This was a path-breaking effort as the Facility is the first regional parametric catastrophe
risk pool in the world. One area where quality at entry could have been improved was
the results framework, particularly the intermediate outcome indicators, which lacked
specificity. For the first such outcome, “CCRIF is created as a sustainable Facility,” the
indicator was “total claims-paying capacity.” The PAD might have established a target
for this capacity, expressed in terms of either an absolute amount of CCRIF assets or the
return period of a series of events it should be able to withstand. For the second
intermediate outcome, “country benefits from partial coverage against hurricane and
earthquake risks,” the indicator was “total sum insured for each country (up to 20% of
total losses).” It was implicit that “losses” referred to those suffered by the government,
rather than physical damage in the country, and to those incurred within the return period
between the attachment and exhaustion points of the country’s policies. It would have
been preferable for these matters to have been made explicit.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly satisfactory

48.     The Haiti Catastrophe Insurance Project itself required little direct supervision
because there was no procurement and funds did not pass through Haitian institutions or
accounts, but rather went directly to the CCRIF. However, as Project success depended
crucially on the CCRIF’s success and as the CCRIF was highly innovative – the first
regional catastrophe risk insurance pool established worldwide – the Bank supervised the
Facility intensively. Accordingly, during the Haiti Catastrophe Insurance Project’s three-
year implementation period, the Bank conducted three in-depth supervision missions and
produced two mid-term review reports. These reports and their recommendations were

                                             13
shared and discussed with the CCRIF Board of Directors and service providers, some
CCRIF members, and other stakeholders, including donors and Caribbean regional
organizations. The findings and recommendations of the third supervision mission were
discussed with the CCRIF Board of Directors in December 2010 and a report was
published in April 2011. In addition, the World Bank attended all but two of the CCRIF
Board’s quarterly meetings as an observer to offer guidance and technical support. A
major focus of the Bank during its on-going dialogue with the CCRIF, supervision
missions, and its participation in the CCRIF Board meetings has been to help the CCRIF
strengthen its Operations Manual, notably with respect to the Facility’s governance
arrangements, including financial management and procurement processes. The Bank
sent financial management missions to CCRIF headquarters in the Cayman Islands to
supervise the FM aspects of the project and verify the Facility’s capacity to use project
funds for their intended purposes. Other areas of emphasis in the Bank’s supervision of
the CCRIF have been on supporting the Facility’s research and development activities
and on advising it on pricing, risk transfer, and cash and asset management policies;
strengthening its stakeholder outreach; and structuring its technical assistance program.
In addition to the three in-depth mid-term evaluations, reports to management on the
Board meetings and twice-yearly ISRs were, in accordance with LCR regional practice,
produced, reviewed by management and filed in IRIS.

49.    In addition to the above, the Bank, the CCRIF, and CCRIF’s reinsurance
providers conducted a joint test of the claims payment process for a simulated hurricane
to ensure that the respective roles were well understood and that the established
procedures would work smoothly. The Bank has processed within 48 hours CCRIF’s
withdrawal applications associated with all insured events.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

50.    The Bank’s performance was satisfactory at entry and highly satisfactory during
supervision, as described above.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

51.     The grant proceeds were transferred annually from the Association to Haiti’s
CCRIF account at the request of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The Ministry of
Economy and Finance submitted a first withdrawal application for the value of the
participation fee and the annual insurance premium in 2007; a second withdrawal
application for the value of the annual insurance premium in 2008; and a third withdrawal
application for 50 percent of the value of the annual insurance premium in 2009. Ministry



                                           14
of Economy and Finance officials led the country’s annual discussion with the CCRIF
Facility Supervisor regarding renewal of Haiti’s policies.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: N/A

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

52.    See paragraph 51.


6. Lessons Learned

53.     This project offered Haiti the opportunity to join the first ever regional
catastrophe insurance pool and thereby secure immediate liquidity in case of covered
disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes). It is part of a broader development agenda of
Bank support aimed at reducing the vulnerability of Haiti and other Caribbean island
countries to natural disasters. After three years of operations, several lessons can be
drawn from this project.

54.     Risk pooling is effective in significantly reducing the cost of individual
country’s financial risk transfer through insurance. The CCRIF’s risk financing
strategy of relies on a strong reserve base (made of donors’ initial contributions, the
participating countries’ participation fees and annual insurance premiums), and
international reinsurance capacity. Achieving the optimum balance between reserves and
reinsurance is necessary both to ensure the Facility’s financial strength and to allow the
participating countries to access catastrophe insurance at the lowest possible cost.

55.     Extensive communication with participants is required not only leading up to
the facility’s inception, but also throughout its operations to ensure that its products
are well understood. Catastrophe insurance is a new tool for many Caribbean island
countries, and thus requires extensive capacity building. Aggressive, targeted and
continuous communications are required to explain the instrument and what it does and
does not cover. Communications need to reach beyond the decision-makers to the
general public. It is important for the public to understand that even though a disaster
may result in personal losses, it may not meet the policy’s parameters for triggering a
payout and, further, that when a payout is triggered it is made to the government for
general liquidity purposes and not to indemnify individuals for their losses. In addition to
Quarterly and Annual Reports and an informative website, proactive press outreach is
important to supplement information provided directly to decision-makers. Technical
assistance activities and workshops for persons from the participating countries can also
build understanding, as can partnering with other regional organizations.



                                            15
56.     Catastrophe risk financing programs can help bridge the gap among
Ministries of Finance and agencies involved in disaster risk management. Risk
modeling tools to assess financial exposure to natural disasters can provide loss estimates
in dollar terms that can help Ministries of Finance better understand and compare threats
to their fiscal balance and sensitize them to the need for more pro-active disaster risk
management strategies. The analytical process can help increase interaction between
Ministries of Finance, national emergency management agencies, and hydrological and
meteorological institutes.

57.     Even with insurance coverage, countries must continue to invest in risk
reduction measures. An important message to convey in stakeholder and public
communications is that catastrophe insurance is not and should not be considered a
sufficient risk management product, but has to be part of a broader risk management
strategy. While such insurance provides protection against financial loss, it cannot
reduce or avoid the impact of adverse natural events. With economic growth, the value
of assets exposed to natural disasters and the population affected by them increase.
Growth will become unsustainable – as will the cost of financial protection – without
proactive policy measures and physical investments to address the causes of risks, avoid
creating new risks, and mitigate existing risks and vulnerabilities.

58.    The use of IDA resources for targeted and limited subsidies can help
countries test and establish insurance programs. In the present case, IDA financing
for Haiti’s participation fee and insurance premium during the first three years of the
CCRIF’s operation allowed the Haiti to join the CCRIF and test its value at without cost
and risk to itself. IDA finance also served as a vehicle to deepen the Bank’s dialogue
with Haiti on its broader and longer-term disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation strategies.

59.     Rapid claims settlement through parametric insurance is feasible and
effective. Following the occurrence of insured events, CCRIF made full insurance
payouts within three weeks (that is less than the 90 days as specified in the insurance
policies). In Haiti’s case, the payout came within two weeks. This provided a rapid cash
injection to assist the Government with its near-term financial needs, thus achieving the
objective for which CCRIF had been established.

60.    An efficient budget execution system is important. The quick cash injection
following a natural disaster is effective only if the country’s post-disaster budget
execution system allows for an immediate use of these funds. Countries should be
encouraged to conduct a disbursement test for a simulated disaster and possibly further
improve their post-disaster budget execution system.




                                            16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

61.    The Ministry of Finance and Economy of Haiti endorsed the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

62.     A CIDA representative noted the importance of CCRIF maintaining, if not
expanding its membership. In that regard, on-going financial assistance to support
Haiti’s annual CCRIF premium would be required and, possibly, to other CCRIF
members that might be experiencing fiscal constraints. Noting CCRIF’s plans to
introduce excess rainfall insurance, the representative also urged that CCRIF consider
coverage of additional perils such as losses to agricultural crops and lands due to adverse
natural events.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

63.    N/A




                                            17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                     Percentage of
          Components             Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                      Appraisal
                                    millions)       millions)
 To assist Haiti in joining the
CCRIF through the financing
of the participation fee. This           2.570.00        2.570            100
fee is equal to the first year's
insurance premium.
 To assist Haiti in purchasing
the catastrophe insurance
                                         6.430.00        6.425           99.92
coverage offered by the CCRIF
during the first three years.

         Total Baseline Cost            9.00               8.995         99.94
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00               0.00           N.A.
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00               0.00          N.A.
          Total Project Costs           9.00               8.995         99.94
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00               0.00          N.A.
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00               0.00          N.A.
   Total Financing Required             9.00               8.995         99.94




(b) Financing
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal
                                                             Estimate     Percentage
 Source of Funds      Type of Cofinancing   Estimate
                                                              (USD       of Appraisal
                                          (USD millions)
                                                             millions)
Borrower                                       0.00            0.00          N.A.
IDA Grant                                      9.00           8.995          99.94




                                         18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Payment of the participation fee to the CCRIF

                               Participation fee (US$ millions)
Haiti                                        2.57
TOTAL                                         2.57


Component 2: Payment of the insurance premium to the CCRIF

                                        Annual
                                       Premium
                                       (US$m)
                   2007-2008          2008-2009         2009-2010   Total
     Haiti            2.57               2.57             1.285     6.425




                                          19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      While no empirical data are maintained that quantify the relationship between ex
ante risk financing instruments, such as catastrophe insurance and reduced impact of
disaster losses on a country’s vulnerability, previous international experience tends to
confirm that ex ante risk financing arrangements are more effective than post-disaster
mechanisms to finance immediate liquidity needs, because payments are based on
predefined rules and are usually quickly disbursed in the aftermath of a disaster.

2.      Given Haiti’s limited fiscal flexibility, particularly in the aftermath of a disaster,
the government is particularly vulnerable to these events, and thus the benefits of
catastrophe insurance are expected to be higher than the cost of insurance. In other words,
the social cost of catastrophic risk bearing is expected to be higher than the commercial
premium, making it better off with catastrophe insurance than without. Consequently,
catastrophe insurance should generate, on average, a positive rate of return.

3.      The financial benefits of the CCRIF can be estimated through the reduction in the
estimated insurance premium compared to (a) the case where the Haitian government
would have to buy the same coverage individually; and (b) the case where the it should
self-retain the catastrophic risks, because insurance would not be available on the market.

4.      A simple but robust economic model was developed from the portfolio risk model
to illustrate the benefits of purchasing catastrophe insurance offered from the CCRIF.
Precise analysis is particularly difficult for catastrophe insurance where costs (that is,
insurance premiums) are definitive while benefits (that is, insurance indemnity payouts)
are at best probabilistic. Hurricane insurance and earthquake insurance, when available,
are assumed to be offered with a 30-year return period attachment point, a 200-year
return period exhaustion point. The attachment point is the minimum loss required to
trigger a payout, while the exhaustion point is the maximum payout the government
could receive.

5.      The price of coverage offered by the CCRIF is estimated through a portfolio risk
analysis coupled with a pricing model. It builds on the catastrophe risk models
developed during the preparation phase and updated by the CCRIF supervisor. It is
compared with the hypothetical insurance price if it were offered individually by direct
insurers. Such catastrophe insurance coverage is currently not available to Haiti.
Hypothetical individual insurance premiums for Haiti are derived through a basic pricing
equation based on the estimated annual average loss, the 200-year probable maximum
loss and the opportunity cost of capital (set at 12 percent).

6.      The estimated CCRIF insurance premium is also compared with the cost of self-
retention if Haiti had to retain this risk (because insurance markets were not available)
through reserves. Should Haiti be risk neutral, the cost of self-retention would be




                                             20
estimated through the annual average loss over a long period. This assumption is
consistent with Arrow-Lind Public Investment Theorem (Arrow and Lind 1970),1 which
states that governments should be risk neutral toward natural disasters and thus they
should not invest in any risk financing strategies that are more expensive than the
expected losses caused by a natural disaster. This theory is in fact implemented by a
number of large developed countries that rely on post-disaster financing (including
budget reallocation and tax increases) to finance catastrophic losses. However, this
theory fails in the case of small and highly indebted countries like Haiti, because they can
spread the risk neither across space (geographic spread) nor across time (inter-temporal
spread). Therefore, the cost of self-retention is assumed to be equal to the annual average
loss plus the opportunity cost of reserves. The opportunity cost of reserve is equal to the
amount of reserves necessary to survive a 1-in-200-year event, multiplied by the marginal
opportunity cost of capital (set at 12 percent).

7.       The cost of CCRIF insurance is compared with the cost of individual insurance
(that is, if the country had purchased insurance individually) and the cost of self-retention.
CCRIF hurricane insurance is estimated to be approximately 50 percent less expensive
than individual hurricane insurance, and approximately 60 percent less expensive than the
cost of country’s self-retention. CCRIF earthquake insurance for Haiti is estimated to be
43 percent cheaper than individual earthquake insurance and 50 percent less expensive
than self-retention. This is a direct consequence of risk diversification.




1
 Arrow, K., and R. Lind, “Uncertainty and the Evaluation of Public Investment Decisions,” American
Economic Review, 60(3)364–78, 1970.


                                               21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
         Names                         Title              Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Ana F. Daza              Language Program Assistant      LCSUW
Francis Ghesquiere       Lead Urban Specialist           LCSUW
Olivier Mahul            Program Coordinator             GCMNB

Supervision/ICR
Carlos Rufino Costa
                         Consultant                      LCSUW
Posada
Todd W. Crawford         Consultant                      LCSEG
Ana F. Daza              Language Program Assistant      LCSUW
Maricarmen Esquivel      Junior Professional Associate   LCSUW
Marc S. Forni            Consultant                      LCSUW
                         Disaster Risk Management
Ross Alexander Gartley                                   LCSUW
                         Specialist
                         Senior Financial Management
M. Mozammal Hoque                                        LCSFM
                         Specialist
Saman Karunaratne        Finance Analyst                 CTRDM
Patricia E. Macgowan     Consultant                      LCSPT
Olivier Mahul            Program Coordinator             GCMNB
Andrew Mitchell          Consultant                      LCSUW
Ulrich Cedric Myboto     Consultant                      AFTWR
Atsuko Okubo             Senior Counsel                  LEGCF
Jonathan Palin           Consultant                      LCSUW
Rolande Simone Pryce     Senior Country Officer          LCC3C
Yao Wottor               Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT




                                       22
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                             11.69
  FY08                                                              0.00
                          Total:                                   11.69
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                              3.91
  FY08                                                             63.35
                          Total:                                   67.26




                                       23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Workshops and conferences hosted by Caribbean stakeholders (including four
OECS countries) or by CCRIF itself:

     Alliance of Small Island States Negotiators’ Preparatory Workshop
    CCRIF was represented by CaribRM at this workshop in Grenada during the period
    23-25 July 2009. CCRIF’s presence was requested to review and provide
    recommendations into the AOSIS proposal for the creation of a Multi-window
    Mechanism to address loss and damage from climate change impacts.
     
     Regional Workshop on the Excess Rainfall Model held in Barbados in
        February 2010
    CCRIF member countries (including the four OECS) and potential members attended
    this event.

       Regional Workshop on Economics of Climate Adaptation held in Barbados
        in May 2010

     Regional Ministerial-level Meeting on Climate Change and Development
    CaribRM represented CCRIF at this regional meeting in St. Lucia on 14 & 15
    September, 2009. This event formed part of the Caribbean region’s preparation for
    the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen on 7-18 December,
    2009. The meeting was hosted by the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Secretariat,
    the Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre (CCCCC) and the Government of
    St. Lucia.
 
     Fourth Caribbean Conference on Comprehensive Disaster Management
    CCRIF was a main sponsor of the Fourth Caribbean Conference on Comprehensive
    Disaster Management held in Montego Bay, Jamaica on 7-11 December, 2009.
    CCRIF’s involvement in the conference included hosting a professional development
    session (PDS), “Hazard Risk Reduction Initiatives in the Context of a Changing
    Climate: Prospects for Promoting Sustainable Prosperity in the Caribbean,” attended
    by over 60 representatives of ministries of finance, national disaster coordinators and
    other stakeholders from throughout the region; and sponsoring 15 participants at the
    PDS and conference.

     14th Meeting of the Council for Finance and Planning (COFAP)
    Meeting of Caribbean Ministers of Finance 27 February & 1 March 2010, held in
    Trinidad & Tobago. CCRIF Chairman, Mr. Milo Pearson, participated in this forum
    and discussed CCRIF’s activities and operations.




                                            25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

See paragraph 61.




                                  26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

See paragraph 62 and 63.




                                    27
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents

Project Appraisal Document. The World Bank. Report No. 38540-HT. February 6,
2007.

A Review of CCRIF’s Operation After its First Season. The World Bank. December 1,
2008.

A Review of CCRIF’s Operation After Its Second Season. The World Bank. April 2010.

Reducing Financial Vulnerability to Natural Disasters in the Caribbean: A Review of
CCRIF’s Operation After Its Third Season. The World Bank. April 2011.

CCRIF Documents

Annual Reports (including audited financial statements): Available at www.CCRIF.org




                                         28
                                                                                                                                                 73°W                                                                                           72°W
                                   HA I T I                                                                                                                    AT LA NT IC                                       OCE AN                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                            Île de la Tortue                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                Palmiste
                                  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                              20°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20°N
                                                                                                                                                 Port-de-Paix




                                                                                                        e
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                     ag
                                                                                                   ss
                                  RIVERS




                                                                                               Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To




                                                                                               d
                                  MAIN ROADS                                                                                         OUEST
                                                                                                                              NORD - OUE ST                                                                                                                                          Monte




                                                                                                                                                           Les
                                                                                                          Môle St.-Nicolas




                                                                                           ar




                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Christi




                                                                                          dw




                                                                                                                                                              Tro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cap-Haitien




                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                               r i
                                  RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                      in
                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                              Limbé
                                  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         Gros-Morne                                                                       Fort-Liberte                                           To
                                                                                                                                Baie de
                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORD                                                                                       Santiago
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                     Trou-                  Ferrier
                                                                                                                                Henne                                                                      Grande Rivière                     du-Nord
                                                                                                                                                                                                                du Nord

                                                                      74°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ennery                           Saint-       NOR D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORD - EST
                                                                                                                                                                             Gonaives                                               Raphaël
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Saint Michel




                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                          n                           de l'Attalaye




                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                              tr




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gu
                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                            Golfe de                                               a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aya
                                                                                                                                                                                                       l




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    mp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m
                                                                                                                                           la Gonâve                                                       Pl




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       uo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      at
                                                                                                                                                                       ARTIBONITE                                          ea         Maïssade
                                                    HAITI                                                                                                                                                                       u                       Hinche


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOM I N I CAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                   Verrettes               on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                      tttiii
                                                                                                                                                                                                           b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lac de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Péligre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R E PUB L I C
                                                                                                                                                 La Cayenne
                                                                                                                                       Île de
                                                                                                                                    la Gonâve             Anse-à-Galets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mirebalais                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           San Juan
                                                                                                                             Pointe-à-Raquette


                                                                                           Grande
                                                                  Jeremie                 Cayemite
                                                                        Roseaux                                                                                                                                                 Croix des
                                                                                                                                                                             PORT-AU-PRINCE                                     Bouquets
                                                    GRANDE-
                      Anse d'Hainault                ANSE                                                                                                                       Léogâne                                                  Étang                                        Lago                 To
                                                       f de la Ho
                                                                  tte                                            NIPPES                                                                                    OUEST                        Saumâtre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Enriquillo          Barahona
                                                 Massi                                                                           Miragoâne
                                                                                                                                  Miragoâne
                                                                                                                                                              Petit-
                                                                                                                                                              Goâve                                                                     Chaine de la Selle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2680 m )
                                                        Les Anglais   Camp-Perrin                  SUD
                                                                                                                             Vieux Bourg
                                                                                                                                d'Aquin
                                                                                                                                                                                           SUD - EST                                           Belle-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Anse         Thiotte
                                                                                                                                                                                          Jacmel
                                                                                                                                                   Côtes-de-fer                                                Marigot
                                                                                               Les Cayes


                                                                      Port-Salut
                                                                                                   Île à Vache
               18°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 33417R
JANUARY 2006




                       0     10        20   30    40 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                         Caribbean                            Sea                                                                                                                          Oviedo

                       0          10         20        30 Miles
                                                                      74°W                                                                       73°W                                                                                           72°W
