Reducing Financial Vulnerability to Natural Disasters – The Caribbean Experience
                                                                                                      93483
                                                                                                      May 8, 2012



 Reducing Financial Vulnerability to Natural Disasters – The Caribbean
 Experience


Overview
A series of World Bank projects helped create the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance
Facility (CCRIF) and also fund the initial membership of several countries from the region. The
facility ensures these countries have rapid access to emergency financing after severe weather
events, and several have already done so. Haiti, Dominica, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines suffered earthquakes or hurricanes sufficient to trigger payouts totaling US$13
million. These rapid cash infusions reduced each government’s financial vulnerability to the
disasters, helping them to make ends meet while waiting for larger-scale financing.


Challenge
In 2004, Hurricane Ivan inflicted losses on Grenada
                                                                  More Results
estimated at 200 percent of its gross domestic product
(GDP).  The government’s fiscal revenues plummeted.  It

                                                                  US$7.8
was financially unable even to keep civil servants at work to
mount immediate relief efforts to address the human
dimensions of the tragedy.
Latin American and Caribbean countries are among the most
exposed to natural disasters in the world.  The Caribbean
states have particularly limited capacity to respond as their
                                                                  million
                                                                  payout after the devastating
domestic revenue bases are small and they lack timely and         January 2010 earthquake to Haiti
affordable access to external finance, including insurance. 
Without financial instruments to enable the governments to
buffer the impact of natural disasters, the social and
economic gains from years of development can be quickly
wiped out, particularly for the poor.                             100%
For these reasons, after Hurricane Ivan, the Caribbean            of the countries’ membership fee
                                                                  and premiums for the first two
Community (CARICOM) asked the World Bank to help                  years were paid by IDA funds
develop a mechanism to reduce its members’ financial
vulnerability to future hurricanes and earthquakes.

                                                                 LEARN MORE
Approach
                                                                Project Details :
The Bank’s disaster risk management experts worked closely      Haiti Catastrophe Insurance Project
with external risk management specialists to design and         (P104690)
establish the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility     Four Catastrophe Insurance
(CCRIF).  Aggregating individual country risk into a            Projects for the Organization of
                                                                Eastern Caribbean States
diversified portfolio, CCRIF can offer members hurricane and
                                                                (P094539)
earthquake insurance at a price 45-50 percent lower than
what they might be able to obtain directly from insurance          The CCRIF website
markets.  Claims payment follows the occurrence of a pre-
defined event (e.g., wind speed or ground motion of a certain
magnitude) rather than an assessment of actual losses after
the fact.  This enables CCRIF to make a rapid payout to the
insured government (so far, within three weeks) to help meet
its immediate financial needs.   Financial risk transfer must be complemented by policy reforms
and physical investments to strengthen the disaster resilience of public and private assets.  The
Bank also provides technical and financial assistance to Haiti and OECS countries on these
matters.


Results
The Bank’s development objective was to reduce the countries’ financial vulnerability to natural
disasters, and success was measured by claims-paying capacity of the fund, as well as its
actual support for member countries:

      IDA funding enabled the beneficiary countries to join CCRIF and purchase financial
      protection against catastrophic hurricane and earthquake events.  As a result, IDA
      funding also contributed to the diversification of CCRIF’s risk portfolio, its premium
      income, the growth of its claims paying capacity, and its ability to offer affordably-priced
      insurance to its members. The beneficiary countries have continued to purchase
      insurance after their IDA funding was exhausted.

      Dominica and St. Lucia received payouts of US$528,000 and US$419,000, respectively,
      after a November 2007 earthquake.

      Haiti received a US$7.8 million payout after the devastating January 2010 earthquake.

      St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines received payouts of US$3.2 million and
      US$1.1 million, respectively, following Hurricane Tomas in October 2010.

      CCRIF’s claims-paying capacity is robust.  With its 2010-2011 reinsurance, CCRIF will
      remain financially viable even after paying claims resulting from a highly unusual series
      of events – claims that would far exceed its modeled average annual loss – without
      needing recapitalization in order to continue operations.



Bank Contribution
IDA funds paid for 100 percent of the countries’ membership fee and premiums for the first two
years, broken down as follows: Haiti US$9.0 million; Dominica US$4.5 million; Grenada
US$4.5 million; St. Lucia US$4.5 million, and: St. Vincent and the Grenadines US$700,000. 
The World Bank projects covered 50 percent of the countries’ premiums for the third year and,
for Dominica and St. Lucia, also for the fourth.


Partners
Grant funding from the Government of Japan and support from the Jamaican Social Investment
Fund supported preparation of the projects.  Grant contributions to a multi-donor trust fund
from the governments of Bermuda, Canada, France, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, as well
as from the European Union, the Caribbean Development Bank, and the IBRD played an
essential role by financing certain of CCRIF’s administrative, reinsurance, and research and
development costs during its first four years of operations (2007-2011).  This permitted CCRIF
to build its reserves and risk-bearing capacity quickly and, as it did so, to progressively lower
the cost of its products.


Moving Forward
The Bank continued to supervise CCRIF until the multi-donor trust fund closed in January
2012.  CCRIF is expected to be able to sustain its operations.  As described above, its risk-
bearing capacity is strong, comparing favorably with other natural disaster insurance providers,
such as the California State Earthquake Authority.  As the first multi-country natural disaster
risk pool and parametric insurance facility in the world, CCRIF is being closely studied by
governments with a view to replicating it in other regions of the world.


Beneficiaries
Direct beneficiaries are the insured governments and people of the CCRIF member countries
as they rely on governments which are well positioned to provide services in the aftermaths of
emergencies. Government’s financial capacity to begin the recovery process is strengthened by
the payout which becomes part of their general fiscal revenues.  The poor are important
indirect beneficiaries.  They are disproportionally affected by natural disasters and are most
dependent upon Government relief and recovery operations.
