Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20727 AFR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR
PROPOSED CREDITS
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 45.2 MILLION (US$59.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND SDR 37.9 MILLION (US$50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT), RESPECTIVELY,
TO THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE US$500 MILLION MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PROGRAM FOR THE AFRICA REGION
AUGUST 14, 2000
AFRHV
AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica)
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = US$
SDR 1 = US$ 1.32
US$ 1 = SDR 0.76
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACTafrica AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AIDS Acquired hImune Deficiency Syndrome
APL  Adaptable Program Loan
ARV  Antiretroviral (Drugs)
BCC  Behavior Change Communication
CSW   Commercial Sex Worker
CBO  Community-Based Organization
DlHS Demographic and Health Survey
GPN  General Procurement Notice
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
HIV  Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAPSO  The Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Manager:    Debrework Zewdie
Task Team Leader:    Anwar Bach-Baouab
Task Team Members:    Hans Binswanger, Jonathan Brown, Rene
Bonnel, Therese Cruz, Sheila Dutta, Keith
Hansen, Yasmin Jiwa, Robert Ritzenthaler,
Bachir Souhlal, Robert Saum, Irene Xenakis



IDA International Development Association
IEC Information, Education & Communication
IPAA International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa
KAP Knowledge Attitudes & Practices
MAP Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
M&E Monitoring & Evaluation
NAC National AIDS Council
NACP National AIDS Control Program
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
01 Opportunistic Infections
O&M Operation & Maintenance
PCU Program Coordinating Unit
PLWHA People Living with HIV & AIDS
PMR Project Management Report
PO Private Organization
PTCT Parent-to-Child Transmission
STI Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB  Tuberculosis
TTL Task Team Leader
UNAIDS Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNFPA United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
VCT Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO World Health Organization
Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Technical Annex
AE Authorities to Incur Expenditure
CACC Constituency AIDS Control Committee
CBK Central Bank of Kenya
DACC District AIDS Control Committee
DARE Decentralized AIDS & Reproductive Health Project
FMA Financial Management Agent
GOK Government of Kenya
ICR Implementation Completion Report
MTEF Mid-Term Expenditure Framework
NACC National AIDS Control Council
OP-NACC Office of the President-National AIDS Control Council
PA Procurement Adviser
PACC Provincial AIDS Control Committee
PS Procurement Specialist
SOE Statement of Expenses
TOR Terms of Reference
TOT Training of Trainers



Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIADS Project
Technical Annex
AWP Annual Work Program
BC  Beneficiary Communities
BG  Block Grants
BPA Birr Project Accounts
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR Country Procurement Assessment Review
DPPC Disaster Prevention & Preparedness Commission
EAF Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund
EMSAP  Ethiopia Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Program
EOI Expressions of Interest
ETL Ethiopia Team Leader
FMF Financial Management & Accounting Firm
FMM Financial Management Manual
FSM Federal Sectoral Ministries
GOE Government of Ethiopia
HFO HIV/AIDS Facilitation Officer
HNACS  Head, NAC Secretariat
HRD Human Resources Development
IC  Individual Consultants
ICB International Competitive Bidding
IDF Institutional Development Fund
IPIP Interim Program Implementation Procedure
KAC Kebele Administration Committee
LC  Letters of Credit
MFI Micro-Finance Institution
MOF Ministry of Finance
NCB National Competitive Bidding
NS  National Secretariat
PAS Project Accredited Staff
PC  Program Coordinator
PCFM PC Finance Manager
PCME PCU M&E Consultant
PCPC PCU Procurement Consultant
PCPF PCU Program Facilitation Staff
PIM Program Implementation Manual
QCBS Quality- & Cost-Based Selection
RAC Regional AIDS Council
RB  Regional Bureau
RFP Request for Proposal
RPA Regional Procurement Advisor
RPR Rapid Plasma Reagin
RS  Regional Secretariats
SA  Special Account
SC  Special Commitment
SPN Specific Procurement Notice
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
WA  Woreda Administration
WAC Woreda HIV/AIDS Advisory Committee



AFRICA - MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PROGRAM (MAP)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Development Objective                                                      9
1. Program purpose and phasing                                                             9
2. Program development objective                                                           11
3. Key performance indicators                                                              11
B. Main Issues and Strategic Context                                                             12
C. Program Description Summary                                                                   13
1. Project components                                                                      18
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program                           19
3. Benefits and target population                                                          19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                           20
D. Program Rationale                                                                             25
1. Program alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                              26
2. Lessons learned and reflected in the program design                                    26
3. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                       27
4. Value added of IDA support in this program                                             27
E. Summary Program Analysis                                                                      28
1 Economic                                                                                28
2. Financial                                                                               28
3. Technical                                                                               29
4. Institutional                                                                           29
5. Social                                                                                 29
6. Environmental                                                                           30
7. Participatory Approach                                                                  30
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                                      30
1. Sustainability                                                                         30
2. Critical risks                                                                          31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                          34
G. Main Credit Conditions                                                                        35
H. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                                 35
Annexes
Annex 1: Logframe Template for HIV/AIDS Program                                                  36
Annex 2: Eligibility Criteria and Country Table                                                  45
Annex 3: Guidelines for Operationalizing an Intensified Response at the Country Level            50
Annex 4: Program Monitoring and Evaluation                                                       59
Annex 5: Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS                                                           62
Annex 6: Ethiopia Multisectoral HIVIAIDS Project                                                 81
Annex 7: Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project                                               159
Annex 8: Program Processing Schedule                                                            224
Annex 9: Documents in the Program File                                                          225



AFRICA
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFRHV
Date: August 14, 2000                             Team Leader: Anwar Bach-Baouab
Manager: Debrework Zewdie                         Sector(s): Multi-Sector
Project ID: P071233                               Theme(s): HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: APL                           Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 378.4 million; $500 million equivalent
APL la
IDA       Government      Civil society  Total
US$ million US$ million   US$ million   US$ million
Kenya    50.0        2.4            ..            52.4
Ethiopia  59.7       2.0             1.7          63.4
APL lb
Countries
Meeting
Eligibility
criteria    390.3    20.6*           4.1          415.0
* Estimates based on first two country operations.
Projects financial data:
Amount: SDR 83.1 million (US$109.7 million equivalent)
Proposed terms: Standard IDA
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Up to 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%



Financing Plan
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa: Phase 1
IDA Financing
BALANCE:               (US$ million)
Total                      500.0
Kenya                        50.0
Ethiopia                     59.7
Total Phase la             109.7
Balance                    390.3
Kenya: AIDS Disaster Response Project
IDA's Estimated Disbursements
US$ million
FY                       2001/2002    2002/2003     2003/2004     2004/2005
Annual                   4.8           15.2         15.0          15.0
Cunulative               4.8          20.0          35.0          50.0
Ethiopia: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
IDA's Estimated Disbursements
US$ million
FY                       2001/2002               2002/2003               2003/2004
Annual                   14.1                    20.4                    25.2
Cumulative               14.1                   34.5                     59.7
Kenya: AIDS Disaster Response Project
Financing Plan
Source                   Local                  Foreign                  Total
US$ million            US$ million             US$ mnillion
IDA                      47.0                   3.0                      50.0
Government               2.4                    0.0                      2.4
Total                    49.4                   3.0                      52.4
Ethiopia: Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Financing Plan
Source                   Local                  Foreign                  Total
US$ million            US$ million             US$ million
IDA                      44.0                   15.7                     59.7
Government               2.0                    0.0                      2.0
Community                1.1                    0.0                      1.1
NGOs, etc.               0.6                    0.0                      0.6
Total                    47.7                   15.7                     63.4



Borrowers: Governments of Ethiopia and Kenya
Other African country governments
Guarantors: Not applicable
Responsible agencies:
Ethiopia: Office of the Prime Minister
Address: P.O. Box 1031
Contact Person: Dr. Dagnachew Haile Mariam
Tel: 251-1-55-77-99    Fax: 251-1-55-20-20        Email:
Kenya: Office of the President
Address: National AIDS Control Council, Kenyatta National Hospital, P.O. Box 19361, Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Dr. Tom Mboya
Tel: (254) (2) 714972/ 729549 Fax: (254) (2) 729504/726036 Email: Office of the President
Kenya Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 1t quarter FY2001 Expected closing date: FY2005
Ethiopia Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 1" quarter FY2001 Expected closing date: FY2004



A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1.   Program purpose and phasing:
1.   The HIV/AIDS epidemic now poses the paramount threat to development in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Nearly 25 million Africans are living with HIV/AIDS, the vast majority of them adults in the prime of
their working and parenting lives. Another 14 million have already died from AIDS, with devastating
social and economic consequences. The epidemic has erased many of the development gains of the past
generation and now threatens to undermine the next. Twelve million African children have been
orphaned. Life expectancy has fallen by decades in many countries, and in the most heavily affected may
soon drop as low as 30 years. AIDS is costing the region close to one percent of economic growth each
year, while imposing an unsustainable and mounting burden on households, firms, and the public sector.
Yet despite heightened awareness in recent years, the epidemic continues to gain speed. Last year four
million Africans were newly infected, the highest number to date. Three in four Africans now live in
countries where HIV prevalence exceeds five percent-the threshold at which economic growth falters,
demand for health care grows faster than government can supply it, and the epidemic typically hits a
"takeoff' point. Unless far more aggressive action is taken across the continent, HIV/AIDS will continue
its rapid advance and progressively choke off all other development efforts.
2.   The tragedy of the epidemic is compounded by the fact that it is preventable. Despite the lack of a
cure or a vaccine, preventive measures such as awareness programs to bring about behavior change,
social marketing of condoms, treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and opportunistic
infections such as tuberculosis, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), a safe blood supply, and
preventing parent-to-child transmission (PTCT) have all proven highly effective in reducing HIV
transmission. Community-based programs have been especially effective in enhancing prevention, care,
support, and treatment for those infected and affected by AIDS. All African governments have initiated
responses of this sort to some degree. Few, however, have multisectoral programs of national coverage,
and none has committed domestic and external resources commensurate with the epidemic.
3.   While some countries in Sub-Saharan Africa have made progress in reversing the spread of the
epidemic-notably Senegal and Uganda-most have not, despite having national H1V/AIDS programs.
Their efforts have fallen short for five principal reasons: they have been inadequately financed; there has
been inadequate government commitment and leadership; support from governments and the international
community has been too slow, especially for scaling up programs that have proven effective; not enough
resources have reached communities; and programs have been too narrowly focused on the health sector.
4.   Although the Bank has supported H1V/AIDS efforts since 1986, few African countries have drawn
more than token resources from IDA for this purpose. To step up its response, last year the Region
adopted a new strategy, Intensifying Action against HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development
Crisis. The strategy rests on four pillars: (1) advocacy to position HIV/AIDS at the top of the
development agenda and to stimulate an intensified response; (2) increased resources and technical
support to mainstream HIV/AIDS into all sectors; (3) prevention efforts for both targeted and general
audiences, and activities to enhance care, support and treatment; (4) expanding the knowledge base to
help countries design and manage comprehensive programs based on local circumstance and best
practices. Together, these measures constitute the Region's commitment to the Joint United Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and the International Partnership Against HIV/AIDS in Africa
(IPAA), which comprises African governments, the UNAIDS cosponsors, bilateral donors, and the
private sector. Early indications show that many other donors would be prepared to cofinance HIV/AIDS
projects on a country-by-country basis. In launching the strategy, the Region undertook to work in full
collaboration with these partners. Since then, the Region has taken several steps to integrate HIV/AIDS



10
into both lending and non-lending services. It is retrofitting its current portfolio to include prevention and
mitigation components in as many sectors and projects as possible, continuing to develop free-standing
HIV/AIDS projects, and carrying out analytical work. However, these ad hoc steps alone are not enough
to outpace the epidemic or to avert its potential consequences. More systematic action is urgently needed.
5.   Accordingly, as set out in the strategy, the Region has designed the proposed Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program for Africa (MAP). The MAP is structured as a "horizontal" adaptable program
lending (APL) instrument, which will consist of individual operations in African countries that meet the
eligibility criteria set out in section C, below. The first two country cases are presented here; it is
proposed that subsequent cases would come into the program with Management approval, following
circulation of a country document for a 1 0-working-day period during which Executive Directors could
request a Board discussion of the proposed operation.
6.   Because mitigating the epidemic is a medium- to long-term challenge, the MAP will be phased
over an estimated period of 12 to 15 years. Phase 1, which is presented here, will commit its resources
over the next three years. Subsequent phases will be processed in a manner similar to that of repeater
projects, each subject to Board approval. The goal of Phase 1 is to intensify action against the epidemic
in as many countries as possible. Its twin objectives will be: (a) to scale up prevention, care, support and
treatment programs; and (b) to prepare countries to cope with the unprecedented burdens they will face as
the millions living with HIV today develop AIDS over the next decade. Following a rigorous
stocktaking, Phase 2 will then be designed to mainstream those innovations that have proved effective,
attain nationwide coverage wherever it was not achieved during Phase 1, expand care, support and
treatment interventions, and attempt to include all interested countries that did not take part in the first
phase. By Phase 3, it is expected that new infections will have declined, which will permit a sharper
focus of prevention on areas or groups where the spread continues. The number of AIDS cases will
probably peak during Phase 3, requiring a maximum effort in care, support and treatment.
7.   The ultimate impact of the MAP will be to avert millions of HIV infections, alleviate suffering for
tens of millions, and help preserve the development prospects of entire nations. Given the nature of the
epidemic, once it has spread in the general population (adult prevalence in Africa as a whole is now
8.57%) overall HIV prevalence will not likely decline for several years. But the pace of new infections
and a host of key factors that fuel the spread of HIV can be influenced in the short term. Each phase of
the MAP will therefore play an important role in contributing to a cumulative impact on the epidemic.
Rationalefor the Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP)
8.   Most Sub-Saharan African countries have strategic plans and ongoing AIDS prevention programs.
Several countries have recently progressed to comprehensive national action plans and have managed to
overcome denial through advocacy. Most also have excellent isolated examples of AIDS prevention and
care projects managed by government departments, community-based organizations, PLWHA, NGOs,
and the private sector. However, all these programs still operate on too limited a scale, often reaching
only a small fraction of the population, and too many still remain limited to the health sector. National
programs have, by and large, failed to scale up their own proven and culturally adapted interventions to
achieve nationwide coverage.
9.   The proposed MAP would redress all of these shortcomings. By visibly committing substantial
IDA resources-an initial amount of US$500 million in flexible and rapid funding over three years-and
leveraging co-financing on a country-by-country basis through the IPAA, it would help ensure adequate
resources to fund all sound national HIV/AIDS plans in full. Prospects for cofinancing with other donors
will be sought at each country level. By using streamlined procedures and generic prototypes, it would



11
quicken the pace of project preparation while reducing the transaction costs to countries and to IDA. By
allowing for much broader disbursement, it would ensure that resources reach all actors involved in
HIV/AIDS efforts, especially communities. The overall program is based on the new paradigm for
addressing HIV/AIDS: strong national leadership coupled with strong support for local responses. While
a great deal of work has gone into its design, the most concentrated effort will be devoted to
implementation, both by the countries and by IDA and its partners.
10.  The MAP would also remove some of the burden from the health sector, which has been expected
to do far too much in spearheading national programs. Although some ministries of health have done a
cormmendable job of coping with the impact of H1V/AIDS on the health system, none has succeeded in
coordinating a multisectoral response. Those few countries that have made significant progress in
slowing the epidemic (such as Uganda) have placed the coordinating body of national H1V/AIDS efforts
under the president's office, where it has the visibility, reach and authority to coordinate and mobilize all
stakeholders. Applying this lesson, the MAP would provide support multisectorally, directly to sector
ministries and all other entities involved in the effort, rather than through the piecemeal approach of
sector-specific operations.
2.   Program development objective:
11.  The overall development objective of the MAP is to dramatically increase access to HIV/AIDS
prevention, care, and treatment programs, with emphasis on vulnerable groups (such as youth, women of
childbearing age, and other groups at high risk). The specific development objectives of each individual
country project, as stated in the national strategic plans, will provide the basis for this program and be
agreed upon at the time of appraisal of the national projects.
3.   Key performance indicators:
12.  Given the rapidly evolving nature of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, strong and flexible monitoring will
be critical to the development of effective programs. The ongoing availability of information regarding
levels of HIV infection in various populations, in addition to behavioral data, provides crucial guidance in
improving the impact of prevention, care, support and treatrnent interventions. Within the initial three
years of the MAP, it will not be possible to measure longer term impacts such as reductions in HIV
prevalence and AIDS-related deaths. It will, however, be possible to collect information on intermediate
outcomes such as increased age at first sex among young people, that lead to the desired program impacts.
Performance monitoring for the MAP will focus on three core groups of indicators, to be adapted to
country circumstance in each case. The groups, with a few illustrative indicators for each, are as follows:
A. Output Indicators
Availability and quality of treatment for STIs and AIDS-opportunistic infections
Knowledge of means for preventing HIV/AIDS
Use of condors during last risky sexual encounter
B. Process Indicators
Coverage of HIV/AIDS programs
Share of comrnunity-level action plans progressing toward achievement of their objectives
Availability of voluntary counseling and testing
C. Impact Indicators
[Rate of new sexually transmitted infections among young people
Increase in median age of first sex
School enrolment rates among orphans



12
13.  Performance indicators for countries will be tailored to the specifics of national programs. Specific
performance indicators for the Ethiopia and Kenya projects are discussed in Annexes 6 and 7.
B. MAIN ISSUES AND STRATEGIC CONTEXT
14.  Virtually every country in Sub-Saharan Africa has a national HIV/AIDS program encompassing
prevention, care, and treatment. But in most countries the epidemic continues spreading despite these
efforts. The most crippling problems have been the inability to act multisectorally or to deliver resources
to the many local actors in such programs, and thereby generate a broad-based response at the community
level. In nearly every country, the four most pressing needs are:
*   Strong political and government commitment
15. Strong government commitment has proved essential in every country that has made headway
against the epidemic. This calls for bold political action and leadership, not merely tacit approval of
public H1V/AIDS efforts. Leaders need to speak openly and frequently about HIV/AIDS, overcome
taboos, and place the epidemic at the center of their development agendas. Governments need to re-
examine spending priorities in light of the rapidly growing costs of AIDS, and reallocate accordingly.
Governments can also leverage existing programs such as education and agricultural extension by
integrating HIV/AIDS into them at modest cost. Management of national programs belongs in the
highest office of government. The MAP can assist in all these measures, but government commitment
and leadership is a prerequisite for success.
*   Scaling up what works
16.  Almost every country has successful interventions underway at a small scale and in dispersed sites.
But national HIV/AIDS programs often have insufficient funds and inadequate funding mechanisms to
bring such activities up to scale, especially outside the public sector and at community levels. The central
theme of the MAP is to build capacity and help expand these effective interventions wherever feasible (or
replicate them where expansion is impractical), with a view toward reaching national coverage in the
shortest time possible. Special emphasis will be put on monitoring and evaluation and a process of
permanent social impact monitoring to ensure that what works well on a small scale works just as well
when expanded.
*   Increasing community participation and ownership
17.  Successful HIV/AIDS programs in Sub-Saharan Africa have involved local communities in the
identification, design, preparation, and implementation of activities and governance mechanisms. In
prevention, communities can set norms, influence behavior, and tailor interventions in ways appropriate
to the local culture. In care and support, communities bear the lion's share of the responsibility,
especially for such things as home-based care for those living with HIV/AIDS and support for orphans.
But most communities lack the resources to mount programs of adequate scope, and central governments
typically lack the means to deliver resources quickly and sustainably to the conmmunity level. The MAP
will therefore support community involvement through capacity building and through the establishment
of HIV/AIDS emergency grant facilities that will channel resources directly to communities. The
activities to be supported will be identified at the local level and subject to transparent local
accountability.



13
Moving to a multi-sectoral approach with improved coordination and decentralization
18.  HIV/AIDS is a major development crisis affecting all sectors. It requires a national response
involving all sectors, and should be both well-coordinated and decentralized to move quickly toward
comprehensive national coverage. Past HIV/AIDS programs have typically been coordinated and
supported by ministries of health, which seldom had the authority or experience to coordinate the many
stakeholders in different sectors needed for effective prevention, care, and treatment. At the same time,
programs were concentrated at the central level with little effort or involvement from regions and
communities. More successful approaches in recent years have relied on programs, coordination
mechanisms, and implementation channels that are multisectoral in nature, operate at national, regional,
and local levels, and have broad stakeholder involvement. The role of multisectoral national HIV/AIDS
councils in providing strategic guidance, leading institutional and policy reforms, ensuring coordination
and adequate implementation, and monitoring and evaluation has been pivotal. At the same time,
implementation has been decentralized to regional and local levels where programs can be effectively
managed and expanded when successful. The MAP will place strong emphasis on supporting efforts
across all sectors and at all levels.
C. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
19. The Multi-Country H1V/AIDS Program is a "horizontal" APL under which country-specific IDA
credits will be developed to support national HIV/AIDS programs. This first phase of the program will
consist of individual lending operations up to an aggregate amount of US$500 million. Phase la
comprises tlle first two projects, for Ethiopia and Kenya, which are submitted for Board approval at this
time. Subsequent country operations under Phase lb will be prepared in countries meeting the eligibility
criteria set out below, and will follow the prototypes developed in Ethiopia and Kenya. In accordance
with procedures for APLs, each such operation would be circulated to the Executive Directors for
infornation after approval in principle by Management. Management approval would become effective
10 working days thereafter. Any operation could be scheduled for discussion if at least three Executive
Directors so requested during the 10-day period.'
20.  Countries will qualify for support from the MAP on the basis of eligibility criteria. Lessons from
the past 20 years have shown certain elements to be essential to a successful response to HIV/AIDS.
Foremost among these are government commitment and leadership. Key policy and structural building
blocks must also be in place. In view of the urgency of making financing available to the greatest number
of countries, the eligibility conditions focus on the readiness of national HIV/AIDS programs, and the
commitment of the government to a stepped-up national response and to decentralized, community-based
implementation mechanisms. To be eligible, each country will need to demonstrate:
*   Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIVWAIDS. This would typically be demonstrated
by a coherent national, multisectoral strategy and action plan for HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and
treatment that has been developed through a participatory approach using social assessment
techniques. It could also be demonstrated by having a participatory strategic planning process
underway, with a clear roadmap and timetable.
1   The Board approved procedures for APLs, including "follow-on" operations in September 1997 (Please refer
to documents R97-203 and M97-56).



14
*   A high-level HIVWAIDS coordinating body such as a national HIV/AIDS council or equivalent has
been established to oversee the implementation of the strategy and action plan. This body should
encompass broad representation of key stakeholders from all sectors, including PLWHA..
*    Government has agreed to use appropriate implementation arrangements to accelerate project
implementation, such as chanmeling grant funds for HIV/AIDS activities directly to communities,
civil society and the private sector, as well as having in place effective financial management
(including controls and audits) and procurement, using outside expertise when necessary.
*    Government has agreed to use andfund multiple implementation agencies, especially
community-based and non-governmental organizations.
21.  The individual country operations will provide rapid, flexible support to implement national
HIV/AIDS programs, and will finance expenditures to strengthen HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment,
and impact mitigation. They will support a comprehensive range of activities:
*   Investments and technical support to enhance a broad range of HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and
mitigation activities implemented by the public, private, and non-governmental sectors and to
provide capacity building;
*    Community initiatives to develop and broaden the capacity of communities to plan and manage
activities for HIV/AIDS infected, affected, and vulnerable groups;
Institutional strengthening of national, regional, and local HIVWAIDS committees to establish
more effective coordination, management, and mobilization of resources for multi-sector
interventions; and
*    Monitoring and evaluation systems and a process of permanent social impact assessment and
stakeholder consultation to ensure that HIV/AIDS programs reach beneficiaries directly, quickly,
and with maximum impact on the ground.
22.  In each country, the national strategy and action plan will provide the guiding framework for
support from the MAP, as well as from governments, the donor community, and stakeholders such as
NGOs, professional and special interest associations, and civil society. Well-developed plans will include
the following elements:
*   A shared analysis and shared perspective of priorities and gaps;
*   Negotiated annual work plans and budgets;
*   Agreed milestones and indicators of achievement;
*   Agreed working arrangements and responsibilities such as national coordination mechanisms,
common design and appraisal, implementation, financial control mechanisms, monitoring and
evaluation, and use of technical resources;
*    Agreed resource mobilization plans drawing on all potential partners (government, donors, private
sector);
*    Mechanisms to ensure timely resource transfer and technical support to district/community-level
actions; and
*    Mechanisms to ensure active involvement of PLWHA.
23.  The MAP will help finance a share of the investment spending and recurrent expenditures based on
each country's assessment of its critical needs, resource gaps, and opportunities for scaling up actions.



15
The choice and emphasis of interventions to be financed within each country will vary according to a
number of factors, including:
*    Current and projected future stages of the epidemic in the country;
*    Critical gaps and priorities in ongoing national responses to HIV/AIDS;
*    Program development and implementation capacity;
*   Participatory planning methods involving stakeholders in problem analysis and activity design;
*    Multisectoral analysis of existing programs, coordination, and resource flows; and
*    Implementation arrangements including fiduciary, monitoring, and evaluation mechanisms.
24.  To define priority interventions, Annex 3 presents guidelines for operationalizing an intensified
response at the country level and a typology that classifies the current African epidemic into two sets
based on HIV prevalence rates (low and stable vs. growing or high). The MAP would finance essential
expenditures to strengthen HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and impact mitigation. This would
include the treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections-notably tuberculosis-and prevention of
PTCT. It will typically support the following components:
*   Prevention, including information, education, and conmmunication (EEC) for specific target groups,
condom promotion, voluntary counseling and testing for vulnerable groups of the population;
participatory approaches to behavior change;
*    Care and treatment, including the treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections such as TB;
strengthening the availability of and access to essential drugs, training of health workers, clinical
management of HIV/AIDS-related conditions, and support to home and community-based care and
support activities; ensuring a safe blood supply through improved screening and blood transfusion;
*   Research and surveillance, including baseline surveys of epidemiology, knowledge and behavior,
improved HIV sentinel surveillance to monitor the epidemic, and analysis for the design and
implementation of cost-effective interventions;
*    Capacity building for program coordination, resource management, and implementation at all
levels; and
*    The establishment of sound monitoring and evaluation systems to enable program implementing
agencies to monitor performance indicators for each component of their programs.
25.  Although the MAP will support the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities, four emerging
interventions bear special comment. First, Sub-Saharan Africa remains the only global region where
more women than men are HIV-positive. For biological, cultural and economic reasons, adolescent
women are particularly vulnerable to HIV infection. In several countries, for every 15-to-19-year-old boy
who is infected, there are five to six girls infected in the same age group. A host of factors account for the
greater prevalence among women in Africa, including their limited autonomy and bargaining power,
economic and legal marginalization, certain cultural practices (e.g. female genital mutilation, wife
inheritance), low educational attainment, and the lack of female-controlled preventive methods. Given
the heavy toll of HIV/AIDS on women in Africa, the MAP will incorporate interventions to help women
protect themselves and to address the underlying causes of their women's vulnerability. Program
interventions will include: providing women with improved economic, social, and educational
opportunities; changing attitudes about men's and women's traditional gender roles; strengthening
community-based women's organizations; safeguarding women's interests through legal reforms; and
supporting technologies that enable women to protect themselves (e.g., female condom, microbicides).



16
26.  Second, as the number of adults living with HIV/AIDS grows, the number of children infected with
HIV is also increasing. Transmission can occur during pregnancy, childbirth, and breastfeeding.
Reducing PTCT can therefore be a potent tool in a comprehensive HIV/AIDS program, if accompanied by
appropriate health and social services for the woman and child. In the past two years, evidence has shown
that short, cost-effective antiviral treatment can reduce the transmission of HIV from parent to child.
Based on this evidence, WHO and lUNAIDS have produced a broad spectrum of recommendations to help
countries in reducing PTCT. Under the MAP, in resources will be available to support the expansion of
PTCT programs appropriate to the country context.
27.  Third, the rapid rise in adult deaths is also generating an unprecedented number of orphans.
Before AIDS, only about two percent of children in developing countries were orphans. Today, AIDS
alone has akeady orphaned ten percent of children in some African countries, and the share is growing
fast. These children are at far higher risk for malnutrition, illness, abuse, and sexual exploitation, and are
far less likely to attend school. Safeguarding the future of this generation poses one of the greatest social
protection challenges that many of the affected countries have ever encountered. Many efforts to support
and protect orphans are already showing promise. These usually involve enhanced public assistance for
core social services (especially health and education) and for community-based care and support. The
MAP will support an expansion of such efforts and other innovative interventions to reduce the
vulnerability of these children.
28.  The fourth intervention is the use of anti-retroviral (AR V) drugs. These drugs have proven
effective in delaying the onset of AIDS and substantially prolonging life expectancy among HIV-positive
persons in developed countries. Because of their high price and sensitivity, however, these therapies have
been out of reach for most developing countries. Recent initiatives by pharmaceutical firms are likely to
bring prices down considerably, but serious issues of sensitivity, resistance, and equity remain to be
overcome before ARV drugs could be used in many of the countries MAP will support. The Bank has
been working closely with its UNAIDS partners, drug companies, and developing-country govemments
on access to ARV therapy. As the situation evolves, individual ministries of health may explore ways of
introducing ARV therapy. The MAP will support the development of guidelines and the strengthening of
health infrastructure to make use of these drugs safe, effective and sustainable. IDA will also actively
follow up the trend in affordability and efficacy and remain open, on a case-by-case basis, to supporting
ARV drugs and the necessary infrastructure where resources may be required.
29.  The MAP will also support systematic mechanisms for drawing lessons from the operations it
finances. These will include cross-country workshops of staff from IDA and from participating countries,
which will bring together project preparation/management teams from the first six or seven countries
involved in the program to learn from one another. This will be followed up by further such meetings as
additional countries join the program. The AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica) will also
conduct regular pre- and post-mission briefings and debriefings of the teams that work on preparation and
supervision and collect feedback from the monitoring and evaluation systems of the operations. The
mnidterm review of the MAP will also provide an opportunity to consolidate cross-country learning. The
lessons of experience will be disseminated regularly by ACTafrica to the task teams, as well as to a wider
audience through the IPAA, and the UNAIDS knowledge management and best practice system.
Specific country programs
30.  The first two countries seeking support under Phase 1 of the MAP are Ethiopia and Kenya. Several
other Sub-Saharan African countries have begun developing programs under Phase 1, and will come
forward in the next several months. Annex 2 provides an overview of the countries in relation to the
eligibility criteria.



17
31.  Ethiopia and Kenya have met the eligibility criteria for accessing funds under the MAP. Both
countries have adopted far-reaching policies for national mobilization to fight the worsening situation of
the epidemic. Both have recently developed comprehensive multisectoral strategic plans for the medium
term, fully endorsed the principle of public/private partnerships to implement the national strategies, and
established national HIV/AIDS councils and secretariats at the highest level of government to assume
overall program coordination. Both have created an emergency HIV/AIDS fund to provide grants to local
communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community-based organizations (CBOs) and the
private sector, and have agreed to autonomous management of the fund.
32.  The proposed program for Ethiopia under the MAP would finance a US$63.4 million three-year
slice of the Government's 2000-2004 HIV/AIDS strategic plan. The program includes support for
capacity building for government agencies and civil society and the financing of prevention, care, and
treatment activities to expand the public multisectoral response as well as the participation of civil society
and communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS. A detailed program description and implementation
arrangement is provided in Annex 6.
33.  The Kenya program is designed to facilitate the launch of an expanded and intensified response to
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Five priority areas have been identified for support under the MAP for a total
financing of US$52.4 million. They include prevention and advocacy, treatment and support of the
continuum of care for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS, management and coordination,
mitigation of social impact and research, and monitoring and evaluation. These priorities have been
grouped into three project components covering support to line ministries, coordination of program and
project activities, and support to implementation of initiatives from civil society, private sector, and
research institutions. A full description of the project is provided in Annex 7.
MAP activities in special situations: sub-regional programs, countries in arrears or conflict
34.  Vital as they are, working through country operations alone will leave two gaps in Africa's
response to HIV/AIDS: sub-regional activities; and countries in conflict, or in arrears to IDA. HIV
travels beyond national borders through trade, tourism, migration, armed forces, and refugees. The
strongest cross-border externalities arise among countries that are intensively linked via trade, migrant
labor movements, and warfare. It is therefore important to build effective sub-regional programs that can
address externalities across borders and in entire sub-regions. In addition, regional and sub-regional
programs can achieve economies of scale for highly specialized activities associated with various national
HIV/AIDS programs. Examples include encouraging behavior change among truckers and temporary
migrants, including the distribution of condoms; strengthening of sub-regional technical institutions and
resources for supporting country HIV/AIDS programs, training, policy analysis, research, monitoring and
evaluation, and information exchange.
35.  With respect to activities in many conflict countries, there is no or only rudimentary government
capacity to plan, coordinate and execute a national HIV/AIDS program. However, it is precisely in such
countries that movements of armed forces, refugees, and demobilized soldiers create a particularly high
threat of rapid spread of HIV. Ways must be found to contain the spread of HIV and provide minimal
care and support activities to the affected populations. This is not only necessary for the benefit of the
affected populations, but also to contain adverse spill-over effects into neighboring countries which arise
from the mobility of refugee populations, combatants, and ex-combatants. Two difficulties must be
overcome for IDA to be able to support the fight against HIV/AIDS in these countries: First, IDA must
find a way to work with organizations other than the government which have an operational capability in
these countries, and which could add HIV/AIIDS components to their ongoing programs; second, many of



18
the conflict and post-conflict countries are in non-accrual status. It will therefore be impossible to use the
normal approach of making loan/credit to the country (or countries) involved.
36.  Because of the externalities involved in such activities, individual countries are unlikely to be
willing to use IDA or IBRD loans. In both subregional activities and countries in conflict or arrears,
some grant funding may be necessary.
1.   Project components (see Annexes 6 and 7 for detailed country project descriptions
and cost breakdowns):
37.  The components of the individual projects will depend on country circumstances. The following
table provides, as illustrative cases, the component and cost breakdown for the Ethiopia and Kenya
projects. These may be taken as indicative of the types of components many country programs will
comprise, although some may vary according to the state of the epidemic, the nature of the national
HIV/AIDS strategy, and local capacity.
Kenya: AIDS Disaster Response Project
Project Costs and IDA Financing
Components                              Indicative     % of Total   IDA           % of Total IDA
Costs                      Financing      Financing
US$ million                 US$ million
A. Improving and expanding government   10.3           20           9.5            19
multi-sectoral interventions
B. Establishing AIDS program management   12.1         23           10.5           21
institutions and enhancing implementation
capacity of all participating agencies
C. Expanding and funding the capacity in the  30.0     57           30.0          60
delivery of prevention, care, and support
services by NGOs, etc.
Total project costs                     52.4           100.0        50.0           100
Ethiopia: Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
Project Costs and IDA Financing
Components                              Indicative     % of Total   IDA           % of IDA
Costs                       Financing     Financing
US$ million                 US$ million
A. Capacity building for government      8.8            14           7.6          13
agencies and civil society
B. Expand government multi-sectoral     19.7            31          19.0          32
response
C. Emergency HIV/AIDS grant fund        28.1            44          26.4          44
D. Project coordination                  6.8            11           6.7          11
Total project costs                     63.4           100          59.7          100



19
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the program:
38.  The MAP is a multisectoral operation that does not intend to address long-term sectoral and
institutional reforms within any one sector, or to include conditionalities linked to macroeconomic or
sectoral policies. Institutional reform will be sought in the area of H1V/AIDS coordination at the national
level, namely through activities such as:
*    The staffing of the national HIV/AIDS council, its secretariat, and, where appropriate, PCU;
*    The adoption of national strategic plans;
*    The establishment of financial mechanisms for channeling resources to the community level; and
*   The establishment of sound monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.
39.  The MAP will also finance studies and other initiatives to enhance countries' preparedness to
manage the evolution of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and its impact in the long term. Analytical work would
be conducted to evaluate existing frameworks at regular intervals to ensure their compatibility with the
evolving status of the epidemic.
3.   Benefits and target population:
40.  Phase 1 of the MAP would provide prevention, care, support and treatment to an estimated eight
countries comprising about 280 million people. On those bases, the program would produce the
following benefits:
* First, the population at large will benefit directly from avoidance of HIV infection and AIDS, and
from better access to treatment, care, support and mitigation activities supported by the program. In
particular,
*  Lower income groups will benefit from community-based assistance to households taking care
of AIDS patients and orphans
* Communities will be better able to plan and manage their own response to the epidemic
* People living with HIV/AIDS will benefit from reduced stigma and improvements in their
human rights, from improved care at home, in their communities, and in health centers and
hospitals, and therefore from prolonged and healthier lives
* Women and youth will benefit disproportionately from targeted interventions to improve their
awareness of the disease and empower them to protect themselves
* Commercial sex workers, men having sex with men, intravenous drug users, and people in
correctional institutions will similarly be able to better protect themselves, and benefit from
reduced stigma and improved human rights
*  Second, the MAP would sharply reduce new infections, especially among young people, and
therefore have a vast impact on future suffering and premature deaths. In total, the implementation of
the first phase of the MAP would prevent an estimated 6.7 million AIDS-related deaths over a twenty
year period.
*  Third, the reduction in mortality will greatly reduce the future costs of care, treatment, mitigation and
orphan care, thereby allowing governments to allocate the resulting budgetary savings to investment.
Both the increased investment and larger labor force made possible by the fall in AIDS-related deaths
will substantially increase total output.



20
Because of these substantial economic benefits, the prevention, treatment, and care of HIV/AIDS
constitute a highly productive investment with an estimated internal rate of return of about 30 percent (see
Annex 5).
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional and implementation arrangements
41.  In order to respond rapidly to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, countries need to adopt implementation
approaches on the basis of contracts and results on the ground. Sub-project financing is one of the
approaches that has been used successfully in social funds and community-driven development programs.
Though implementation arrangements may vary from country to country, their design would follow
similar principles. A typical successful national HIV/AIDS program would include all or most of the
following implementation arrangements:
*    A coordinating body at the highest level of government with participation from sector ministries,
PLWHA, youth and women, and from other civil society groups and the private sector. Such a
body would usually define the national H1W/AIDS strategy, policies, and broad implementation
arrangements, and oversee national program elaboration and implementation.
*    An administrative/technical group reporting to the coordination body for management and
coordination of program design, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation.
*    Sub-programs and sub-projects designed and executed by a range of organizations at community,
local, district, or municipal levels.
HIV/AIDS coordination committees at regional and local levels, which would have a composition
similar to that of the national coordination body. These committees would promote, facilitate,
approve, and supervise the sub-programs and sub-projects of the executing organizations at their
local level.
*    Sub-programs and sub-projects executed by civil society and private sector organizations (national
and regional contractors), with capacity to operate at the national or broad regional levels, as
facilitators and trainers, in providing special services such as auditing, ensuring a safe blood supply,
condom distribution, or in serving special populations such as street children, men having sex with
men, and intravenous drug users.
*    Sub-programs and sub-projects executed by entities of the national government (sectors and
institutions), such as the national health service, education, or the military; and of institutions
managed by the sectors.
42.  The national HIV/AIDS programs would have to be able to finance any of the sub-programs or
sub-projects of these different classes of executing agencies. Financing can be achieved in a number of
ways:
(a)  Via budget allocations for H1V/AIDS to each of the different actors involved, i.e., the local
governments for their HIV/AIDS committees, government ministries and institutions, and the
national HIV/AIDS council. The Government would then have to engage contractors from private
sector enterprises and NGOs for the sub-programs executed by them.



21
(b)  Via disbuisement from an HIV/AlDS fund (such as a Social Fund) with separate windows to
provide flexible financial resources for the different classes of actors and programs.
(c)  A combination of (a) and (b).
43. Under option (a!, IDA would verify that the appropriate budget allocations for all entities have
becn made and disbursed at the end of each year. In addition, IDA would have to be satisfied that the
governmental and intergovernmental resource transfer procedures have the capacity to ensure
transparency and accountability for the use of the funds, and to provide for a capacity-building program to
make further improvements to these national-level procedures.
44.  Option (bE is widely used in IDA operations and requires no special comment. However, there are
only a few counIries in Africa with the decentralized government structures and the necessary
intergovernmental fiscal transfer system that would allow for efficient management of the fund within the
existing government system. Outsourcing of financial management of the fund to a private firm should
therefore be considered at the appraisal stage of country projects.
45.  Option -C . In many cases it may be necessary or desirable to combine both the above
disbursement anrangements. For example, a national HIV/AIDS program may rely on a fund (option b)
for the financing of the local committees and functions contracted to the private sector and NGOs, while
sectoral agencies may receive funding allocated for their HIV/AIDS programs as part of the regular
budget process (option a).
Project coordination and management
46.  In each country, overall project coordination will be set up in the secretariat of the national
HIV/AIDS couricil or such other high-level entity as mandated by government. A decentralized project
coordination system will be established by each participating ministry and private sector organization to
coordinate and monitor implementation progress at all levels, according to agreed-upon performnance
indicators. Project coordination units (where they exist) will report to the national secretariat. Where
necessary, the project will finance the contracting of a financial management firm for the duration of the
project, for administration and management of funds. In each country, sub-project review committees
will be set up to recommend the selection of proposed community-, district-, provincial-, and national-
level initiatives for financing under the credit. The committees will consist of representatives of relevant
sector ministries involved in the project as well as representatives from the private sector and civil
society, including PLWHA and specific target groups such as youth and women.
Project implementation
47.  In each country, each public sector project component will be implemented by the respective line
ministry responsible for that component. For private sector and community-based initiatives,
implementation will be done by NGOs, CBOs, local governments, and any other participating civil
society entity. For some institutional strengthening, research, and monitoring and evaluation components,
implementatior arrangements may be devolved to the national HIV/AIDS council or secretariat. In each
country, the project implementing units will prepare a project implementation manual delineating the
project activities and implementation arrangements, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, financial
management systems, and control procedures, including financial and progress reporting requirements.
Guidelines for such manuals have been developed and are available in the project files.



22
Financial management
48.  Implementation approaches need to ensure the timely and reliable flow of funds to the
implementing organizations at all levels. Slow disbursement and inadequate resources for communities
have been two of the biggest roadblocks to the response to HIV/AIDS in Africa. Under the MAP, if a
country's existing systems do not facilitate timely flow of funds directly to implementing entities, the
implementation approach may include the outsourcing of financial management and disbursement of
funds to the implementing entities. This approach will facilitate immediate disbursement of funds to sub-
programs and sub-projects rather than delaying disbursements until the development and implementation
of a government system that can achieve this same objective. During the period of outsourcing, countries
will be encouraged to develop (a) their own methods for timely and effective flow of funds to
implementing entities; and (b) the capacity to implement such systems. The MAP will support these
initiatives.
49.  Sub-project financing has been used successfully in social funds and community-driven
development programs. Though implementation arrangements may vary from country to country, the key
principles the MAP will observe are as follows:
*    appraisal and approval of projects on a decentralized basis (e.g., a tiered approach with small
projects approved at the local level, larger projects approved at the provincial or district level, and
the largest projects approved at the national level);
*    inclusion of in-kind contributions from participating local and community organizations;
*    direct flow of funds from the project coordination unit to the implementing entities based on an
agreed-upon tranche schedule;
*    facilitation, monitoring, coordination, and capacity building at the local and community level by
intermediary organizations (both NGOs and private sector firms);
*    regular, integrated reporting on physical progress and financial results;
*    review and approval of integrated reports prior to disbursement of the next tranche and/or approval
of additional sub-projects;
*    annual independent external audits of community and local implementing entities on a random
sample basis; in addition, all implementing entities receiving larger grants (e.g., greater than 54
*    annual independent external technical and process audits of community and local implementing
entities on a random sample basis; and
*    transparency and accountability to final beneficiaries at the local level, including publication in
local language of the project-funded activities: the name of the implementing entity, amount of the
grant, description of the activities, reports on the progress of activities, and audit reports.
50.  An integrated approach to monitoring the financial and physical progress of the project will be an
essential element in ensuring that the project funds are being used for the intended purposes and are being
directed towards the activities and implementing entities that are actually producing results. To this end,
reporting formats will be simple and focused on both physical progress and financial results; interim
reports will be required to be reviewed before additional funds are disbursed to the implementing entities.
Procurement
51.  IDA will finance goods, civil works, consultancies, training, and other local activities necessary to
implement the program. Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, Section 3.15,
Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA



23
will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
52.  In terms of procurement, the program participants can be classified into two main groups: (a) the
service delivery arms of government at the federal, regional, zonal, and local government levels; and (b)
grassroots community organizations, NGOs, and private sector organizations. Under group (a), the
structure will be based on a centralized procurement operation within the national AIDS council using the
Bank's Standard Procurement Guidelines and Procedures. Group (b) will have a decentralized
procurement process using the Bank's simplified Procurement & Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments.
53.  Given the urgency of the program, and to facilitate speedy procurement of items required urgently
during the first 12 months, some of the critical requirements could be obtained on a fast track basis. For
example: (i) drugs, condoms, and the like could be obtained directly from United Nations agencies
(UNFPA, WHO); (ii) immediate requirement of vehicles specifically for the program could be acquired
from IAPSO or by local shopping (preferably ex-bonded warehouses on a competitive basis); and (iii)
furniture for coordinating offices could be procured through local shopping. In addition, where feasible,
procurement agents could be used, including UNFPA for procurement and distribution of condoms, and
possibly other United Nations agencies for procurement and distribution of drugs.
54.  All procurement actions will follow standard IDA procurement Guidelines and annual General
Procurement Notices (GPN) will be prepared for the project and published in United Nations
Development Business.
55.  Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or
more. In cases of consolidated procurement of goods by the central coordinating agency (both national
and international), where the end users are spread in different geographical locations and there is adequate
procurement/contracting capacity at the central coordinating agency, the Borrower may consider a central
contracting system acceptable to IDA whereby through structured Bidding Documents and central
contract monitoring procedures the end users will be responsible for ordering and receiving the goods
directly from the suppliers. There are high risks involved with respect to actual monitoring and
implementation of such a process and careful consideration will be given to all details (including capacity
of the end users to raise orders based on the central contracting information) before any such system is
adopted.
56.  The institutional procurement arrangements for each country will be based on the individual
procurement capacity assessment carried out for each country; country-specific action plans will be
developed, including prior and post review thresholds. Procurement Plans will be developed for the first
year of program operations based on the specific country work programs.
Disbursement
57.  Specific disbursement procedures will be developed for each country based on the particular
situation and design of the country project, taking into consideration IDA's disbursement policies and
procedures. The key considerations for the disbursement procedures will be: (a) a link between physical
progress and project expenditures; (b) the need for a sufficient balance in the Special Account for
decentralized and emergency activities; and (c) an efficient and effective flow of funds to meet the needs
of the project during a relatively short implementation period. Where appropriate capacity exists, the use
of Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement will be encouraged to facilitate the
disbursement process, provide adequate funds in the Special Account, and ensure close monitoring of the



24
link between physical progress and expenditures. In other cases, traditional disbursement procedures will
be used until there is sufficient capacity to convert to PMR-based disbursement.
Supervision and auditing requirement
58.  Because of their scope, speed, and use of innovative instruments, operations under the MAP will
require intensive supervision. Accordingly, supervision budgets for MAP programs will be considerably
larger than the norm. Local staff will be involved in every MAP-supported operation and will provide
continual support and supervision at the country level. Staff from the key fiduciary areas will be
permanent members of supervision teams and provide close support, especially in the critical first year of
implementation. Supervision will be conducted jointly with other supporting partners and local UNAIDS
representatives. Each operation will include frequent workshops and stocktaking exercises to ensure
ongoing learning-by-doing. As the number of countries under the MAP grows, cross-country sessions
will also be held to exchange lessons.
59.  Projects will be subject to the standard IDA audit requirements, including submission of audit
reports within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The selected independent auditor, acceptable to
IDA, will need to have expertise in auditing a complex entity operating in a decentralized environment.
Monitoring and evaluation (see Annex 4)
60.  Responding effectively to H1V/AIDS requires sustained and extensive monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) of a broad range of measures. In most countries, M&E systems are weak and do not make
adequate use of the data already available from a variety of local sources. The MAP will invest
substantially in establishing or strengthening M&E capacity and a process of stakeholder and beneficiary
assessments. This will permit activity and service reformulation based on lessons learned. A more
complete discussion appears in Annex 4.
61.  In particular, the MAP will support countries in adopting the principles of "second generation"
HIV surveillance recently developed by WHO and UNAIDS. This approach tailors the use of data to the
specifics of each country. It combines biomedical and behavioral surveillance and draws on data from a
wide variety of local sources. Monitoring and evaluation of the HIV/AIDS programs funded under the
MAP will be unique in a number of respects:
*    The three year programs will provide more information on inputs, process, and outputs than on
outcomes and impacts, which are longer term;
*    Early indicators on program effectiveness and beneficiary receptivity will be needed in real time to
improve service delivery;
*    The MAP emphasis on multisectoral approaches and multiple implementation channels will require
more monitoring and evaluation at the micro level;
*    The commitment to beneficiary and stakeholder involvement and changing behavior of different
groups will be enhanced if the M&E systems are complemented by a permanent process of social
impact monitoring;
*    The M&E system will be organized as a management tool for all concerned stakeholders and
established on a network basis for better permit sharing of lessons learned.



25
Midterm review
62.  Given the innovative nature of the MAP, its emphasis on learning-by-doing, and its long-term
horizon, a joint midterm review will be carried out 21 months into the program. To ensure independence
and broad ownership of the results, the review will be conducted jointly by IDA, UNAIDS, at least one
partner NGO, client representatives, and staff from OED. The review will produce feedback for three
purposes:
*    To guide fine-tuning of program design and lessons for future country participants;
*    To lay the groundwork for the second phase of the MAP; and
*    As a guide toward using a multi-country approach for similar situations with regional dimensions
and sharing the experience with other partners.
63.  The outcome of the review will be presented to the Executive Directors for discussion, and
disseminated widely to countries, partners, and all other interested stakeholders. Regional workshops will
also be held to discuss the findings and their implications with all participating countries.
D. PROGRAM RATIONALE
Rationale for IDA involvement:
64.  Helping African countries reverse the trend of the epidemic and intensify actions to mitigate its
impact is a cornerstone of the Bank's Africa Region strategic plan against H1V/AIDS (Intensifying Action
against HIV/AIDS in Africa, 1999) and will be pivotal both to Africa's human development goals and its
overall development prospects. The Bank has placed HIV/AIDS at the center of its development agenda
in Africa and has mainstreamed it in all aspects of its work in the Region. The Region's AIDS strategy
offers a comprehensive framework for a wide range of possibilities to consolidate and expand successful
HIV/AIDS interventions.
65.  Expanding its H1V/AIDS response is also an institutional and partnership commitment by the
Bank. As a founding member of the IPAA, the Bank has joined a coalition with the other UNAIDS
cosponsors, governments, multilateral organizations, bilateral agencies, and private corporations and
committed to invest greater resources in response to the growing dimensions of the epidemic in Africa.
The overarching goal of the IPAA is to curtail the spread of HIV and to reduce its impact on human
suffering and development. In both international and regional settings, IPAA has brought to the fore the
need for an expanded response and for more resources to HIV/AIDS programs in Africa. The support the
MAP will provide to national and sub-regional HIV/AIDS programs will be an important component of
the Bank's contribution to the IPAA.
66.  The increased focus on HIV/AIDS is also part of the Bank's emerging approach to combating
communicable diseases. The Bank is playing a rapidly growing role in bringing into country policies the
importance of HIV/AIDS in addressing opportunistic diseases such as STIs and TB. The Bank has also
pioneered financing of communicable disease prevention in many African countries and has developed
valuable global experience in supporting emergency projects involving coordinated responses and
partnerships with governments, donors, NGOs, and communities.



26
1.   Program alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
67.  Sector investment operations for individual countries and a "vertical" APL for Africa, in
combination with the "horizontal" APL proposed, were two alternatives considered and rejected.
68.  While SILs have been effective instruments generally, in this specific case, processing a series of
country SJLs over several years would not take advantage of economies of scale within the Bank that
could be realized through the development of templates for components and common processing
procedures. Moreover, the emphasis in the MAP on expanding existing programs and building additional
implementation capacity once a government has an overall HIV/AIDS strategy in place is more
appropriate for programmatic rather than investment lending, in view of the emergency nature of the
situation.
69.  "Vertical" APLs were also considered. However, adding a vertical dimension to a horizontal APL
would make it difficult to implement and monitor. Success against HIV/AIDS requires speed, simplicity
and diversity. The complex, long-term, institution-building approach and detailed design of sequenced
phases and triggers associated with a "vertical" APL would not facilitate intensifying existing HIV/AIDS
programs rapidly, and the use of emergency Bank procedures where possible. Rapid processing requires
flexibility in design and streamlining in preparation within the bounds allowed by BP10.00 drawing,
where appropriate, from the procedural provisions of BP8.50 on emergency lending.
2.   Lessons learned and reflected in the program design:
70.  Lessons drawn from two decades of global experience with the epidemic, including prior IDA-
supported HIV/AIDS projects, have shown that the behavior change needed to prevent HIV transmission
and deal with the consequences of the epidemic cannot be achieved without involving local communities
in a deeply participatory diagnosis of the risks they face, including the root causes of vulnerability such as
gender discrimination and poverty. Moreover, behavior change and reduction in denial and stigma cannot
be achieved through prevention activities alone, but also require support and care for those infected with
HIV/AIDS, their families, and the surviving families and orphans. Significant social and economic policy
adjustments, including the strengthening of social safety nets for the most vulnerable, must complement
these efforts.
71.  A highly decentralized, participatory, and community-based approach to implementation of the
multi-sectoral program is therefore needed. At subnational levels, local govemment, communities,
NGOs, and the private sector all need to be involved. Expanded responses in the education, military,
health, agriculture, and communication sectors must facilitate, support, and complement these local
responses.
72.  Prior experience indicates that best practice in political and social action-in a multi-dimensional
approach-hinges on both government commitment and community responsiveness. Experience in
countries such as Uganda, Senegal, and Thailand clearly shows that the rate of new infections can be
reduced when governments adopt appropriate policies, commit their political prestige and financial
resources, involve civil society fully, and place emphasis on activities in a range of sectors.
73.  The program is also consistent with experience gained under Bank operations in natural disaster
management and emergency recovery in post-conflict situations. These have demonstrated that in order
to succeed, implementation processes and arrangements must be simple and flexible to permit the rapid
execution at the required scale. These types of programs should not be burdened with conditions and
should rely extensively on implementing agents for execution. Operations must also allow for change and



27
adaptation as activities are implemented and yield more information. Key lessons also indicate the need
for early involvement, by the Bank and concerned parties, in assessing priorities and defining effective
response strategies. Specific implications of these lessons, all of which have been incorporated in the
MAP, are as follows:
*    The operating procedures and incentive systems must be designed to link the activities of the
individual actors to the national objectives and desired results and outcomes;
*    The tools to be used to achieve the desired outcomes must include facilitation and training for the
various actors, clear operating manuals under which they will operate, incentives and penalties
(especially performance-based renewal and increases of contracts and financial allocations),
effective fiduciary controls, and careful monitoring and evaluation of the program, its components,
and the results;
*    The large number of local (or sectoral/institutional) HIV/AIDS committees must be able to access
training on HIW/AIDS, in best practices of prevention, care, and orphan support, how to rapidly
diagnose their localisectoral conditions, and how to design simple programs that reflect their special
conditions and support national program goals. They should then be given the resources to
implement their first programs in a learning-by-doing mode.
*    The committees and other actors must also be informed of the criteria that will be used to review
their proposals and evaluate their performance, and that will guide performance-based allocation of
resources to them;
-    The large-scale training program will require mobilization of HIV/AIDS specialists from public and
private sector entities as well as NGOs and PLWHA;
3.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
74.  African countries have urged IDA in various fora to support their immediate needs for stepping up
the response to HIW/AIDS. African governments have recently increased their commitment to rapid
implementation of prevention, care, and treatment and marked significant progress in establishing
national multisectoral HIV/AIDS programs and adopting comprehensive nationwide strategic plans.
Following a commitment by IDA to create the MAP, several governments have indicated their strong
interest in participating in the program. The very rapid preparation of projects in Ethiopia and Kenya was
possible because of the strong policy framework and strategic plans already developed through a broad
participatory process. Both governments also committed to allocate half or more of the respective credits
as direct grants to communities, which is one of the most important factors in ownership of HIV/AIDS
programs. Borrower commitment will continue to be assessed case-by-case as part of the eligibility
criteria to access the MAP, but at a regional level both commitment and ownership are manifest and
provide a reasonable basis to proceed.
4.   Value added of IDA support in this program:
75.  No single government or agency can overcome HIV/AIDS alone. A vast, concerted effort is
required both at national and international levels. That is the insight that guided the creation of UNAIDS,
the establishment of the IPAA, and the move toward a pluralistic, multisectoral approach. Although
agencies such as UNICEF and WHO will continue to set the overall technical parameters for HIV/AIDS,
IDA has a number of comparative advantages that are critical to the success of these partnerships. First,
no other external actor has the global knowledge and policy influence of IDA on the overall development
agenda. This influence has proven central in helping to elevate HIV/AIDS beyond the health sector to a
fundamental development issue, and to ensure the necessary visibility in discussion of national planning,
poverty- reduction strategies, and debt-reduction programs. Second, IDA has experience in virtually all



28
sectors and can therefore work effectively in supporting a multisectoral response. Assisting sectors to
plan for the impact of AIDS will be one of the most important tasks of the next few years. Third, IDA's
long experience with implementation will be instrumental in helping to balance speed with accountability.
Fourth, IDA involvement is essential to bridging the resource gap. Current annual investment on
HIV/AIDS in Africa is only a fraction of the estimated US$3 billion needed to fund comprehensive
programs. Both through its own resources and its convening and leveraging power, IDA can make a
significant contribution to filling this gap, primarily on a country-by-country basis.
E. SUMMARY PROGRAM ANALYSIS
1.   Economic (see Annex 5):
76.  For illustrative purposes, it was assumed that some eight representative African countries
(including Ethiopia and Kenya) would have access to the financing provided by the MAP. These
countries include some 280 million people, just under half of Sub-Saharan Africa's population. The cost
of implementing comprehensive, national HIV/AIDS programs in full in these countries was estimated at
US$575 million per year.
77.  If such nationwide scale could be achieved quickly, the MAP would help reduce the HIV
prevalence rate in these countries from 7.9 percent in 1999 to 5.6 percent over ten years and below 4
percent over 15 years. The driving force would be the reduction by half in the number of new HIV
infections among 15-24 year-olds over the next decade. This is an ambitious but achievable goal that has
been met in some parts of Uganda and Zambia in the 1990s. For the rest of the adult population, new
HIV infections would decrease in a similar fashion, but because of the stock of existing HIV infections,
the adult HIV prevalence rate would fall by only 25 percent over ten years period. (Taking the
counterfactual case in which effective national programs are not mounted, the HIV epidemic would
continue to spread. As a conservative assumption, the HIV prevalence rate was projected to increase
from 7.9 percent in 1999 to 10 percent by 2003 and remain at that level indefinitely thereafter.)
78.  The economic benefits would be manifold. The fall in new HIV infections would reduce the
number of new AIDS cases. Over the next 20 years, some 6.7 million adult deaths would be averted. In
economic terms, this would result in lower costs of treatment and care of HIV/AIDS patients, which
would offset part of the MAP costs. The macroeconomic benefits, while intuitively compelling, are
difficult to quantify. Data constraints and the wide variety of ways through which the epidemic affects
development limit the types of analysis that can be done. Cross-country analysis has produced estimates
broadly consistent with those of other methods, but the limitations of this approach should be borne in
mind. That said, on the basis of existing evidence as discussed in Annex 5, the fall in the HIV prevalence
rate would likely increase the growth rate of GDP per capita. In addition, the reduction in AIDS-related
deaths would increase labor force growth, further raising GDP growth. In total, the rate of growth of
GDP would increase gradually by about 0.2 percentage points per year in 2007-2015 and 0.5 percentage
points afterwards. Calculating the net economic benefits that would result from the combination of output
increase and the different assumptions concerning costs is necessarily speculative. The estimated internal
rate of return is, however, quite similar under the two cost assumptions, at around 30 percent.
2.   Financial:
NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Not applicable



29
Fiscal Impact
79.  For each of the physical works components, the operation and maintenance costs will be calculated
and a commitment required from government to finance and carry out effective O&M on an annual basis.
An annual review of O&M for physical works will be carried out three months prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year.
3.   Technical:
80.  The MAP follows intemationally accepted best practice for HIV/AIDS responses, as validated by
UNAIDS. Each country program will tailor the general principles to the country context and will follow
current accepted best practices in technical standards for health infrastructure, especially the handling of
medical equipment and supplies and the disposal of medical waste in order to minimize environmental
impact. Line ministries will be involved in the preparation of components to ensure their consistency
with national technical standards. Training will be provided as required to address the handling and
disposal of medical equipment, supplies, and waste technology.
4.   Institutional:
81.  Implementing agencies: Because individual country projects are multisectoral, each sector
ministry and other implementing agency will be in charge of implementing its own components of the
projects in consultation with the national HIV/AIDS programs. Technical ministries, NGOs, and other
private sector organizations have been actively involved in the preparation of projects, ensuring their
consistency with the national HIV/AIDS strategic plans. Technical assistance will be provided to line
ministries and other participating organizations on an as-needed basis (mainly for strategic planning,
financial management, procurement, and the recruitment of consultants in specialized areas). Because the
capacity of some of the implementing agencies must be strengthened, projects will require government
commitment of resources and staff for some of the implementing entities, while the IDA credit will
finance some equipment and technical assistance.
82. Project Management: Project coordination and management will be set up in the secretariat of
the national HIV/AIIDS program or at any other higher-level entity mandated by government to coordinate
and monitor the national HIV/IAIDS strategy. Sub-project coordinators will be assigned by each
participating ministry or private sector organization to coordinate and monitor implementation progress
according to agreed-upon performance indicators and to report to the national council secretariat. Where
necessary, the project will finance the contracting of a financial management firm for the duration of the
project for administration and management of the funds. In each country, sub-project review committees
will be set up to recomrnend the selection of proposed community-, district-, provincial-, or national-level
initiatives for financing under the IDA Credit. The committees will consist of representatives of relevant
ministries involved in the project as well as representatives from the private sector and civil society
including representatives of PLWHA and specific target groups such as youth and women.
5.   Social:
83.  The MAP is expected to have a very positive social impact by assisting and empowering people
and institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV/AIDS epidemic. MAP activities will deal with a
broad and sensitive range of social issues concerning HIV/AIDS. Opposition may arise to providing
assistance and empowerment to vulnerable groups such as youth and women, and especially socially
marginalized groups such as intravenous drug users, men having sex with men, and inmates of



30
correctional institutions. Moreover, PLWHA and their families face continued violations of their
economic and human rights. Individual country projects will therefore put in place a process of
permanent social impact monitoring to take account of and correct for social issues that may arise during
implementation.
6.   Environmental:
84.  Environmental Category: C (Not Required). It is expected that the program activities
would not generate any adverse environmental effects. For each participating country, guidelines will be
prepared as part of the procedural manual to ensure that enviromnental considerations are taken into
account in the selection and design of project activities. The key environmental risk relates to
inappropriate handling, poor disposal methods and inadequate management of the disposal sites for
medical waste in urban and peri-urban areas where domestic and medical waste are mixed, and where
scavenging is a livelihood. Capacity to deal with this risk needs to be built at the central, district and
municipal council level, and NGOs, CBOs and neighborhood groups have to be provided with training
through the HIV/AIDS programs. The operating manuals of the country projects under the MAP will
include guidelines for a corresponding training program and mitigation measures. In addition, the Africa
Safeguard Policies Enhancement Team will ensure that environmental assessment of urban environment
and infrastructure projects routinely cover this aspect so that coverage is broader than what is provided in
the projects supported under the MAP.
7.   Participatory approach:
85.  The MAP approach was developed following a long process of consultation with key community,
national, and international stakeholders led by UNAIDS and its cosponsors. Those consultations resulted
in a consensus that the existing HIV/AIDS programs in Sub-Saharan Africa were having insufficient
impact overall and needed to be scaled up and intensified through multisectoral approaches using a
variety of implementation channels and the full spectrum of stakeholders. The proposed country projects
have been established with different degrees of participation among national, regional, and local
stakeholders, but one of the key goals under the MAP will be to mainstream participation and provide
substantial resources to community-based organizations founded on participatory principles (ownership,
transparency, accountability).
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1.   Sustainability:
86.  The sustainability of the program would largely depend on the degree of ownership of this
initiative by the various concerned entities at national, regional, and local levels, their implementation
capacity, their ability to organize for specific sub-project activities, and the reliability of their access to
funds. The process at the community level would be demand-driven; sustainability at that level will be
promoted by targeting priorities identified by the beneficiary population group. In addition, the focus of
some of the project activities on training and capacity building will further enhance the sustainability of
local sub-projects.



31
2.   Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex IA):
On the country side
87.  The MAP is a high-risk undertaking. For 20 years, AIDS has thrived on denial, stigma, insufficient
capacity, and ineffective implementation. Although some progress is being made in these areas, these
conditions still prevail to various degrees in the majority of African countries and could easily impede
execution of the program. The most serious risks are that implementation will be slow and coverage
inadequate. There is also considerable fiduciary risk arising from the use of new financial mechanisms
and myriad implementing agencies. Because the pace of the epidemic does not allow the luxury of
overcoming these problems before taking action, they will need to be addressed in most cases as part of
implementation.
88. To bring the risks within tolerable limits, the MAP has built in multiple, redundant safeguards at
each stage. It must be recognized that overcorrecting for either implementation or fiduciary risk could
jeopardize program effectiveness. On the one hand, moving too quickly could create unmanageable
fiduciary and implementation problems. On the other hand, insisting on airtight fiduciary procedures
would hamper implementation to a disabling degree. Consequently, the MAP has struck a balance
between flexibility and accountability. The program has explicitly traded off time-consuming ex ante
programming and centralized controls for empowerment of local agents, end-user accountability, and
flexibility. While specific safeguards will be adapted to each country circumstance as appropriate, they
will all follow these general lines:
89.  Design. MAP programs will be designed with broad participation, especially of PLWHA, to help
overcome denial and social exclusion and to bring replicable local successes to light. Both in process
and substance, program design will be informed by best practice and by lessons from other MAP-
supported countries, and will be supported by UNAIDS strategic planning specialists. Designs will pay
exhaustive attention to implementation and fiduciary issues-particularly to ensuring accountability in the
flow of funds-and will typically include a detailed first-year action plan to ensure a fast, strong start.
Designs will also be flexible and allow for frequent corrections as experience warrants.
90.  Implementation. To manage risk, MAP implementation will be structured around subsidiarity,
end-user accountability, subcontracting, flexibility, and transparency. The MAP will empower and
directly fund a wide range of actors, who will be accountable to stakeholders at the relevant level(s) for
implementation of agreed plans. Direct support to communities will increase coverage immediately and
help ensure culturally appropriate ways of overcoming social barriers. Allocations to local implementers
will be made commensurate with absorptive capacity. In most countries, financial flows to communities
will be briefly tested in a smaller number of districts and then expanded as soon as any blockages in
disbursements have been removed. Procedures will be simplified and streamlined both by countries and
on the part of IDA. Each program will include a significant capacity-building component to strengthen
implementing agencies (whether public or private) wherever necessary. Key responsibilities such as
accounting, disbursement, auditing, procurement, and training will be outsourced as necessary.
Accountability of all actors will be enforced through performance-based replenishments.
91. Supervision. In its design, ambition, and scope, the MAP is virtually without precedent. Country
programs will build quickly toward nationwide coverage and involve actors at all levels from individual
villages to central ministries. Because of the elevated risk and the capacious span of these programs, IDA
supervision will need to be more intensive than for regular projects. Supervision budgets will be
considerably larger than the norm. Country office staff will be involved in every MAP operation and
provide continual support at the country level. Supervision will be conducted jointly with other



32
supporting partners. Each program will include frequent workshops and stocktaking exercises and, as the
number of countries under the MAP grows, cross-country sessions to exchange experiences. All large-
scale executing agencies will be audited regularly. Local agencies will be audited on a random basis both
for technical and financial performance, and the results published.
92. Monitoring and Evaluation. The MAP will devote special attention to strengthening M&E
systems and to generating early and regular information on program outputs, impact, and the progress of
the epidemic. Monitoring will follow the principles of "second generation" HMIV surveillance recently
developed by WHO and UNAIDS. This approach tailors the use of data to the specifics of each country.
It combines biomedical and behavioral surveillance and draws on data from a wide variety of local
sources. It closely tracks risk behavior, STI rates among youth, and at-risk sub-populations, which are all
important leading indicators that can provide early warnings and improve program effectiveness: The
MAP will dedicate an uncommonly large share of resources to M&E--on the order of five to ten percent
of total program costs in each country. The joint midterm review will also provide an independent
assessment of the effects of the MAP and an opportunity to make indicated corrections.
93. The MAP is designed to foster learning by doing. It must be expected that mistakes will be made.
The cost of such mistakes will be contained, tightly scrutinized, and progressively reduced as lessons
from experience guide midcourse corrections. But even with rigorous eligibility criteria and the above
provisions in place, a significant degree of residual risk will remain.
94.  The risk in being less ambitious or moving more cautiously, however, would be even greater.
Anything short of the innovative, comprehensive, and pluralistic approach in the MAP would be
powerless to overcome the deficiencies of scale and speed that have rendered Africa's efforts to date
catastrophically ineffective. The result would be a deeper entrenchment of HIV/AIDS where it has struck
hardest and a potential explosion in those countries that have so far escaped the worst. The MAP may
pose high risks, but compared to the alternatives it is the safest course of action available.



33
Risk                                             Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
S                      ACT Africa, in partnership with UNAIDS and country teams
Central and Regional Govemment, sector ministries and                    will continue to create demand and commitment at all levels,
community leaders may not honor their commitment to                      including the participatory development of comprehensive
participatory development and to the creation of an                      national HIV/AIDS strategies and action plans.
enabling environment for local responses to HIV/AIDS.                    The country eligibility criteria will eliminate countries with
inadequate commitment.
The decentralized and participatory implementation will help
sustain the political commitment.
The denial due to cultural, religious and other reasons    M             This will be addressed by developing and implementing programs
may prohibit countries from intensifying actions                         sub-programs and sub-projects in a fully transparent and
participatory manner. All these processes will include civil
society and in particular people living with HIV/AIDS.
From Components to Outputs
H                      The processes and documentation required for sub-programs and
Some countries, regions and districts may lack the                       subprojects will be simplified, and standardized.
capacity and resources needed to design, coordinate, and                 Program design will emphasizes capacity building through
evaluate their respective components of the                              massive training of executing entities and technical support at all
comprehensive programs.                                                  levels.
Decentralized implementation entities and communities   S                Rapid allocation of small resource envelopes will permit
may lack the capacity to propose and mange their sub-                    generalized learning by doing
programs and sub-projects                                                Performance based replenishment weeds out implementing
entities whose capacities are not improving
Use of simple procurement and disbursement procedures for
community-based investments will be used for a large part of the
program.
Slow disbursement of country operations:         H                       Where necessary, outsourcing of fund management and financial
reporting procedures and control will be agreed upon during
.   due to limited financial management capacity                         project preparation. And the necessary contracts initiated prior to
IDA credit effectiveness.
*   due to inadequate procurement procedures and                         A large part of the national programs will be implemented using
capacities                                                          the simple the simplified procedures for procurement and
disbursement for community-based investments
*   due to delays in appraisal and approval of sub-                      Standard small equipment and supplies needed in multiple
programs and sub-projects                                           locations will be procured via a central unit using a structured
contract whereby the deliveries to the end user will be based on
actual demand.
Appraisal and approval of intermediate and small sub-programs
and sub-projects will be decentralized to regional and local
coordinating committees, using the subsidiarity principle
These committees will be provided with training and
opportunities for learning by doing.
Poor intersectoral collaboration at national, regional and  H            Establishment of HrV/AIDS coordinating bodies and committees
local levels                                                             at national, regional and local levels will allow for coordination to
take place at the lowest possible level. Sectoral components will
be managed by sectoral HIV/AIDS committees
The highly decentralized implementation mechanisms    H                  Five sets of provisions have been built into the program design:
will result in unmanageable fiduciary problems, including                (a) Accountability to end users via participation in program and
misuse of funds                                                          project design and imnplementation, and via transparency rules
and use of local languages
(b) Contracting out of financial management, where necessary
(c) A random financial technical and process audit of all small
executing entities, and mandatory publication of all audit results,
complemented by audits triggered by beneficiary complaints.
(d) Financial audits of all large scale executing entities
(e) Integrated reports from executing entities which link
.___________________________________________ ____________________ performance to financial report
Overall Risk Rantig                               H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



34
On IDA 's side
95.  Given the multisectoral nature of the country project design, the limited capacity of the often newly
created national HIV/AIDS councils, the number of concerned public and private parties involved in
project implementation, and the use of funding mechanisms through new structures that have not been
tried and tested, IDA preparation, supervision and monitoring of program implementation will require a
larger-than-standard effort. IDA will have to ensure: (i) strong preparation teams, including specialists in
key fiduciary areas such as financial management and procurement; (ii) funding substantially above
current supervision coefficients is provided; (iii) supervision task teams are composed of IDA staff from a.
number of sectors and from both headquarters and country offices; (iv) specialists in key fiduciary areas
are part of supervision teams; (v) HIV/AIDS projects receive regular attention from country and sector
management, especially during the first year of implementation; and (vi) ACTafrica, UNAIDS, and major
stakeholders outside IDA remain involved in assessing implementation and identifying requirements of
Sub-Saharan Africa during and beyond the MAP period. In addition, the existing partnership between
IDA country teams and ACTafrica should be continued to help other Sub-Saharan Africa countries to
access resources under the MAP. The magnitude of the epidemic and the emergency nature of its spread
requires a different way of doing business. Countries needing assistance to meet the criteria for eligibility
should have access to the Project Preparation Facility. Country teams will have access to additional
preparation and supervision resources.
3.   Possible controversial aspects:
96. No aspects of the MAP are likely to spark external controversy. If anything, the criticisms of the
international community are likely to be that the program is not ambitious enough; the US$500 million
proposed will cover only about 10 percent of the lower estimate of Africa's annual needs. In this vein it
will be important to emphasize that this is merely the first phase of a long-term commitment, and that the
MAP could be replenished. Such a replenishment could take the form of repeater operations, for each of
which Board approval would be sought.
97.  At the country level, two aspects may provoke controversy:
98.  Governance. Outsourcing key functions such as financial management and auditing either in-
country or externally may be politically controversial. Mindful of the disappointing record of long-term
technical assistance, Governments may see such outsourcing as coming at the expense of capacity
building for their own systems. Outsourcing will not be required on principle in every country, but will
be approached case-by-case from a practical standpoint. If it is the only way of ensuring adequate speed
and accountability, it will be required. Where viable alternatives exist, they will be used.
99.  Social. Governments may be uncomfortable working with socially excluded groups such as
commercial sex workers, intravenous drug users, prisoners, or men who have sex with men. Issues such
as distributing condoms to youth may raise cultural and religious sensitivities. The involvement of
stakeholders experienced in dealing with such issues-especially NGOs and PLWHA-will help
overcome such cultural barriers in locally appropriate ways and ensure that no groups are excluded in
program implementation.



35
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
Effectiveness Conditions for Ethiopia:
*  The borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan
*  The borrower has appointed a financial manager and financial controller both acceptable to the
Association
*  The borrower has established an accounting and financial management system satisfactory to the
Association
*  The borrower has appointed a project coordinator, an assistant project coordinator, and a senior
procurement specialist
Main Effectiveness Conditionsfor Kenya:
*  A subsidiary financing agreement has been executed on behalf of the borrower
* Government has furnished the Project Implementation Plan, including a first year procurement plan,
in form and substance satisfactory to IDA
*  NACC has appointed specified key staff with qualifications and under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA
H. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
100. This program complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Anwar Bach-Baouab                 Debrework Zewdie
Team Leader                       Manager



36
Annex 1: Logframe Template for HIV/AIDS Program
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:           Sector/Country Reports:      From Goal to Bank Mission:
To promote long-term poverty                                                          The supported programs will
reduction and strengthen the                                                          enable the mobilization of
capacity and effectiveness of                                                         sufficient financial and human
poverty-focused interventions,                                                        resources to develop multi-
with a view to promote human                                                          sectoral and sustainable
development.                                                                          national and/or sub-regional
responses to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.
Commitment to address
existing barriers to the
development of comprehensive
national and sub-regional
programs will be present
among key actors in both the
public and private sectors.



37
Long-Term Program            Long-Term Program            Program Reports:              From Purpose to Goal:
Objectives:                  Indicators:
To curtail the spread of HIV  Reduced overall HIV incidence  HIV/AIDS surveillance      sustained Government
infection and to reduce sharply  and prevalence rate      reports                       commitment to enable a multi-
the imnpact of AIDS on the   Baseline:                                                  sectoral response to the
development of human, social,  Target:                                                  HIV/AIDS epidemic.
and economic capital in Africa
Reduced infant mortality rate    DHS
Baseline:
Target:
Reduced child mortality rate  DHS
Baseline:
Target:
Reduced adult mortality rate  DHS
Baseline:
Target:



38
Project Development         Outcome/Impact Indicators:   Project Reports:              From Objective to Goal:
Objective:
Availability of local NGOs
To dranatically increase access  By 2005, at least 90 percent    HIV/AIDS surveillance  with capacity to implement the
to HIV/AIDS prevention, care,  of 15-24 year olds have access  reports                 community-level initiatives
and treatment programs, and    to information, education,
impact mitigation programs,    and services                                           Interest and commitment from
with particular emphasis on                                                            beneficiaries and local
vulnerable populations (e.g.,    By 2005, HIV/AlDS       HIV/AIDS surveillance         governments
youth, women of childbearing   prevalence reduced by 25   reports
age, and other groups at    percent in 15-24 year olds                                 Motivated non-health sectors
increased risk of infection)                                                           and private sector
By 2005, parent-to-child     HIV/AIDS surveillance       implementing HIV/AIDS
transmission of HIV reduced   reports                     activities
by    percent
Decreased resistance to
behavior change because of
strong cultural beliefs



39
Output from Each            Output Indicators:          Project Reports:            From Outputs to Objective:
Component:
1) Expansion of HIV/AIDS    Increase in condom availability  Project data           Effective monitoring of
prevention programs         nationwide                                               targeted coverage
Increased percentage of retail   Survey data            Sustained intersectoral
outlets and service delivery                            collaboration at national and
points with condoms in stock                            local levels
Increased percentage of                                 Improved implementation
condoms in central stock and                            capacity of local government,
retail outlets that meet WHO                            conmmunities, and NGOs
quality control measures
Improved Ministry of Health
Increase in percentage of                               implementation capacity
population with correct
knowledge of HIV/AIDS                                   Improved effectiveness of IEC
transmission and prevention                             programs
methods
Increase in percentage of
women testing positive at
selected antenatal clinics who
are provided with a complete
course of ARV therapy to
prevent PTCT in accordance
with national/intemational
guidelines
Increase in the number of
communities with improved
prevention services
Reduction in number in target
group's reported non-regular
sexual partners



Percent increase in reported
barrier method use during last
sexual contact with regular
partners
Increased percentage of
commercial sex workers who
report using a condom with
their most recent client
Increased percentage in
male/females who have
discussed HIV/AIDS or STIs
with their regular partners
Increase in median age at first
sex among young men and
women
Reduction in percentage of
young single people who have
had premarital sex in the past
year
Increase in percentage of adults
with access to quality STI case
management
Increase percent of blood units
transfused that have been
screened for HIV according to
national/WHO standards
Increase in percent of districts
in which the largest hospital
has a functioning blood bank
and does not pay blood donors
Increase in percent of health
care facilities having guidelines
to prevent nosocomial
transmission of HIV, having
adequate sterilization
procedures, and having
surgical gloves in stock



41
2) Improved care and support   Percent of graduates of medical  Project data
services for those both infected  and nursing school in the past
and affected by HIV/AIDS     year trained in natural history
of HIV and in diagnosis and
care of common opportunistic
infections
Percentage of health facilities    Survey data
that are currently stocked with
drugs for commnon
opportunistic infections and to
provide palliative care, and
report no stock-outs in the past
year
Percent of districts with at least  Service delivery data
one center staffed by trained
counselors providing HIV
testing and counseling at either
free or affordable rates
Increase in the percentage of
clients served by VCT services
that meet minimum
requirements for provision of
quality counseling and testing
services
Percent increase in number of
communities with improved
prevention services, care, and
support
Increase in percent of orphaned
children under 15 who are
currently attending school
Increase in percent of
population receiving quality
HIV/AIDS/STI/TB case
management



42
Increase in percent of
households with a chronically
ill adult (15-49 years) who
have received external help in
caring for a patient or replacing
lost income in the past year
Increase in percentage of
households caring for an
orphan that has received
assistance from outside the
family
Increase in percent of adults
with access to quality
STI/TB/O[ case management
Percent decrease in reported
STI/TB/OI prevalence
Percentage of people
expressing nondiscriminatory
attitudes towards people with
HIV/AIDS
3) Strengthened capacity of  Increase in the number of    Project data
institutions and communities to  institutions providing effective
respond to the epidemic in a  coordination at nat'l,
multisectoral and sustained  provincial, and district levels
manner                       for the planning and
implementation of HIV/AIDS
interventions
Proper mechanisms in place to   Survey data
transfer funds for prevention,
care, and support at district and
community levels
Percent increase in number of   Survey data
organizations capable of
designing, implementing, and
evaluating HIV/AIDS/STI
activities



43
Percent increase in number of
facilities implementing and
evaluating STI/TB diagnosis
and treatment activities
4) Partnerships established  Increase in number of public    Survey data
with key implementers in all   sector institutions
sectors and at all levels and  implementing a strategy to
increased financial and human   address the impact of
resources available to support   HIV/AIDS on their sector
HIV/AIDS activities
Number of private firms
implementing a strategy to
cope with the HIV/AIDS
impact on their firm
Number of public and private
sector organizations that
implement HIV/AIDS
strategies in the public interest
(i.e., beyond the scope of their
immediate institutional and
corporate interests)
Number of community-based
organizations inplementing
programs for orphans and
vulnerable children
Increased activity of the UN
Theme Groups on HIV/AIDS
Percent increase in total
expenditures per individual
I infected with HIV/AIDS,



44
Project Components:         Inputs (budget for each       Project Reports:             From Components to
component):                                               Outputs:
1) Prevention               US $  TBD                    National and/or sub-regional
HIV/AlDS progress reports
2) Care and support         US $.. TBD                    Financial data from MOF and
line ministries
3) Capacity building        US $. TBD                     Project financial data
4) Partnerships              US $.. TBD                   Survey data



45
Annex 2: Eligibility Criteria
*   Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS. This would typically be  The in-country technical criteria will encompass all activities aiming to prevent and mitigate
demonstrated by a coherent national, multisectoral strategy and action plan for HIV/AIDS  HIV/AIDS, and improve care and treatment;
prevention, care and treatment which has been developed through a participatory approach
using social assessment techniques. It could also be demonstrated by having a participatory  *   Expand HIV/AIDS prevention program;
strategic planning process underway with a road map and timetable.                *   Improve care and support services for those both infected and affected by HIV/AIDS;
*   Strengthen the capacity of concemed institutions and communities to respond to the epidemic
.   A high level coordinating body such as a national HIV/AIDS council or equivalent has been  in a multisectoral manner;
established to oversee the implementation of the strategy and action plan. This body should  *   Establish partnership with key implementers in all sectors and at all levels and increase the
encompass broad representation of key stakeholders, including persons living with     financial and human resources available to support HIV/AIDS activities;
HIV/AIDS.                                                                         *  The following categories of expenditure will be eligible from the proceeds of the program
-- goods (e.g., condoms, biomedical equipment, office and
*   Govemment has agreed to use appropriate implementation arrangements to accelerate project  transportation equipment, income-generating equipment,
implementation, such as channeling grant funds for HIV/AIDS activities directly to      testing kits for STI/TB/HIV, drugs for related infections)
communities, and outsourcing financial management and procurement where necessary.    -- services including training and technical assistance (e.g.,
training for institutions and communities, including overseeing training/
.   Government has agreed to use and fund multiple implementation agencies, especially       workshops/seminars, technical assistance from national and
community-based and non-governmental organizations.                                     intemational partners such as consulting firms/NGOs/executing
agencies, design/production/distribution of didactic and multimedia
IEC materials)
-- grants for community interventions
-- incremental operating costs






46
Africa MAP: Candidate Countries
Attached is a typology of potential countries for the Africa MAP. Each country is assigned a score (0-4) indicating readiness to participate in the
program. The columns correspond to the eligibility criteria detailed in Annex 2 of the Project Appraisal Document. Countries are listed according
to their adult HIV prevalence rate (December 1999 estimate).
For reference:
*  = Score of 4    a  -Operations in process
*  = Score of 3
D: =ZScore of 2
*  = Score of I
*  = Score of 0



47
MAP Candidates
Adult "IIV   Satisfactory    National    Arrangements with   Request and
Countries ranked   lvrevalence   Evidence of   "IVIAIDS       Implementing      Readiness by
by adult HIV      Rate        Strategic    Coordinating   Agencies (NGOs,  Country Team        Score
prevalence rates    nd 1999   Approach to     Bodies in   private sector, etc.)    for MAP       (0-4
________________              IIV/IAIDS       Place           in Place        Involvement   checks)
1. Botswana*        35.80                                                                           2
2. SwatiIaIdAlI     25 25 r                                                       ___               3
3. Zinl6bdiwe       2_ 06                                                                           3 3
4. Lesotho          23.57                                                                           2.
5. ZanibiaA          19 95          1                                                               4
6. South Africa     19.94           '                      _                                        2
7, Natniibia        19 54                                                                           3
8. Malawi*          15.96                      .                                                    2
9. Kenya            1395            N'       ___I_J                                                 4
10. CAR              13.84                                                                          2
11. Mozarribiqu&e    13.22        __ 4
12. Djkp!!titi       11.75                                                                          O
13. Burundi          11 32    4__   N'              N                                               4
14 Rwaiida           1.1             ' 1,_                                                          4
15. Cote d'lvoire    10 76       3_   _  .__                                                    _ _   ____
16. Ethiopid*        10.63    __                                     N' _                           4 ___
17. UgalitidA        8.30             .             N                                              3
18. Tanzania*        8.09          _                                 '1                             2
19. Cameroon         7.73                                                                           2 .  4  2
20. Burkia F.'       6.44                                                                           3  
21. Cono _ _         6.43                                                                           O
22. Togo             5 98          ,                4 *f,                       __________:
23. DRC              5.07                                                                           2
24. NigeriaA  .      506         _             _ _           ____                             _        4
25. Gabon            4.16                                                                           0
26. Ghana*_          3.60                                                                           4 N  N4
27.:SjrraLeoiie   -2  --.99                                                   AM         -tb MM=0
28. Eritrea          2.87                                                                           4 4
29. Liberia          2.80                                                      F9 _  7_  .  >    . *'    , ;7
30. Angjola          2.78     _              _                                                      3



48
31. Chad              2.69          .                        _                                        2
32. Gui"ea-13is.      2.50                                                                            0
-33. Benipi          2.45= -__ J_ J                                                     J             3
34. Mali              2.03           '                       _                                        2
35. Gambia            1.95    _     _ _                                                               2
36. Seneyal           177       _          -    ___
37VG.Tinea      _      .                            _M
339.  auritania       0. 52'-.___3___
40. Eq Gitinea,      0.5 1                                                                           O
41.      asca         0.15                                                                            2 _  _   2
42. Co.11tros        0.12                                         ._O
43. Mauritius         0.08                                                                            2
Cape Verde            N/a
Sao TomelPAn.         N/a
N/a
Somall~i              N/a
__ud__                N/a
* IPAA Priority Country
Note: HIV prevalence rates were provided by UNAIDS (Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic, June 2000). In its June 2000 report,
UNAIDS did not provide updated prevalence rates for Cape Verde, Sao Tome/Principe, Seychelles, Somalia, or Sudan.



49
Typology: Africa Multi-Country AIDS Project
ED  = Score of 4   D  = Operations
F- = Score of 3                             fl     
F    Score of 2;                             -              -               S 
= Score of 1
D  =Score of 0



50
Annex 3: Guidelines for Operationalizing an Intensified Response
at the Country Level
INTRODUCTION
Every nation threatened by HIV/AIDS must lead its own response. There is no substitute
for strong national commitment and ownership. Building an effective response requires an
enabling environment and the necessary resources to bring proven interventions quickly up to
nationwide scale. In many countries, it is government that creates such an environment so that all
sectors of society can contribute. Many governments have initiated a limited response to
HIV/AIDS. Few, however, have brought it to the nationwide scale necessary. Governments of
all vulnerable countries (with their partners) need to expand and intensify their responses rapidly,
and to address H1V/AIDS as a multisectoral development issue.
Developing country governments, however, cannot overcome the H1V/AIDS challenge
alone. Given the scope of the epidemic, its costs, widespread denial and sensitivities, sustained
effort from all development partners will be required. The primary goal is to replicate what has
been proven to work-that is, to help every country at risk to establish an appropriate
multisectoral, national HIV/AIDS program comprising basic prevention, basic treatment, basic
care, and mitigation tools.
While there are many components that comprise an ideal HIV/AIDS program, the issues
African governments will face will differ depending on the state of the epidemic in their
countries. Countries with lower levels of HIV prevalence, for example, can intervene early to
stop the rapid spread of HIV through active prevention efforts. Those with higher prevalence
must confront the dual challenge of preventing H1V/AlDS while simultaneously coping with its
impact on the health system and society.
This overview presents general guidelines for Task Team Leaders (TTLs) working in the
Africa Region to operationalize an intensified HIV/AIDS response at the country level. For the
purposes of these guidelines, a typology is suggested that classifies the current African epidemic
into two states, based on HIV prevalence rates: lower/more stable, and higher/less stable
epidemics. Although these categories are somewhat arbitrary and not necessarily adequate to
reflect country-specific situations, they do provide a framework to enable TTLs to define priority
HIV/AIDS interventions and action steps in the countries in which they work.
The two epidemic states and the main challenges task team leaders will face in working on
HIV/AIDS issues in countries with these epidemics are described below.
Lower or more stable epidemic
Characteristics
* HIV infection may have existed for many years. While not highly established in the general
population, HIV may have spread in defined sub-populations.
*  HIV prevalence less than 5% in the general population, and
* Rates have been relatively stable for the past few years.



51
Main challenges
Countries will be called upon to minimize the impact of HIV/AIDS as early as possible.
Given that the threat of the epidemic may not be that visible, TTLs working in these countries
may face the challenge of sustaining, or increasing, a response in the face of limited resources and
a possible atmosphere of complacency.
The focus of HIV/AIDS interventions therefore should be to:
*  Create or strengthen an enabling environment by increasing government commitment,
attention and funding.
*  Scale up prevention activities.
*  Monitor epidemic trends and ensure an adequate surveillance system.
*  Initiate care and support.
Higher or less stable epidemic
Characteristics
* HIV is firmly established among sub-populations and groups whose behavior puts them at
high risk, as well as in the general population because of sexual networking patterns;
*  HIV prevalence is at least 5% in the general population, or,
*  Rates have grown rapidly in the past few years.
Main challenges
Countries will be called upon to maintain and augment their prevention responses, while
also strengthening care and support initiatives. TTLs working in these countries may face the
challenge of limited resources in light of the growing cost of AIDS, maintaining the momentum
of HIV/AIDS prevention initiatives, caring for those infected with AI)S, caring for AIDS
orphans, and preparing for the impact HIV/AIDS will have on different sectors.
The focus of HIV/AIDS interventions therefore should be to:
* Create or strengthen an enabling environment by increasing government commitment,
attention and funding.
*  Request more assistance.
*  Expand all prevention efforts.
*  Scale-up care activities.
* Mitigate the impact HIV/AIDS will have on different sectors.
*  Shore up health system in particular.
General guidelines for creating a Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
Seven actions are fundamental for governments to scale-up national responses to
HIV/AIDS, to create an enabling enviromnent, and to address H1V/AIDS as a multisectoral
development issue. Table 1 provides a summary of program recommendations for each action for
low and high-level HIV/AIDS epidemics in Africa.



52
1.   Increase government commitment, attention, andfunding
Strong government commitment has proved essential in every country that has made
headway against the epidemic. This calls for bold political action and leadership, not merely tacit
approval of public HIV/AIDS interventions. Leaders need to speak openly about HIV/AIDS,
overcome taboos, and place the epidemic at the center of their development agendas.
2.   Prevention activities of national coverage
Governments and their partners need to expand proven interventions to a scale large
enough to reach all vulnerable individuals. Because of scarce resources, this calls for setting
priorities and focusing on a core set of activities that have proven effective and feasible. To
ensure effectiveness, governments need to work in partnership with persons living with
HIV/AIDS, community groups, religious organizations, NGOs, health professionals, and the
private sector.
3.   Scale up care activities
Governments will need to develop strategies to care for and support the vast numbers of
people who are infected and/or affected by HIV/AIDS. Given that the costs of life-prolonging
triple-drug therapy remain out of reach for virtually all developing countries, governments will
need to focus on effective treatment for the opportunistic infections that afflict persons living with
AIDS and prevention of parent-to-child transmission. In addition, governments and their partners
need to mount programs to care for the millions of orphans and other vulnerable children where
extended families can no longer bear the full load.
4.   Support community-level activities
hi all countries, communities will need to play a decisive role in fighting against
H1V/AIDS because of their capacity for social mobilization, their awareness of the local cultural
and social context, and their daily influence on the lives of their members.
5.   Link HIV/AIDS with poverty-reduction strategies
Poverty is an important contributor to the H1V/AIDS epidemic. It can drive people to
leave their families to find work or into commercial sex for economic survival, placing them at
high risk for HIV infection. It is therefore important to address the socioeconomic factors that
make people vulnerable to HIV.
6.   Support more research
Continued research is needed into the cost of HIV/AIDS treatment and care alternatives,
the sectoral impact and costs of the epidemic, and monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of
existing interventions in different cultural and infrastructure settings. Leaders in each sector will
continue to view HIV/AIDS as a health issue unless they see the potential impact on their sector
and the relatively low cost of interventions.



53
7. Make policy and program changes to mitigate public and private impact
AIDS is shrinking capacity in the public sector and imposing new social welfare burdens
as families collapse. Countries need to explore innovative ways of rebuilding capacity in
government, as well as changes in labor and social legislation and new means of delivering social
services to aid the growing number of households headed by orphans.



54
Table 1: Components of a Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Low- and High-level Epidemics
I.zm' su;t1}1   l1izll
I)1't'% AIIt'l)ict  [)I cI ;ilk1ti  4"1
ON%\ ill',
Increase government commitment, attention, funding             444             4@
Leadership/ Program Management                                  W              lw
Reorganize the National AIDS Committee (NAC) and National AIDS
Control Program (NACP) to create a high-level, multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS task force. Ideally, the task force should function above the
sectoral ministries, report to the highest level of government, and
specify the human and financial resources needed for an intensified
national response to HIV/AIDS. It should include sectoral ministries,
religious and cultural leaders, civil society, people living with
HIV/AIDS, women's groups, youth groups, NGOs, the private sector,
and other key stakeholders. In specific, the role of the task force is to:
identify and mobilize critical partners; appoint skilled and dedicated
leaders to guide and manage the response; mobilize the needed
resources from the government budget, donor agencies, and the private
sector; and work with partnership with UNAIDS theme groups.
Advocacy                                                       t                |
Mobilize additional support by having the task force and UNAIDS
Theme Groups address government, community, private sector, and
religious leaders throughout the country and inviting them to join both
the advocacy and response initiatives.
Policy Development
Work with the task force and theme groups to review and revise
existing policies and develop new policies where needed. Policies
should include: protecting the blood supply; facilitating condom
distribution by subsidizing costs; ensuring adequate supply and
accessibility of drugs for Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) and
opportunistic infections; requiring reproductive health education in
schools; ensuring non-discrimination and human rights; and addressing
the issue of care for orphans.



55
Sector Planning                                               44               44
Help each sector assess the current and projected impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic within the sector to determine how it can best: 1)
respond to slow the epidemic among its workers; 2) avoid contributing
to epidemic spread; and 3) plan for future resource shortages that will
be created by the epidemic. Commission studies to examine how this
epidemic will affect human resources, productivity, profits, and the
manner of doing business. Use the data to plan for future needs as well
as to mobilize leaders at all levels.
Donor Council                                                 +1               WV
Work with government and the UNAIDS Theme Group to establish a
Donor Council to work closely with the reorganized NAC and NACP
to ensure donor coordination and increase support.
Institutional Strengthening                                     :w -           44
Help establish institutional strengthening programs that provide
training and management systems and address the developing human
resource needs for a multi-sectoral approach.
Surveillance of HIV/AIDS/STI Cases and Behaviors              444              44
Ensure that the government strengthens its current HIV/AIDS/STI
surveillance program and initiates programs to monitor behavior trends
through behavioral surveillance.2
Scale up prevention activities                                444 
Blood safety                                                  444
Implement a comprehensive blood-safety program that increases the
number of voluntary blood donors as opposed to paid donors, screens
all blood for HIV and other infectious agents, and ensures an adequate
blood supply by decreasing the number of unnecessary transfusions.
Behavior change communication (BCC) interventions             444              4
Use multiple media channels and other means to reach those at highest
risk of infection (CSWs, traders, migrant labor, military, truckers),
women and youth, and the general public.
Focus on changing behaviors, not just raising awareness and
knowledge.
Scale-up existing interventions to a national scale.
Integrate BCC interventions into existing programs, such as training,
schools, and the workplace.
Workplace interventions                                       4+               444
Integrate HIV/AIDS interventions into the workplace. Interventions
include the behavior-change communication tools described above as
well as condom distribution, treatment of STIs, and care for infected
workers and their families. These interventions also benefit the
surrounding communities.
Voluntary counseling and testing                              l
Strengthen counseling and testing centers, create demand for these
services, and provide them on a sustainable basis, making them
available to all who want them.
Implement policies that protect the rights of people regarding privacy
and test results.
2 For specific recommendations for designing surveillance systems according to epidemic
states, please review WHO/UNAIDS (2000). Guidelines for Second Generation HIV
Surveillance. Geneva.



56
Management of STIs                                             +4q             444
Implement a comprehensive STI management program that teaches
people how to recognize STI symptoms, where to seek treatment, and
how to reduce the risk of contracting HIV. The program provides
timely and accurate diagnosis of STIs, appropriate treatment for the
patient and his/her sexual contacts, and condoms.
Develop and disseminate guidelines for syndromic management of
STIs.
Strengthen the essential drug program.
Condom supply and logistics                                    444             4
Provide affordable and accessible male and female condoms.
Distribute condoms at subsidized prices through social marketing,
commercially through the private and public sectors.
Prevention of parent-to-child transmission (PTCT) of MIV       44               444
Establish the infrastructure and plans for implementation of drug
regimen that reduces parent-to-child transmission of HIV. Implement
this program gradually, beginning with a pilot project in selected urban
sites.
Organize meetings to develop guidelines on other options for reducing
PTCT, such as breast-feeding alternatives and vitamin A treatment.
Scale up care activities                                       44
Drugs to control opportunistic infections                      4
Provide availability of low-cost drugs to control the common
opportunistic infections associated with AIDS and to alleviate
suffering.
Ensure procurement of these drugs and integration of them into
logistics systems to ensure availability to all who need them.
Review the essential drug list to ensure that appropriate drugs are
available, and logistics systems are strengthened to increase
accessibility.
Treatment with anti-retroviral therapy                                          4
Work with UNAIDS and other partners to evaluate treatment options
and costs.
Home-based care
Examine alternatives to traditional medical care.
Provide families with the essential skills, tools, and financial resources
to provide home-based care for sick family members.
Hospice and hospital care                                      4
Train health care workers in the treatment and care of AIDS patients
and provide the needed supplies and drugs.
Identify and strengthen other care altematives.
Care for orphans and vulnerable children                       44               4-
Determine how to bear the burden of care for orphaned children. This
goes beyond the basic needs of food and shelter to ensure orphans'
basic education and health care.
Psychosocial counseling                                                         44
Provide counseling for the infected individual, family and community.
Provide training for counselors.



57
Support community-level prevention, care, and support         44
Financial support to NGOs and CBOs                            4               44
Help empower local governments, the private sector, communities and
NGOs to participate actively in designing and implementing parts of
the national AIDS program. Examples of instruments/actions include:
Legal and policy changes that permit easy creation and operation of
NGOs and community-based organizations (registration, licensing, tax
status, etc.); training of local government and NGO staff; mapping and
engagement of local groups; alliance-building, networks of NGOs and
local governments; financing local groups via social fund mechanisms
that encourage competitive, demand-driven design of local initiatives
and cost-sharing; and working with local and international business
associates.
Link-HIV/AIDS with Poverty Reduction Strategies               +               +4
Mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS upon households                4                       -
Provide policy options and community initiatives to strengthen the
coping capacity of households to the imnpact of HIV/AIDS and which
prevent people from adopting risky survival strategies.
Support more research                                         |              4
Monitoring and evaluation                                     4               44
Establish indicators to monitor and evaluate the national program.
Make use of existing data, such as HIV/AIDS/STI sentinel surveillance
and reporting data and Demographic and Health Surveys.
Cost studies                                                 44
Conduct research on the cost of HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and
care alternatives.
Make policy and program changes to mitigate public and private    4           4
impact
Support policies and programns that reduce the negative socioeconomic
impact of HIV/AIDS on production systems, public services, and
households.         _
V o 4+14= lower to higher priority interventionS



58
HIV/AIDS PREVALENCE RATES FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
(Among adults aged 15-49, as of end-1999)
Rank      Country          Adult      Rank      Country           Adult
by                   HIV/AIDS rate  by                      HIV/AIDS rate
Prev.                     (percent)   Prev.                     (percent)
1      Botswana          35.80       23    Dem. Rep. of          5.07
Congo
2      Swaziland         25.25       24        Nigeria           5.06
3      Zimbabwe          25.06       25        Gabon             4.16
4       Lesotho          23.57       26        Ghana             3.60
5       Zambia            19.95      27      Sierra Leone        2.99
6     South Africa       19.94       28        Eritrea          2.87
7       Nainibia         19.54       29        Liberia          2.80
8       Malawi           15.96       30        Angola           2.78
9        Kenya            13.95      31         Chad            2.69
X 10    Central African   13.84       32    Guinea-Bissau        2.50
Rep.
11    Mozambique          13.22       33        Benin            2.45
12       Djibouti         11.75       34        Mali             2.03
13       Burundi          11.32       35       Gambia            1.95
14       Rwanda           11.21       36       Senegal           1.77
15    Cote d'Ivoire       10.76       37        Guinea           1.54
16      Ethiopia          10.63       38        Niger            1.35
17       Uganda           8.30        39      Mauritania         0.52
18      Tanzania          8.09        40  Equatorial Guinea      0.51
19      Cameroon          7.73        41     Madagascar          0.15
20    Burkina Faso        6.44        42       Comoros           0.12
21       Congo            6.43        43       Mauritius         0.08
22        Togo            5.98                             I
Source: UNAIDS, Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic (June 2000).
Note:   UNAIDS did not list new HIV prevalence estimates for Cape Verde, Sao Tome
and Principe, Seychelles, Somalia, or Sudan.



59
Annex 4: Program Monitoring and Evaluation
Responding effectively to HIV/AIDS requires sustained monitoring and evaluation of a
broad range of measures. Each HIV epidemic behaves differently and often unpredictably,
especially once it reaches the mature phase. A proper M&E system must therefore include much
more than just general serosurveillance. It is especially important to identify and track the key
leading behavioral and epidemiological indicators of where the epidemic is headed, such as
sexual behavior and STI prevalence among persons aged 15-24 and among those whose behavior
puts them at risk. A complete M&E program for HIV/AIDS should compile data of four types:
(1) knowledge, attitudes and sexual behavior; (2) program context, inputs and outputs; (3)
coverage and quality of key services; and (4) health status. Each country needs to choose its own
particular measures according to the state of the epidemic and the main behavioral factors driving
its spread. A country program should identify and measure at least one indicator within each of
the following categories:
* Program coverage, including the share of communities covered
* Condom accessibility and quality
* Stigma and discrimination
* Knowledge of HIV transmission and prevention
* Rates of counseling, testing and referral
* Parent-to-child transmission (where such services are offered)
* Sexual behavior in the general population and among young people
B Blood safety
* STD care and treatment (e.g. appropriate diagnoses, STD drug supply)
C Care and support for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS
H Health and social impact (including rates of STIs, especially among young people, and
prevalence of orphans)
Given the importance of such information, each country program should invest
substantially in establishing a robust M&E system for which coordination may be done by the
secretariat of a country's national HIV/AIDS council. This need not be done from scratch. Most
countries have some system in place, and some of the data needed are available from existing
information systems. But most systems need strengthening, especially in the areas of systematic
data synthesis and use. M&E units will be able to call on technical expertise from IPAA partners
in reinforcing their systems. WHO and UNAIDS have just issued Guidelines for Second
Generation HIVSurveillance (May 2000), which provides an excellent overview of how to tailor
M&E for maximum benefit in individual country cases. UNAIDS can also provide substantial
technical assistance to secretariats on demand in this area.
A country program will usually support the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) unit in the HIV/AIDS council or secretariat. The unit will define the scope of work on
program activities to be included in the M&E arrangements. As a principle, the M&E Unit will
rely on formal links with external expertise for generation of infornation and analysis, including
such bodies as the Central Statistical Authority, Regional Statistical Offices, universities and
private institutions. It will be especially important to support the establishment of a network of
local social scientists to undertake much of the M&E field work and analysis.
With respect to implementation, the M&E Unit will normally be in charge of developing
and exploiting a data collection system appropriate to establish the performance indicators of
each program component, clearly distinguishing among: (a) program outputs; (b) progress



60
towards outcomes; and (c) early indications of trends towards longer term impact. The unit will
need to establish what monitoring and which kinds of evaluation will be done at various levels of
activity. It will probably compile and consolidate, on a quarterly basis, monitoring informnation
including data related to expenditures and disbursements. It will also prepare consolidated
quarterly implementation reports for the overall program. Implementation progress reports will
be submitted to the national HIV/AIDS council and to IDA every six months. It would also be
useful to have an independent performance evaluation of the program conducted every two years
to focus on: (i) the assessment of the short term impact of program activities on the epidemic,
with particular focus on vulnerable groups; and (ii) an operational audit of the program, including
activity completion, impact of activities and progress towards sustaining activities. The
evaluation will highlight lessons learned which will be used to improve the efficiency of program
implementation, to make adjustments to the program implementation manual, and to identify
improvements for content and implementation procedures for future programs.
Since the objective of many of the project activities will be changing behavior of a large
number of disparate groups in the short, medium and long terms, a process of beneficiary and
stakeholder feedback and of social impact monitoring is essential to the success of the project. In
this regard, a series of key social impact monitoring and mitigation steps along the following lines
is essential:
(a) Identification of key social and cultural development and participation issues
*  Linking the key social and cultural development issues regarding HIV/AIDS,
particularly with regard to participation of the poor, youth, women, PLWHA and other
vulnerable groups
*  Identifying stakeholders whose participation in the project is of strategic importance,
including those who hold power over vulnerable groups
*  Defining a project-specific information strategy-particularly important since the
program is multisectoral in nature and national in scope, and uses a wide variety of
implementation mechanisms; and
*  Establishing mitigation plans if the project is found to have adverse impacts on social
groups.
(b)  Evaluation of institutional and social organizational issues
*  Identifying impediments to equitable access to project activities for intended
beneficiary groups, especially those that are currently disempowered or face other
obstacles
*  Recommending strategies for strengthening institutional capacity. This is especially
relevant for areas in a country where CBOs, which are vital implementation
mechanisms for the project, are not well developed or are unaccustomed to designing
and implementing activities such as those envisaged under the program.



61
(c) Definition of a participation framework
* Defining implementation arrangements based on stakeholder consultation that ensures
ownership of and inclusion in project activities.



62
Annex 5: Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS
Introduction
HIV/AIDS is a major development crisis. Not since the Black Death devastated medieval
Europe has humankind observed infectious disease deaths on such a scale. Life expectancies,
which rose steadily before the onset of the HIV epidemic, are decreasing in nearly all the 25
countries where the adult prevalence rate exceeds 5 percent. In the countries most heavily
affected by HIV/AIDS, life expectancy is projected to fall to about 30 years by 2010- a level not
seen since the beginning of the 20h century.
Various factors related to poverty, inequality, gender inequality, sexually transmitted
infections, social norms, political and social changes, including labor migration, conflicts and
ethnic factions have facilitated the rapid spread of HIV. But what has enabled HIV/AIDS to
undermine economic and social development is its unprecedented erosion of some of the main
determinants of economic growth such as social capital, domestic savings and human capital. For
these reasons, the HIV epidemic has been transformed from a health issue into a much wider
issue impairing economnic and social development. Because it prevents an increasing share of the
population from participating in economic growth, the HIV/AIDS epidemic increases poverty.
The result is a vicious circle whereby HIV/AIDS reduces econornic growth and increases poverty,
which in turn accelerates the spread of HIV. Preventing further spread of HIV/AIDS, in addition
to providing care and support programs to those both affected and infected by this epidemic,
requires early intervention and the mobilization of external resources. The purpose of this annex
is to discuss and quantify the economic rationale that underlies such an effort.
1.   HIIV/AIDS and Economic and Social Stagnation
HIV/AIDS is a major health issue, but it is only recently that it has become recognized as a
major development issue. There are two reasons for this: (i) HIV/AIDS can spread like wildfire
unless controlled through early prevention activities; and (ii) HIV/AIDS reverses economic and
social development gains.
HIVWAIDS: A Wildfire
HIV/AIDS has now become one of the worst adult killers among infectious diseases.
Worldwide, some 18.8 million people have died since the beginning of the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
In Africa, AIDS-related diseases are the main cause of mortality. Both the speed and scale of the
HIV epidemic have been much worse than expected. As long as the HIV prevalence rate remains
below 5 percent, the HIV epidemic tends to spread slowly. But once it reaches a level around 5
percent, the HIV infection spreads exponentially with the prevalence rate sometimes increasing
by 50 percent every year. * The result is that there are now 16 countries in Africa in which more
than 10 percent of the adult population is infected with HIV.
Few governments have responded forcefully. To a large extent this is because the HIV
epidemic has remained an "invisible" disease for many years. Because of the long incubation
period of the virus, individuals manifest few signs of illness for nearly a decade. It is only when
the immune system has been sufficiently weakened by the HIV virus that opportunistic infections
such as tuberculosis result in death. It is therefore only in the few years that the devastating
demographic, economic and social impacts of the HIV epidemic have become apparent.



63
An Unprecedented Demographic Catastrophe
In the most heavily-affected countries, the demographic impact is staggering. Projections
from the US Census Bureau indicate that by 2003 Botswana, South Africa and Zimbabwe will be
experiencing negative population growth -an outcome that was judged highly unlikely just a few
3
years ago. Several other countries, including Malawi, Swaziland, Namibia and Zambia, will see
their population remain constant. In the absence of AIDS, their population would have grown by
1.0-2.3 percent per year.
Hard-won gains in life expectancies are being wiped out in countries affected by the HIV
epidemic. In the countries with the highest HIV prevalence rate such as Botswana and Zimbabwe
life expectancy has fallen from 70 to about 39 years (Figure 1). In four other countries (Malawi,
Mozambique, Rwanda and Zambia) life expectancies have been cut by a decade or more by the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. If these trends continue unabated, the future looks even bleaker. By 2010,
life expectancy in Botswana, Zimbabwe and South Africa would fall to about 30 years, nearly
half its level of twenty years ago.
Figure 1: Life Expectancy in Selected African
Countries(1985-2010)
652
60
,cSi 40                             Zambia
30 ~ l        r    T              > Botswana
1985  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010
Source: US Census Bureau, May 2000
Such outcomes are not ineluctable. Uganda's life expectancy declined in 1990-95, but
since then it has been showing signs of increase. Similarly, Zambia's life expectancy is expected
to increase in the 2000-2010 period as a consequence of the decline in the HIV prevalence rate
among the young. In Senegal, early and sustained interventions have contained the HIV infection
rate to below 2 percent, and life expectancy has been increasing. Nevertheless, such
developments remain more the exception than the norm. For most developing countries, the
recent spread of the HIV epidemic augurs poorly for long-term economic growth and poverty
reduction.
3    U.S. Bureau of Census, World Population Profile 2000, Washington, U.S. Bureau of Census



64
Erosion of the Process of Economic Development
HIV/AIDS' extraordinary impact on development is due to its ability to undermnine three
main determinants of economic growth, namely physical, human and social capital. But due to
the long incubation period of the HIV virus (7-10 years), the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic is
likely to be drawn over time with the rate of growth of physical and human capital and the
efficiency of social capital declining slowly in parallel with the maturing of the HIV epidemic.
Over time, the behavior of GDP would reflect a similar gradual downward reduction of the rate of
growth of GDP rather than a sudden fall in GDP per capita.
Initially, the HIV/AIDS epidemic has a negligible impact on physical investment. As time
passes, the HIV/AIDS epidemic leads to an increase in opportunistic infections and a worserling
of the health status of the population, which can result in lower domestic savings by governments
and households. The government budget is adversely affected because expenditures increase due
to the treatment and care of AIDS-related diseases, pension payments for AIDS-related deaths,
and training of newly hired civil servants to replace those that died. In most cases, the fiscal
deficit would worsen as few countries can offset the fiscal cost of the HIV/AIDS epidemic by
cutting other expenditures or raising taxes. One reason is that the HIV epidemic is often the most
advanced in those economies that are already in a weak economic condition and least able to
adjust expenditures and revenues.
The second consequence of the HIV epidemic is to affect the savings of households.
Faced with the illness of adult family members, H1V-infected households experience a fall in
income, which forces them to deplete their savings and/or assets. Other households may,
however, increase their precautionary savings if the risk of contracting AIDS-related diseases is
viewed as significant. Savings would also increase if households' earnings rise. This could occur
for the better-off households. In view of the scarcity of skilled labor in most developing
countries, the reduced availability of skilled labor (such as caused by AIDS-related deaths) would
increase wages for skilled labor. But this is unlikely to be the case for unskilled labor given the
usually large pool of unemployed workers and potential migrant workers from rural areas.
On balance, the domestic saving rate of developing countries was negatively related to the
level of the HIV prevalence rate (Table 1). Because domestic saving is the main source of
financing for most developing countries, the reduction in savings would lead to less domestic
investment, which in turn would reduce long-term economic growth. To the extent, however, that
developing countries have access to external financing, the shortfall in domestic savings can be
offset by the mobilization of external resources. In such a case, the reduction in economic growth
may not occur.
The second effect of the HIV epidemic is to destroy human capital and reduce the
incentives to invest in training and schooling. Unlike most other infectious diseases, HIV/AIDS
has ignored income or social barriers. In the absence of adequate information on HIV/AIDS,
both high and low-income groups have been affected. In the high HIV prevalence countries a
generation of educated civil servants, teachers, health workers and professionals is being lost at a
time when these skills are still in short supply. If this leads to increased wages for skilled labor,
the return to schooling and training would increase. However, the shorter life expectancy
resulting from HIV/AIDS means that the benefits of training and education can only be recovered
over a shorter time horizon, which reduces the rate of return on investment in human capital. On
balance, this latter effect is likely to be predominant for the high HIV prevalence countries. In
these countries the reduction in life expectancy to about 30 years is such that long-term
investment in human capital ceases to be financially profitable. As shown by Table 1, the



65
econometric evidence suggests that the secondary school enrollment rate fell in 1990-95 on
account of the HIV epidemic.
Table 1: Education, Domestic Saving and HIV Prevalence Rate 1/
Dependent Variables
Change in secondary    Change in domestic
enrollment rate (1990-   saving rate (1990-
95)                    96)
Constant                           -6.73                   0.46
(-1 .2)          ~~~~~(O. 1)
Gross domestic saving rate (1990)   --                     -0.28**
(-2.8)
Secondary enrollment rate (1990)   -0.11*                  -0.10**
(-1.6)                 (-2.02)
Growth rate of GDP per capita (1980-  124.3**              86.6**
90)
(3.54)                 (2.4)
Number of phones per capita        5.06**                  2.49*
(in log) 2/                        (2.1)                   (1.8)
Log of HIV prevalence rate (1997)    -0.39                 -1.18
(-0.62)                (-1.5)
Log of HIV, squared                -0.49**                 -0.61**
(-2.6)                 (-2.6)
Dummy variable for Southern Africa   11.2**                10.2**
(2.8)                  (2.2)
R2                                 0.40                    0.38
No of observations                 64                      77
Notes:
1/   Cross-country regression. Heteroscedasticity-consistent t statistics in parentheses
(White correction). ** indicates that the coefficient is statistically significant at the
5% level; * indicates statistical significance at a 10% level.
2/ Number of phones per person is used as an index of development.
Regression with the log of GDP per capita would generate the same result.
Equally important is the erosion of social capital. As shown by several recent
studies, the quality of regulations and of the legal system as well as the extent of trust and
civic cooperation within countries have been found to matter for economic growth.
Because HIV affects the social structure of local communities, it erodes existing social
network and traditional support mechanisms. One result is a generation of AIDS-related
orphans who might have to grow up without the traditional support and guidance of
adults in addition to changes in community structures.



66
HIVWAIDS and Economic Stagnation
The empirical relation between HIV/AIDS and economic growth during the 1990s was
investigated through a cross-country regression covering some 70-80 developing countries for
which data is available. The approach that was followed consisted of estimating a system of three
equations to take into account the relationships among economic growth, policy and institutional
variables, and the determinants of the HIV epidemic (see Attachmnent for a description of the
model).4
Figure 2: Growth inpact of HIV (1990-97)
(80 developing countries)
O - 0
-0.2 
-0.4 - ~ ~     -'4;
-0.8 -+ 
-1.4 -
-1.6
0   5   10  15  20  25  30  35
IRV Prevalence Rate (%/6)
The main implication is that infectious disease matter substantially for economic
development. Figure 2 shows the reduction in the growth rate of GDP per capita resulting from
HIV/AIDS while holding constant the other factors that affect growth. Had the HIV prevalence
rate not reached 8.6 percent in 1999, Africa's income per capita would have grown at 1.1 percent
per year - or nearly three times the growth rate (0.4 percent per year) achieved in 1990-97.
For the countries with high prevalence rates, the economic cost of HIV/AIDS is even more
staggering. In the case of a typical sub-Saharan country with a prevalence rate of 20 percent, the
rate of growth of GDP would be some 2.6 percentage points less each year.5 At the end of a
twenty year period GDP would be 67 percent less than otherwise. One reason for the large
impact of HIV/AIDS is that it includes the effect of AIDS-related opportunistic infections and
other communicable diseases.
HIV/AIDS and Poverty
The economic impact of HIV/AIDS will not be uniform across countries or even within
countries. Countries that are well developed with a strong health infrastructure can usually
mobilize the resources needed to provide care and treatment. Furthermore, because of their well-
4    Developed countries were excluded partly due to the lack of data concerning some of the policy
variables that were used in the econometric estimation, and partly because the spread of HIV in these
countries reflects different causes (non-heterosexual) than Africa.
5    This is the sum of the reduction in growth per capita (1.2 percent) and the shortfall in population
growth (1.4 percent)



67
developed educational systems and stock of human capital, the AIDS-related loss of human
capital does not entail the same consequences it has in countries where skilled labor is in short
supply. By contrast, poor countries and poor households which do not have access to such
resources are especially vulnerable to a rapid spread of HIV. The HIV epidemic creates a vicious
cycle whereby HIV/AIDS reduces economic growth, slower growth increases poverty, and
poverty facilitates the rapid spread of HIV/AIDS. This affects poor households through the
following chain of events. When adults in a family become infected, they fall ill and stop
earning. Children, especially girls, are then often taken out of school to look after the ill members
of the families, which sharply constrains children's opportunities for higher income later in life.
In such circumstances, the poor are forced to reduce their expenditure on food, which reduces
further their resistance to the opportunistic infections made possible by HIV/AIDS. The
consequence is an increase in the mortality rate and the reversal of most development gains of the
last decade.
II. The Unaffordable Cost of Policy Inaction
Faced with a potentially rapid spread of HIV/AIDS, countries have the following two
options:
i)  delay HIV/AIDS interventions while the prevalence rate remains low and implement
HIV/AIDS programs once the epidemic becomes highly visible;
ii)  implement comprehensive prevention and treatment programs early on while the HIV
prevalence rate is low.
So far, most developing countries have unfortunately followed the first option. They have
implemented HIV/AIDS programs, but with various lack of success in controlling the HIV
epidemic due to the limited scale of these programs. This option is now no longer sustainable
over the longer term due to the increasing fiscal and economic cost of delaying the
implementation of a comprehensive program of interventions.
Figure 3: HIVIAIDS: Prevention, Treatment
and Basic Care (sub-Saharan Africa)
15.-
_   10       O
0
Q
Adult HIV Prevalence Rate  )



68
The cost of delaying action is illustrated by Figure 3. This graph shows the estimated per
capita cost of implementing the package of interventions in prevention and care that would be
supported under the MAP.6 When the HIV prevalence rate in the general population is below 5
percent, HIV/AIDS program costs about US$3 per capita. But once the HIV prevalence rate
exceeds 15%, the cost of HIV/AIDS program rises rapidly to about US$10-12 per capita.
Few countries can afford the financial cost of inaction. In the case of a developing country
with a per capita income of US$300, the budgetary cost of implementing a national scale
HIV/AIDS program amounts to 1.0 percent of GDP when the HIV prevalence rate is less than 5
percent. If the implementation is delayed so that the HIV prevalence rate reaches 20 percent of
the population, the budgetary cost amounts to 3.3 percent of GDP. This cost excludes the
provision of antiretroviral drugs. For illustrative purposes, Figure 4 also shows the typical cost of
a HIV/AIDS program that would include the provision of antiretroviral therapy to 10 percent of
the target group in a country with a prevalence rate of 25 percent. Even under the assumption
that antiretroviral drugs would be provided at a reduced price, the cost would amount to 5.7
percent of GDP.7 However, countries that implement early on a comprehensive package of HIV
prevention measures would be in a position to afford antiretroviral drugs. Due to the reduction in
the number of HIV infections, the number of AIDS patients would be less, which would result in
an affordable budgetary health cost.
Figure 4: HIV Epidemic and
Annual Budgetary Cost
6. 
1 /  *_
2-U-
0-
5%       20%        25%
HIV Prevalence Rate
6    This is based on a study of the costs of scaling up HIV/AIDS programs to a national level in some
30 sub-Saharan African countries for which data was available. The cost estimates do not include the cost
of triple antiretroviral therapy with the exception of antiretroviral treatment to prevent parent-to-child
transmission of HIV.
7    For simnulation purpose the cost of the antiretroviral drugs is assumed to be US$1,400 per patient per
year, which is much lower than current commercial costs.



69
III. Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Program (MAP)
Given the relationship demonstrated above, one of the key development goals of countries
should be to control and reverse the spread of the HIV epidemic. This can be achieved through
the implementation of the comprehensive package of measures that are part of the MAP. Both
the previous discussion and the econometric evidence suggest that the implementation of the
package of measures included in the MAP will have a substantial impact on the HIV prevalence
rate, which would improve the welfare of households.
Benefits of the MAP. The program would have the following four main benefits.
*  First, because of the national coverage of the program, the population at large will benefit
directly from avoidance of HIV infection and from better access to treatment, care and
mitigation activities supported by the program.
*  Second, the MAP would sharply reduce new infections, especially among young people, and
therefore prevent future suffering and premature deaths. These benefits will be especially
important for women and youth that will benefit from targeted interventions to improve their
awareness of the disease and empower them to protect themselves.
*  Third, the MAP program would help improve standards of living among disadvantaged
groups and reduce income inequality. People living with HIV/AIDS will benefit from
reduced stigma and improvements in their human rights, from improved care at home, in their
communities, and in health centers and hospitals, and therefore from a prolonged and more
healthy life. Lower income groups will also benefit from community-based assistance to
households taking care of AIDS patients and orphans.
*  Fourth, the implementation of the MAP will reduce the future number of HIV/AIDS patients
and orphans. As a result, the costs of treatment and care of HIV/AHDS patients would be less
than otherwise. This will allow countries to allocate the savings to productive investments
and significantly improve long term per capita income growth.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
For illustrative purposes, it was assumed that some eight representative African countries
(including Kenya and Ethiopia) would have access to the financing provided by the MAP. These
countries include some 280 million people -about half of sub-Saharan African population.
Costs of MAP. The cost of implementing nation-wide HIV/AIDS programs in eight
representative African countries was estimated to amount to some US$575 million per year. This
financing would cover the cost of providing a basic package of HIV/AIDS interventions and
treatment on a nation-wide basis. Provided implementation constraints are alleviated faster, a
larger percentage of the population could have access to a basic care package, including treatment
of opportunistic infections such as tuberculosis. Under that assumption, the annual cost of the
MAP would increase to US$740 million (column B of Table 3).
Reduction in new infections. In the absence of the MAP, the HIV epidemic would
continue to spread. This assumption is based on the increase in the average prevalence rate,
which rose from 0.6 percent in 1984 to 3.3 percent in 1990, 6.5 percent in 1995 and 7.9 percent in



70
1999.8 As a conservative assumption, the HIV prevalence rate was projected to increase from 7.9
percent of the adult population (15-49 years of age) to 10 percent by 2003 and remain at that
level.
With the MAP, the HIV prevalence rate would fall from 7.9 percent in 1999 to 5.6 percent
by 2010 and below 4 percent after 2015. The driving force would be the reduction in half of the
number of new HIV infections among the 15-24 year-olds by 2010. This is an achievable goal as
it has been met by several countries in the 1990s. For the rest of the adult population, new HIV
infections would decrease in a similar fashion, but because of existing HIV infections among
adults, the adult H1V prevalence rate would be cut by only 25 percent over a ten-year period.
Budgetary savings. The fall in new HIV infections would reduce the number of new
AIDS cases. Given an average incubation period of the HIV virus of about eight years, some 6.7
million adult deaths would be averted over the period 2000-2020. In economic terms, the
reduction in HIV infections would result in lower costs of treatment and care of HIV/AIDS
patients, which would offset part of the MAP costs (column C of Table 3).
Increased output growth. Based on the econometric results discussed above, the fall in the
HIV prevalence rate would increase the growth rate of GDP per capita. In addition, the reduction
in AIDS-related deaths would increase labor force growth, which would further raise GDP
growth. In total, the rate of growth of GDP would increase gradually by about 0.2 percentage
points per year in 2007-2015 and 0.5 percentage points afterwards. The absolute increase in the
value of GDP for the eight countries is shown in Table 3 (column E).
Internal rates of return. The last two columns of Table 3 show the net economic benefits
that would result from the combination of output increase and the different assumptions
concerning costs. Overall, the internal rate of return is quite similar under the two cost
assumptions as it ranges from 29 to 31 percent.
8    The HIV prevalence rate was estimated by weighting the adult population (15-49 years of age) of
each country by the HIV prevalence rate of each country.



71
Table 3: Costs and Benefits of MAP
(US$ million, constant 2000 prices)
Cost of       Savings       GDP       Increase      Net Economic Benefits
Year Multi-Sectoral     due to     Base Case   in GDP
HIVIAIDS       reductions   (4%p.a)  due to lower
Program 1/   in infections              HIVRate  (E) - (A-C)  (E) - (B-C)
(A)  (B) 2/          (C)       (D)         (E) 3/        (F)         (G)
2001    -115   -115            0.0     79173             0        -115        -115
2002    -288   -288           15.9     82340             0        -272        -272
2003    -460   -460           32.5     85634             0        -428        -428
2004    -575   -575           66.5     89059             0        -508        -508
2005    -575   -740           71.4     92621            93        -411        -576
2006    -575   -740           83.4     96326           193        -299        -464
2007    -575   -740           99.4    100179           411         -64        -229
2008    -575   -740          115.9    104186           647         188          23
2009    -575   -740          133.1    108354           902         460         295
2010    -575   -740          150.8    112688          1211         787         622
2011    -575   -740          169.3    117196          1543        1138         973
2012    -575   -740          184.4    121883          1901        1511        1346
2013    -575   -740          200.1    126759         2286         1911        1746
2014    -575   -740          220.9    131829         2700         2345        2180
2015    -575   -740          240.6    137102         3479         3144        2979
2016    -575    -740         256.9    142586         4319         4001        3836
2017    -575   -740          272.0    148290          5224        4921        4756
2018    -575   -740          288.0    154221          6198        5911        5746
2019    -575   -740          300.2    160390          7246        6971        6806
2020    -575   -740          308.3    166806          8371        8105        7940
2021    -575   -740          316.8    173478          9579        9321        9156
2022    -575   -740          316.8    180417         10874       10616       10451
2023    -575   -740          316.8    187634         12262       12004       11839
2024    -575   -740          316.8    195139         13748       13490       13325
2025    -575   -740          316.8    202945         15338       15080       14915
Internal Rate of Return                                                31%         29%
Notes:
1/ Program covers eight sub-Saharan African countries with a total population of 280 million. Cumulative
disbursement is assumed to be: first year: 20%; second year: 50%; third year: 80%; fourth year: 100%.
2/ Cost of program is assumed to reach US$740 million in 2005 with further expansion of coverage
of HIV/AIDS interventions.
3/ Rate of growth of GDP increases from 4% to 4.1% in 2005-07, 4.21% in 2007-2010, 4.24% in
2010-15, and 4.48% in 2015-2025.



72
Attachment
A. Key Determinants of HIV/AIDS
Several economic, sociological and cultural variables account for the spread of the HIV epidemic.
The main economic variables that have been identified include: life expectancy, human capital, income
inequality, gender inequality, and the extent of labor migration.9 As expected, there is a strong
relationship between good health (reflected in life expectancy) and HIV/AD)S. Because access to health
services is generally dependent on the level of income, there is a positive association between income
inequality and HIV/AIDS (Figure 1).
Unequal regional development among countries as well as within countries can induce labor
migration to urban areas or other countries. The resulting concentration of single men in urban areas or
project sites is generally accompanied by a parallel increase in commercial and casual sex with a
concomitant rise in the risk of HIV infection.
Gender and income inequality make societies more vulnerable to HIV because a woman who is
poor relative to men, will find herself exposed to a much greater risk of getting infected with the HIW
virus. As shown by Figure 2, empowerment of women through greater economic independence is
associated with a lower HIV prevalence rate (Figure 2).I0 Increasing women's economic independence
does two things. First, it provides women with the financial and legal independence they need to take into
account their own welfare at crucial times. Without such independence, women are often not in a
position to follow safe prevention techniques which have been found to reduce the risk of HIV infection.
Limits on independence include land inheritance laws and legal obstacles to opening banking accounts
and starting their own businesses. Second, the availability of market employment opportunities increases
the opportunity cost of commercial sex work. On one hand this implies that fewer women will become
commercial sex workers to survive, and on the other hand it also leads to more condom use by
commercial sex workers.
A key determinant of economic independence is education. It is therefore not surprising that
education is associated with a lower HIV prevalence rate (Figure 3). Education also operates to raise the
costs of becoming infected,'" and, particularly if it includes sexual education, it will improve the
knowledge of the risks entailed by unprotected sexual relations. Both factors increase the incentives to
invest in HIV prevention activities and account for the broad negative relationship between education and
HIV.
Sociological and cultural variables include the type of sexual relations, religious belief, and the
structure of societies. The type of sexual relations is important because it affects the relative spread of
HIV among men and women. In Africa, HIV is mainly spread through heterosexual relations. As a
result, HIV/AIDS affects men and women much more uniformly than in other countries.
9    "Confronting AIDS". World Bank Research Report (1997).
10   The share of female labor in the industrial sector was taken as an indicator of the lack of market opportunities
for women.
11   The cost is proportional to the lost earnings resulting from AIDS-related mortality. This means that educated
workers have higher incentives to invest in HIV prevention measures than unskilled workers.



73
Inequality and HIV Prevalence Rate        Female Employment and HIV Prevalence Rate
4                                               4
i;3 2              000          o D            X2-  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2-                                                 2A0          0
0    00               .t~~~~46 0
-6-                                             -6-
lO   20    30   40    S0    60 0                 00         20           40          60
Income Inequality (I1990-92) (GINI coeffici ent)    Female Labor in Industry (;1990)
Figure I                  Figure 2
H'IV and Female Educaffon
0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . 
U ~ ~     ~     ~    d       o s                   000                0
0                       C
0  000-
0.~~~~                        D      o o  O                 00D
-4   0                                >-4    00               00~-4
0~ 00000               0                   =0   00000   0 
-6 -
0           50          100          150
Female Secondary Enrollment Rate (1984)
Figure 3



74
Ethnic fractionalization could be an important determinant of the HIV prevalence rate to the extent
that it entails discrimination against some ethnic groups in the allocation of public expenditures.
Ethnically-diverse societies, with some groups being more affected by HIV than others, may experience
difficulty in agreeing on spending priorities. The result may be less public spending on public goods as
documented by Alesina, Baqir and Easterly (1999). However, this effect may be offset by strengthening
community-based response to the HIV epidemics as this may facilitate the formation of a broad-based
response in the face of an HIV epidemic.
Epidemiological variables include cofactors that increase the risk that sexual contacts will result in
HIV infection. The most important cofactor is probably ulcerative sexually transmitted diseases. As is
usual in epidemiological models, the age of the epidemic, i.e. how long it has been since the first
infectious case was reported in a country, affects the evolution of the HIV prevalence rate over time.
Because HIV/AIDS weakens the immune response, it gradually becomes the main cause of opportunistic
infections such as tuberculosis. There are also some indications that HIV is a cofactor of malaria. All
these factors combine to make HIV/AIDS one of the most potent diseases of developing countries.
Econometric results. The evidence shown in the previous graphs suggest that the spread of the
HIV epidemic is related to various economic, sociological and cultural characteristics. This was futher
explored through a cross-country regression of the HIV prevalence rate for some 60 developing countries
for which data was available. Table 1 provides statistical evidence that education, increased job
opportunities for women, and cultural belief reduce the prevalence of HIV. Their coefficients are highly
statistically significant even when controlling for the level of income per capita and infrastructure by
countries. Similarly, income inequality, ethnic fractionalization, and the age of the epidemic increase the
spread of HIV/AIDS. In total, these factors explain about 70 percent of the variation of the HIV
prevalence rate among developing countries.



75
Table 1: Key Determinants of HIV Prevalence Rate (1997)
Dependent Variable: Log of the HIVprevalence rate       Coefficient   t-Statistic 1/
Log of the number of phones per person (1994)          -0.84        -2.2**
Growth rate of GDP per capita (1980-90)                 4.58         0.5
Share of female labor in industry (1990)               -0.0035      -1.7*
Muslim (% of population)                                -0.024      -5.2**
Ethnic fractionalization 2/                             0.027        3.5**
Time since first HIV case was reported                  0.379        2.9**
Labor migration (1990) 3/                               0.003        3.2**
Secondary school enrollment rate (1990) 4/             -0.016       -1.2
Constant                                               -1.7         -0.85
R-squared                                              0.69
Number of observations                                 59
Notes:
1/   White Heteroskedasticity-Consistent Standard Errors & Covariance.
** indicates that the coefficient is statistically significant at the 5% level;
* indicates statistical significance at a 10% level.
2/   Ethnic fractionalization index from Levine, Easterly (1997)
3/   As a proxy for labor migration, the share of factor receipts in exports was used.
4/   Due to multicollinearity between income inequality and gender inequality, the income
inequality variable was excluded from the regression. However, when gender inequality is
excluded, the income inequality measure is highly significant. For the same reason, female
education was replaced by total education to reduce multicollinearity with gender inequality.



76
B. HIV/AIDS and Economic Growth
One of the main difficulties involved in assessing the impact of HIV/AIDS on growth is a
fundamental identification problem. Does HIV affects policy variables and institutional variables, or do
institutional variables --for example, political instability-- cause HIV? To address that question, a system
of three equations is used to model explicitly the interactions among HIV/AIDS, policy and institutional
variables and growth.
The first equation follows the standard approach of the recent growth literature by regressing the
average rate of growth of GDP per capita on macroeconomic policy, institutional variables and other
variables that have been identified as important determinants of economic growth (Table 3). The second
equation links macroeconomic policy ratings and institutional variables to the HIV prevalence rate and
other exogenous variables that can account for differences among countries (Table 2). The third equation
expresses the HIlV prevalence rate as a function of the main determinants discussed in the previous
section (Table 1). The impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on growth is then obtained by solving the
system of three equations."2
Before turning to the empirical results, it should be stressed that the estimates presented below
should be treated with caution for the following reasons. First, GDP per capita is a biased estimate of the
impact of HIV/AIDS. Such measure neglects the welfare of the generation that died because of
HIV/AIDS as it takes into account only the income per capita of the surviving generation. The principal
reason for focusing on GDP per capita is simply that it is a widely used indicator.
Second, the cross-section econometric methodology that was adopted has inherent limitations. In
particular, the HIV variable could be picking up the effects on growth of other factors rather than the
impact of the epidemic. To address this issue, various variables that could play such a role were added to
the econometric regressions. These included the malaria morbidity rate and geographical factors such as
tropical location or being landlocked. With the exception of malaria, the statistical significance of these
variables was too low to affect the magnitude of the estimated impact of the HIV epidemic. A remaining
issue, however, is the estimation procedure that relates GDP growth to the level of HIV/AIDS rather than
the change of HIV/AIDS over time. A more complete analysis involving panel data will be conducted
following the release of data for the 1999 HIV prevalence rate.'3
The estimated growth equation is consistent with the findings of the growth literature. Nearly all
the coefficients are statistically significant with the expected sign (Table 3). The coefficient of per capita
income is negative, which is consistent with the hypothesis of conditional convergence of GDP per capita
between poor and rich countries. The level of infrastructure and the primary school enrollment rate are
significant with the expected positive effect on GDP growth.
Malaria and growth. What could bias the estimated impact of HIV on growth is the omission of
relevant variables from the growth regression. If these variables are positively correlated with HIV, the
coefficient of HIV would be biased upwards as it would include their impact. Among the possible
diseases that are important for Africa, malaria stands out. Following the approach of McCarthy, Wolf and
Wu (2000), data on the morbidity caused by malaria was used to construct an index of morbidity rate per
12    Ordinary least squares and instrumental variables were used to estimate these three equations. Instrumental
variables were measured at the beginning of the period to reduce the extent to which some of the variables would
endogeneous. The results obtained by using two stage least squares to address issues of endogeneity and possible
simultaneous determination of some variables are quite similar. For these reasons, they are not included in the
attached tables.
13   "Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic". June 2000, UNAIDS.



77
100,000 persons.14 Overall, the results suggest that the per capita growth of the countries affected by
malaria was reduced by 0.3 percentage points per year in 1990-97.
HIV/4IDS and policy variables. The econometric results of Table 2 are consistent with the
hypothesis that HIV/AIDS affects a broad range of institutions and policies. Since it covers most
developing countries, the country ratings of macroeconomic policy done by the World Bank was used as
an indicator of macroeconomic outcome. As shown by the second column of Table 2, the coefficient of
the HIV prevalence rate variable is highly significant and negative. The same result is obtained as
concerns indicators of regulation and govermnent effectiveness, which are available for some 60
developing countries (third and fourth columns of Table 2). By contrast, there is little evidence that the
quality of the legal system or the extent of democracy were affected by the HIV epidemic.
HIVIAIDS and GDP growth. For Africa with an average HIV prevalence rate of 8.7 percent, the
rate of growth of GDP per capita was reduced by about 0.7 percentage points per year in the 1 990s. The
implication is that Africa's per capita income would have grown at a rate of 1.1 percent per year in the
absence of HIV/AIDS, i.e. nearly three times as fast as was achieved in the 1990s.
14   Published by the World Health Organization (WHO) in its Weekly Epideniological Record, 8/13/99,
www.who.int/wer.



78
Table 2: Macroeconomic Outcome, Institutional Variables, and BIIV/AIDS 1/
(Ordinary Least Squares Estimates)
Dependent Variables
Macroeconomic  Regulation 3/    Government
Policy Rating                    Effectiveness 3/
(1998) 2/
Constant                             1.57             -1.31**         -1.77
(1.0)           (-2.4)           (-1.5)
Log of GDP per capita (1990) 4/      0.16             n.s.            -0.09
(0.5)                            (-0.4)
Secondary school enrollment rate (1990)  -0.003       0.001           0.002
(-0.3)          (0.2)            (0.4)
Growth rate of GDP per capita (1980-90)  0.2         -1.73            0.44
(0.04)          (-0.5)           (0.14)
Log of phone per capita (1994)       0.13             0.26**          0.25
(0.7)           (2.4)            (1.7)
Institutional Country Rating (1990) 5/    0.019*      0.009           0.025**
(2.4)           (1.19)           (3.14)
Log of HIV prevalence rate (1997)    -0.21**          -0.17*          -0.12
(-2.4)          (-2.0)           (-1.6)
Log of HIV, squared                  -0.058**        -0.051**         -0.048
(-2.1)          (-2.8)           (-3.2)
Dummy variable for Southern Africa   1.1**            0.96**          0.58*
(2.7)           (2.3)            (1.9)
Rv2                                  0.25             0.38            0.45
No of observations                   58               61               60
Notes:
1/   Heteroscedasticity-consistent t statistics in parentheses (White correction). ** indicates that
the coefficient is statistically significant at the 5% level; * indicates statistical significance
at a 10% level.
2/   World Bank unpublished ratings.
3/   Kaufman D.,Kray A., and Zoido-Lobaton, P. "Governance Matters" World Bank Working
Paper No. 2196 (October    1999).
4/   In purchasing power parity terms.(World Development Indicators).
5/   Institutional Investor Guide; average economic rating by country (1990).



79
Table 3: Economic Growth and HIV/AIDS (1990-97) 1/
Rate of Growth of GDP Per Capita
(1990-97)
Constant                                            0.12**
(2.3)
Log of GDP per capita (1990) 2/                     -0.03**
(4.1)
Log of number of phones per person (1994)           0.019**
(-2.9)
Macroeconomic policy rating (1998) 3/               0.01 **
(2.0)
Rule of law rating (1995-96) 4/                     0.016**
(2.6)
Primary school enrollment rate (1990)               0.0004**
(2.3)
Malaria morbidity rate (1990) 4/                    -7.6E-07
(-1 .9)*
R2                                                  0.33
No of observations                                  83
Notes:
1/    Heteroscedasticity-consistent t statistics in parentheses (White correction). ** indicates that the
coefficient is statistically significant at the 5% level; * indicates statistical significance at a 10%
level.
2/   In purchasing power parity terms.
2/   World Bank unpublished ratings.
3/   From: Kaufman D.,Kray A., and Zoido-Lobaton, P. "Governance Matters" World Bank
Working Paper No. 2196 (October 1999).Kaufman (1999).
4/   Morbidity data is from WHO. It was expressed as a rate per 100,000
15    Developed countries were excluded partly due to the lack of data concerning some of the policy variables
that were used in the economnetric estimation, and partly because the spread of HIV in Europe reflects different
causes (non-heterosexual) than Africa.
16    This is the sum of the reduction in growth per capita (1.2 percent) and the fall in population growth (1.6
ercent)
17    This is based on some 30 sub-Saharan African countries for which data was available. The cost of triple
antiretroviral therapy was not included in these estimates. However, they include the cost of antiretroviral treatment
to prevent parent-to-child transmission of HIV.
IS    For simulation purpose the cost of the antiretroviral drugs is assumed to be US$1,400 per patient per year,
which is much lower than current conmercial costs.
19   "Confronting AIDS". World Bank Research Report (1997).
20    The share of female labor in the industrial sector was taken as an indicator of the lack of mnarket opportunities
for women.



80
21   The cost is proportional to the lost earnings resulting from AIDS-related mortality. This means that educated
workers have higher incentives to invest in HIV prevention measures than unskilled workers.
22   "Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic". June 2000, UNAIDS.
23   Published by the World Health Organization (WHO) in its Weekly Epidemiological Record, 8/13/99,
www.who.intlwer.






ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIA MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT (EMSAP)
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Africa Regional Office
AFTH4
Date: August 14, 2000                         Team Leader: Gebreselassie Okubagzhi
Country Director: Oey Meesook                 Sector Manager: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P069886                           Sector(s): MY- Multi-sectoral
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SL) Theme(s): HIV/AIDS
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data:                    Credit A                 Grant
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 59.7 million       SDR 45.2
Proposed Terms: Standard IDA
Grace period (years): 10                 Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Up to 0.5%               Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                Local              Foreign            Total
IDA                    44.0               15.7              59.7
Govenument            2.0                0.0                2.0
Community              1.1               0.0                 1.1
NGOs, etc              0.6                0.0                0.6
Total                  47.7               15.7               63.4
Borrower: Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Responsible Agency: Office of the Prime Minister
Address: P.O. Box 1031
Contact Person: Dr. Dagnachew Haile Mariam
Tel: 251-1-55-77-99      Fax: 251-1-55-20-20   Email:



Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY                 2001/2002           2002/2003             2003/2004
Annual                14.1                20.4                  25.2
Cumulative            14.1                34.5                  59.7
Project Implementation Period: 3 years
Expected Effectiveness Date: December 1, 2000
Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2004
Ethiopia: Multi-Sectoral HIW/AIDS Project
Financial Summary
Total Financing Required          Year 1         Year 2           Year 3
Project Costs
Investment Costs                   13.7            20.4            25.2
Recurrent Costs                     1.0            1.2              1.9
Total Project Costs                14.7            21.6            27.1
Project Financing
IDA                                14.1            20.4            25.2
Communities                        0.3             0.3             0.5
NGO, etc.                           0.2            0.3             0.1
Govemment                           0.4            0.6             1.0
Total Project Financing            15.0            21.6            26.8



Table of Contents
A. Project Purpose, Development Objective, and Strategic Context  84
Project purpose                                              84
Project development objective                                84
Key performance indicators                                    84
Relation to Country Assistance Strategy                      85
B. Main Issues and Strategic Context                             85
Government strategy                                          87
Prevention                                                   88
Care and support                                             88
C. Summary Project Description                                   89
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement                                91
E. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements            94
F. Benefits and Risks                                            98
G. Main Credit Conditions                                      102
H. Compliance with Bank Policies                               102
Attachments:
1. Project Logical Framework                                   103
2. Project Description                                         107
3. Estimated Project Cost Summary                              118
4. Organizational Chart; Project Coordination Unit; Implementation  119
Arrangements for Community Level, NGO, and Private Sector
Interventions; Key Implementation Steps in Project Year 1
5. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                           133
6. Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements 135
7. Project Processing Schedule                                 153
8. Documents in the Project File                               154
9. Statement of Loans and Credits                              155
10. Ethiopia at a Glance                                       156
11. Ethiopia HIV/AIDS Brief                                    158






A. PROJECT PURPOSE, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE, AND STRATEGIC CONTEXT
Project purpose:
1.    The overarching purpose of the project is to reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic, alleviate its impact, and increase access to treatment, care, and support for
those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. The overall project is premised on the
development and expansion of local responses to the epidemic.
Project development objective:
2.    In collaboration with other members of the International Partnership Against AIDS
in Africa (IPAA), the project will help accelerate implementation of the Federal and
Regional Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans, particularly through the provision of
HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment services at all levels and in a number of
sectors. The project will prioritize support for community-driven initiatives.
Key performance indicators:
3.    The following constitute the summary indicators for outputs, process, and impact of
the project:
A. Output Indicators
Access to treatment for opportunistic infections increased from 30 to 50 percent.
The number of national surveillance sites will have increased by 2 in the first year and by 10 by the end of the project.
The number of blood banks will have increased by 25 percent by the end of the project.
At least 70 percent of the participating woredas have implemented their agreed action plans.
EAF disbursements are at least 70 percent of plan level.
B. Process Indicators
Functional HIV/AIDS councils will have increased as follows: regional from I to 11 by the end of the year 1; zonal
from 0 to 20 and woredas from 0 to 165 by the end of year 3 of the project.
Councils at all levels (in participating woredas) have defined work programs in year 2 of the project.
The number of affordable VCT services incorporated into ANC, TB, and STI clinics will have increased by 10 percent
by the end of the project.
Increase in the number of anti-AIDS clubs in high schools: year 1, 25 percent increase and 20 percent increase each in
subsequent two years of the project.
Funds distribution and financial management mechanisms will have been installed within three months of project
effectiveness at the national level.
C. Impact Indicators
Eighty percent of the population will be aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention in participating woredas by the end of
the project.
Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (14-19 years) will increase by 20 percent by the end of the
project.
Prevalence of HIV and STIs will be reduced.
4.    While a more extensive list of indicators appears in the logical framework
(Attachment 1), the project will contribute to its goal of reducing the impact of HIV in
Ethiopia.



85
Relation to Country Assistance Strategy:
5.  The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia was discussed by the
Board of Directors in August 1997. The CAS did not mention HIV/AIDS. The Bank's
recent lending in education and health has dealt with HIV/AIDS inadequately in view of
the current epidemic and its projected impact on society and economic development. The
proposed CAS under preparation will give HIV/AIDS a very prominent place in the
Bank's program of assistance to the country.
B. MAIN ISSUES AND STRATEGIC CONTEXT
6.  HIV/AIDS now poses the foremost threat to Ethiopia's development. Globally,
Ethiopia has the 16th highest HIV/AIDS prevalence rate of any country and the third
largest population of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). One of every 11 people
living with HIV/AIDS today is an Ethiopian. Life expectancy is already falling, and the
epidemic is systematically undermining the country's efforts to reduce
poverty-especially its investments in health, education, and rural development. Beyond
its vast toll in suffering and death, AIDS may also be costing Ethiopia as much as one
percent of economic growth each year, further reducing the scope for poverty reduction.
If it continues unchecked, HIV/AIDS will alter the trajectory of the country's
development by retarding growth, weakening human capital, discouraging investment,
exacerbating poverty and inequality, and leaving the next generation increasingly
vulnerable to the impact of the epidemic. For this reason, HIV/AIDS cannot be viewed
as merely one among many competing priorities in the nation's development. Investing
adequately in HIV/AIDS is now a precondition for virtually all other development
investments to succeed. Ethiopia's future depends on addressing the epidemic forcefully
and fast.
7.  HIV started to spread in Ethiopia in the early 1980s. While data on the Ethiopian
epidemic are imperfect, the following picture can be sketched with a sufficient degree of
confidence. The first evidence of HIV infection was found in 1984 and the first AIDS
case was reported in 1986; HIV/AIDS prevalence was low in the 1980s, but increased
quickly through the 1 990s, and rose from an estimated 3.2 percent of the adult population
in 1993 to some 10.6 percent by the end of 1999. This makes Ethiopia the most populous
country to cross the 10 percent prevalence threshold. Rates among women attending
antenatal clinics at sentinel surveillance sites in Addis Ababa have exceeded 10 percent
for many years and were most recently estimated at 15.1 percent. Even higher rates have
been reported from Gambella (19.0 percent) and Bahir Dar (20.8 percent). There is no
routine surveillance in rural areas, however, where 85 percent of the country's population
live, making both the level and the trend of HIV/AIDS prevalence in these areas difficult
to estimate. Although some data suggest that HIV/AIDS prevalence may be leveling off
in urban areas, the evidence is by no means conclusive and there is no reason to believe
that rates will remain low in rural areas. An estimated 5,000 people are newly infected
each week. If incidence does not drop quickly, one-third of Ethiopians now aged 15
could ultimately die of AIDS.



86
8.  The impact of HIV/AIDS on health in Ethiopia has been devastating. Already, an
estimated 2.9 million Ethiopian adults and 150,000 children are living with HIV/AIDS,
more than in any other country except South Africa and India. More than 900,000
Ethiopian children are thought to have been orphaned by AIDS. In many urban areas,
half of the hospital beds are now occupied by AIDS patients. About 90 percent of
reported AIDS cases are among adults between the ages of 20 and 49, the most important
years from both an economic and a parenting standpoint. Among this group, AIDS is
now the leading cause of death. By 2014, the number of AIDS deaths each year will be
about 525,000-more than twice the 230,000 that will be expected without AIDS.
9.   The two most important risk factors involved in the spread of HIV infection are
unprotected sex, and having a sexually transmitted infection (STI). The peak ages for
AIDS cases are 20-29 for females and 30-39 for males-which indicates that the peak
ages for HIV infection are 15-24 for females and 25-34 for males. With most infections
acquired through heterosexual contact, a roughly equal number of men and women are
infected. However, women are infected earlier, often before the age of 20, because of
earlier sexual activity and the fact that they often have older partners. HIV differs from
most other STIs in that 15-24 age bracket, infection rates can be as much as 5-6 times
higher among women than among men.
10. Stigma, fear, and denial are still common among the population and HIV/AIDS is
also still perceived as a health issue. However, civil society has started mobilizing
against the epidemic, creating a mosaic of small-scale actions promoted by local and
foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs). These actions are largely concentrated
in and around the main cities, and have so far had little impact on the rural population. In
addition, they operate on a limited scale, reaching only a small fraction of the population.
They are not properly funded, and activities often suffer from a "stop and go" syndrome
due to irregular and insufficient funding. As illustrated by the abundance of didactic
material available in Ethiopia, most NGOs concentrate on public awareness; few focus on
voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), community-based care, or social support. There
is, however, considerable scope for strengthening the activities of national-, regional-,
and local-level civil society agencies to support community-driven initiatives.
11. The interface between local government (woreda, kebele) and local community
govemance structures is strong in Ethiopia. These structures, often used for
governmental mobilization campaigns, can be used as a basis on which the local response
to H1V/AIDS can be built. Ethiopian society also features prominent traditional social
groups such as the edir or mahaber, and religious committees, all of which can be
mobilized in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
12. For all the difficulties in combating the epidemic in Ethiopia, there are grounds for
optimism. Because very few Ethiopian children aged 5-14 are infected with HIV, they
represent a "window of hope" for the country. If they can be taught and empowered to
protect themselves from HIV infection before they become sexually active, they could
avoid HIV infection. In countries with aggressive youth prevention programs, rates
among successive cohorts of young people have dropped significantly (mainly due to
delayed sexual debut). Ethiopia also has a growing number of promising H1V/AIDS



87
initiatives in place, both govermnental and non-governmental-and if the scope of such
efforts can be expanded quickly enough, the course of the epidemic could be altered.
Government strategy:
13. Ethiopia established a National Task Force on HIV in 1985. Two medium-term
prevention and mitigation plans were designed and implemented between 1987 and 1996.
These interventions were inadequate in scale, however, and largely ineffective in
implementation, for lack of adequate stakeholder involvement in planning and
implementation, especially at the community level; coordination and integration across
sectors and among service providers; priority within government, society in general, and
in the international community; and financial and human resources. Programs that were
effective and service providers with proven credentials were simply too few and too
small in scale to have an impact on the spread of the disease. With the HIV/AlDS
situation worsening, the Government-assisted by UNAIDS and donors, and adopting a
process of national consultation with key stakeholders-established a far-reaching policy
for national mobilization. The Policy on HIV/AIDS of the Federal Democratic Republic
of Ethiopia was approved in August 1998. The policy has the overall objective of
providing an enabling environment for the prevention and mitigation of HIV/AIDS. Its
specific objectives are to:
-    ;Establish effective HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation strategies to curb the
spread of the epidemic;
*   Promote a broad, multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS, including more effective
coordination and resource mobilization, by government, NGOs, the private sector,
and communities;
*   Encourage government sectors, NGOs, the private sector, and communities to take
measures to alleviate the social and economic impact of HIV/AIDS;
*   Support a proper institutional, home-, and community-based health care and
psychological environment for PLWHA, orphans, and surviving dependents;
*   Safeguard the human rights of PLWHA and avoid discrimination against them;
*   Empower women, youth, and other vulnerable groups at risk to take action to
protect themselves against HIV/AIDS; and
*   Promote and encourage research activities targeted toward preventive, curative, and
rehabilitative aspects of HIV/AIDS.
14. As the policy framework was being developed, the Ministry of Health coordinated
a process of strategic planning and program development in Ethiopia's nine regions and
two city administrations. This process involved national and regional governmental
institutions, the major regional sector NGOs and religious organizations, and other key
stakeholders. The result was a five-year Federal Level Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Strategic Plan 2000-2004 (costed at US$11 million) and accompanying Regional Multi-
Sectoral HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans 2000-2004 (costed at US$45 million). Together,
these plans were synthesized into the Strategic Framework for the National Response to
HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia for 2000-2004. The framework focuses on reducing the
transmission of HIV and associated morbidity and mortality, and its impact on
individuals, families, and society at large. The strategy is built on four main pillars:



88
multi-sectoralism, participation, leadership, and efficient management (including
adequate monitoring and evaluation). Multi-sectoral and multi-dimensional in nature, the
strategy calls for mobilizing the population at every level, from the individual and the
community to regional and national organizations, and for the use of multiple
implementation channels (the public and private sectors, and national and international
NGOs).
15. The strategy highlights the following priority areas for action:
Prevention:
*   Inprove access to and quality of STI, tuberculosis (TB), and HIV/AIDS prevention,
care, and support services to meet the needs of groups at increased risk of HIV
infection;
*   Increase the provision of comprehensive STI/TB management in health care
facilities;
*   Increase access to education in general and to HIV/AIDS education and
communication in particular;
*   Increase accessibility and availability of condoms;
*   Promote information, education, and communication (IEC) messages that are
continuous, appropriate, acceptable, and effective in inducing behavior change;
*   Contribute to national and local initiatives to alleviate poverty and increase
employment opportunities, particularly for youth and women;
*   Empower women and girls to reduce their risk of HIV infection; and
Prevent HIV transmission in hospital settings.
Care and support:
*   Provide clinical and home/community-based care for PLWHA;
*   Increase social support to PLWHA and their families;
Establish an ethical, legal, and human rights framework for PLWHA;
*   Expand and accelerate sector-specific interventions to mitigate impact; and
*   Increase HIV/AIDS research and surveillance.
16. The expected benefits from this approach are substantial. With regard to the
prevention of HIV, interventions include promoting reductions in the number of sexual
partners, encouraging delays in the onset of sexual activity among adolescents, promoting
the use and availability of condoms, and strengthening programs for STI prevention and
treatment of opportunistic infections, including TB, and preventing parent-to-child
transmission (PTCT).
17. The National AIDS Prevention Council was established in April 2000. In opening
the first meeting of the Council, the President of Ethiopia, His Excellency Dr. Negaso
Gidada, said, "It is high time for all of us to realize that if the [HIV/AIDS] situation is
allowed to continue unabated, we will reach the point where the loss of a generation will
be a real possibility." The Council, which will meet three times a year, is headed by the



89
President of Ethiopia and consists of members from government, NGOs, religious bodies,
and broad representation from civil society. The Council will oversee the
implementation of the federal and regional HIV/AIDS plans, examine and approve
annual plans and budgets, and monitor plan performance and impact. The Council has
appointed a National HIV/AIDS Board of Advisors to meet on a monthly basis to oversee
the plan. More recently, a National AIDS Council (NAC) Secretariat was established
under the Prime Minister's office to coordinate and facilitate implementation activities.
18. The Government expects that if its HIV/AIDS plans receive the support of the
international community, the people and institutions of Ethiopia will have the capacity to
begin to reduce the spread of the epidemic and its enormous burden on society and the
economy. The first phase of the project will last three years, and will expand and
accelerate existing programs, as well as improve the institutional and policy framework
and build more effective monitoring and evaluation (including a process of continual
impact assessments). Based on progress made and lessons learned, Ethiopia will reassess
the impact of this first phase in mid-2002 and will readjust its plans as necessary.
C. SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION
19. The project will finance a US$63.4 million, three-year component of the
Government's 2000-2004 HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans, and will include more than US$28
million for community-driven HIV/AIDS initiatives. The first year of the project will
aim at expanding and accelerating existing prevention and mitigation programs, and
building additional planning, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation capacity.
The second and third years of the project will, on the basis of lessons learned, focus on
mainstreaming the programs and implementation channels evaluated as most effective.
20.  To achieve the above, the project will include support for:
*   Capacity building, by enhancing the planning, implementation, and monitoring
capacity of public, private, non-governmental, and community-based organizations.
Prevention, care, and treatment, by expanding governmental activities that cover the
full spectrum of basic prevention, care, and treatment through a multi-sectoral
approach, largely at the regional level and below. The prevention measures will
include, among others, IEC activities, social marketing of condoms, provision of
VCT, access to STI/TB treatment, empowering vulnerable groups such as women
and youth, and the prevention of PTCT. The project will also help strengthen the
health infrastructure so that antiretroviral (ARV) drugs could be considered once
they become affordable and accessible. Care and mitigation measures will include
improved treatment, social support, and the creation and enforcement of a
supportive legal framework for PLWHA and their families. The project will
strengthen care activities at all levels from home-based care to tertiary care, as well
as orphan care. It will also strengthen communities' capacity to deal with care
issues at a local level. Special attention will be paid to the monitoring and
evaluation of the epidemic to ensure that project components are regularly adjusted
as needed.



90
*   New funding channels, by creating an Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund to provide
grants to community organizations, NGOs, and the private sector for HIV/AIDS
prevention and mitigation measures.
*   Project coordination and implementation arranzements, by establishing an effective
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the NAC Secretariat, which is located in the
Office of the Prime Minister. The PCU will be responsible for the day-to-day
coordination and facilitation of the project.
21. The project will be implemented by a wide variety of public, private, and non-
governmental organizations, both domestic and international, and by community-based
organizations (CBOs).
22. The project will be built around three overarching principles: flexibility, speed,
and coverage.
*   Flexibility. The project will operate in a learning-by-doing mode, continually
refining implementation arrangements and reallocating resources as lessons from
experience emerge and other sources of funding become available.
-   Speed. The project has been designed to ensure implementation can proceed as
quickly as possible, within the limits imposed by capacity constraints. As a national
emergency project, it will be largely exempt from restrictive Government
administrative and budgetary regulations, and will use streamlined procedures such
as community-based procurement and fast-disbursing financial arrangements.
*   Coverage. The project will aim to scale up as quickly as possible. Limited
implementation capacity, however, means the project will have to be built
systematically. At the community level, it is expected that at least 10 percent of the
country's 550 woredas will be added to the project each year. The speed at which
new woredas could be added to the project will largely depend on their demand for
assistance and capacity. If it proves possible for more woredas to take part in the
project, the pace of expansion will be quickened.
23. The project has been developed in full partnership with members of the IPAA,
including the other UNAIDS cosponsors active in Ethiopia. Many IPAA members are
already supporting Ethiopia's HIV/AIDS effort financially or technically. Others may
offer support in the coming months. The project will expand to accommodate all such
support, both by relying on technical expertise of partners wherever appropriate, and by
adding new funding and thereby broadening its scope. (See detailed Project Description
in Attachment 2.)
24. Total project costs are estimated at US$63.4 million, including US$15.7 million in
foreign costs and US$47.7 million in local cost equivalent. The project will be funded by
US$2 million from the Government in cash (in addition, the Government will cover taxes
and duties associated with imports related to the project, which have been valued at a



91
further US$3 million). Other service providers such as NGOs, the private sector, and
CBOs will contribute US$1.7 million in cash and kind, while IDA will provide US$59.7
million. (See Attachment 3, Estimated Project Cost Summary.)
D. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
25. Ethiopia is one of the countries most seriously affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic
in Africa. A significant effort is required at this juncture of the situation in Ethiopia.
Conscious of this, the Government of Ethiopia has enacted an HIV/AIDS policy that calls
for a multi-sectoral response and the participation of multiple stakeholders. Toward this
end, it has also developed a comprehensive five-year plan of action for mitigating the
social and economic impacts of the epidemic. Without an injection of substantial
resources, it will be difficult for the government to implement a program of this
magnitude.
26. This IDA-financed Credit for Ethiopia is in direct accordance with the Bank's
regional HIV/AIDS strategy, Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa:
Responding to a Development Crisis. IDA is in a unique strategic position to support the
Government's Strategic Plan including the mobilization of external resources.
27.  The increased focus on HIV/AIDS is also part of IDA's emerging approach to
combating communicable diseases. IDA is playing a rapidly growing role in bringing
into country policies the importance of HIV/AWDS in addressing such diseases as STIs
and TB. WDA has also pioneered financing of communicable disease prevention in many
other African countries and has developed valuable global experience in supporting
emergency projects involving coordinated responses and partnerships with governments,
donors, NGOs, and communities.
Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
28. The Bank has not had a free-standing HIV/AIDS project in Ethiopia. However, the
IDA- financed HSDP and ESDP projects have by design included HIV/AIDS activities in
their programs. In addition, existing projects in the country's portfolio such as ESRDF,
Roads, Energy, and Agricultural research projects are currently being considered for
retro-fitting to incorporate HIV/AIDS activities. The pace of implementation of both the
health and education projects has been slow and their financial management structures
need further strengthening largely due to a high turnover of technical and administrative
staff.



92
M_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ................ ........  .... ...... ....,_ ... _..............
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
The Health Sector Development Program has  HSDP                            U                S
eight components; the health service delivery
and quality of care comiponent is designed to
address HIV/AIDS from the health service
perspective.
The Education Sector Development Program   ESOP                            U                S
includes HIV/AIDS-related activities in
many of its components
Other Development Agencies
UNICEF
UNDP                              Ongoing programs and
WHO                               projects implemented by
UNFPA                             NGOs
GERMANY
USAID
Netherlands
NORWAY
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
29. The HSDP and ESDP projects are probably the first programns that by design
included HIV/AIDS activities. These are new sector programs that have not been fully
implemented to provide lessons learned at this stage. The experiences generated by
HIV/AIDS programs undertaken by the Ministry of Health for the last 15 years indicate
the following lessons:
*    Attempts to include other non-govenmment sectors will not only help increase
coverage of HIV/AIDS-related activities but also widen the scope of services to be
provided;
*    A sector ministry (MOH) driving a complex program like that of HIV/AIDS, which
demands the involvement of various stakeholders, will not be successful in
generating sufficient interest and command of all stakeholders, thus pointing to the
need for the creation of a National AIDS Council to coordinate the country's
HIV/AIDS response at higher levels of government.
*    Implementation of HIV/AIDS in a decentralized environment requires substantial
attention during the transition period. Although decentralization processes require



93
time and capacity building, empowering regions and communities for effective
local response in the fight against the epidemic is essential.
*   While a number of NGOs are involved in HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support,
there is need for more efficient coordination mechanisms.
*   Initially HIV/AIDS was addressed mainly as a health issue and hence all activities
were directed and implemented by the health sector. Global and local experiences
reveal that treatment of HIV/AIDS as a health issue alone will not address the
complex issues involved in HIV/AIDS prevention. Approaching HIV/AIDS as a
development crisis widens the scope and nature of interventions and ensures better
management of the social-economic impacts of the epidemic.
*   Adequate HIV/AIDS surveillance systems must be strengthened for effective
monitoring and evaluation of the impact of HIV/AIDS interventions.
Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*   National comprehensive HIV/AIDS policies and strategies have been adopted and
are in the process of being implemented;
*   A National AIDS Council (NAC) at the President's Office and its Secretariat at the
Prime Minister's Office has been established to provide overall leadership for
HIV/AIDS activities in the country.
*   Participatory consultations With civil society, the regions, donors, and community
representatives were held to seek guidance, build up ownership, and encourage
local initiatives.
Financial:
NPV=-US$ million; FRR=%
Not applicable
Total (US$63.4 million)
Government         2.0
Community          1.1
NGOs, other        0.6
IDA                59.7
Total Project Cost   63.4
Fiscal impact:
30. For each of the physical works components, the operation and maintenance costs
will be calculated and a commitment required from government to finance and carry out
effective O&M on an annual basis. An annual review of Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) will be carried out three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.



94
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Project implementation:
31. Each project activity will be implemented by the respective line ministry/regional
bureau and NGO, or by local administrations in the case of direct assistance by the
Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF). The implementing agencies will provide progress
reports to the PCU on a quarterly basis. Procurement contracting and payments to
contractors will be undertaken by the respective implementing agencies using World
Bank guidelines, with the assistance of PCU-contracted specialists. Project
implementation arrangements have been streamlined to conform to the emergency nature
of the assistance. Apart from direct support for institutional strengthening of the
government's focal points for project facilitation, the main thrust of the assistance will be
to finance sub-projects that directly address identified needs at the comnmunity or local
level.
32. Consequently, emphasis is placed on the timely flow of funds to implementing
comnmunities and organizations through contractual arrangements. Simplified
procurement, disbursement, accounting, and auditing procedures will be used for sub-
projects implemented by communities, NGOs, private sector firms, and local government
administrative units/committees mandated to execute these sub-projects. These
procedures will be set out in the Operational Manual for the HIV/AIDS Fund. The
Bank's standard procedures for procurement, disbursement, accounting, and auditing will
apply to the funds disbursed to other public or private institutions, as set out in
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits; Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers; and Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank. Pre-financing of expenditures will be
facilitated through the use of two Special Accounts, one of which will be dedicated to the
EA.
33. The role of the PCU, as its name implies, will primarily be one of coordination
rather than implementation. The project implementing agencies will be the Federal
Ministries at the national level, and the Regional Bureaux (RB) at the city government/
administration level, while at the local govermnent level a special focus will be given to
supporting community-level activities, woreda administrations (WAs), or zonal
administrations depending upon the governmental structures in a region. Federal Sectoral
Ministries (FSM) will implement national programs/activities in addition to providing
technical support to RBs. FSM will also facilitate the contracting and importation of
goods for the RBs with the assistance of the procurement consultants in the PCU. The
Regional Secretariats, which will act as the executives of the Regional AIDS Councils
(RACs), will review and consolidate annual HIV/AIDS work programs (AWPs) at the
regional level, channel to the RBs funds from the NAC Secretariat for local expenditures,
and provide training advisory support to WAs or equivalents. In addition, they will
assess all applications from NGOs and private organizations for project assistance for
regional-level programs/activities. The WAs will channel funds to support activities at
the community level that may be implemented by NGOs/POs (private organizations) and
community organizations, including religious establishments.



95
34. The PCU organization chart is provided as Attachment 4. The PCU will be
organized into four main divisions. The procurement division will be supervised by the
Assistant Project Coordinator (APC), supported by a team of procurement consultants.
The projectfacilitation and training division will be headed by the Project Coordinator
(PC) and assisted by a human resource development consultant to coordinate the
facilitation and training activities required under the project. The monitoring and
evaluation division will consist of one consultant reporting to the PC, but essentially
working with the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit of the NAC Secretariat. The
finance division will be headed by a Finance Manager, who will be responsible for the
management of the EAF and the accounting and finance functions of the project. He/she
will be assisted in carrying out these responsibilities by a Financial Controller.
35.   A review of the institutional arrangements pertaining to the project will be
undertaken and completed within three months of Credit effectiveness. The review will
inter alia recommend requisite structural and staffing needs for the NAC Secretariat.
Project supervision, reporting, and audit requirements:
36. The Program Implementation Manual (PIM) will delineate processes and
responsibilities for general management, procurement activities, and financial
management and control, including Terms of Reference for internal and external audits
acceptable to the Bank. The PIM, which will be submitted to the Bank for its approval,
will be finalized no later than three months after the Credit has been approved by the
Bank's Board. As the proposed implementation arrangements are partially based on
experience in other countries, the adaptation of these will need to be seen as a continuous
process responding to local circumstances. Consequently, the PIM will be reviewed and
amended by mutual agreement with the Bank as and when needed, with the first revised
PIM being issued at the first anniversary of the signing of the Credit Agreement. In order
for implementation to proceed without having to wait for the preparation of the PIM,
Interim Program Implementation Procedures (IPIP) will be developed and agreed to by
the Bank, and presented and discussed at a project launch workshop to be held within one
month of Credit signing. All parties managing the implementation of the different
components of the project will participate in the workshop. A second workshop to impart
the contents of the PIM will be held immediately upon its finalization, after consultation
with the Bank.
37. The PCU will submit to the Bank an AWP and on this basis will submit quarterly
progress reports on achievements and problems. Similarly, it will obtain AWPs and
quarterly progress reports from all implementing agencies. The PIM will further
elaborate on reporting requirements.
38. Implementing agencies will provide an annual disbursement forecast to the NAC
Secretariat and the EAF on amounts to be withdrawn from the Special Account on a
quarterly basis. The consolidated forecast for the NAC Secretariat and the EAF will be
submitted by the PCU to the Bank at least 15 days ahead of the forthcoming quarter and
will be accompanied by a quarterly statement on sources and uses of funds. Financial
audits for all accounts and components will be carried out annually in accordance with



96
Bank Guidelines. Financial audits will be submitted to the Bank and to the Audit and
Control Committee of the NAC no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Performance and impact audits as set out in the PIM will also be carried out to assess the
project's contribution to Ethiopia's HIV/AIDS program.
39. IDA's supervision of the project will need to be full-time and staff-intensive, given
the "learning-by-doing" concept used for the project design. It will have to be conducted
for the most part from the Ethiopia Country Office to ensure regular contact and
consultation between IDA and the NAC Secretariat. This will be especially important
prior to Credit effectiveness as a host of activities must be undertaken to maximize
implementation in the three years of the project. In the first project year, IDA staff will
have to take active part in the project launch and PIM review workshops, the workshop to
review implementation progress toward the end of the year, and workshops on project
implementation experience (preferably to take place at two or three decentralized
locations). The supervision needs for the following two years are unlikely to diminish, as
the community-level program will see rapid expansion each year. The project
implementation experience workshops will become an annual feature of the project, so
that lessons learned could be applied. Proper supervision will require at least two
additional full-time staff in the Country Office-an implementation specialist and a
specialist in community mobilization. Supervision support from the Country Office will
also have to include close monitoring by a financial management specialist of the
preparation for a Project Management Report-based disbursements system, as well as
significant engagement/leadership from the Country Representative. (A detailed outline
of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan is provided in Attachment 5.)
Procurement procedures:
40. The above implementation arrangements will be supported by procurement
procedures that take into account the urgency of the project as well as the nature of the
participating institutions. Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999), in particular Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement.
Consulting services by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be
contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World BankBorrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). With respect to the EAF, the Bank's simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments will be used. To facilitate
speedy import of items valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent required urgently for
diagnosis/treatment and institutional strengthening, contracts may be made based on
international shopping and national shopping procedures, respectively, per IDA
Procurement Guidelines (Clauses 3.5 and 3.6) or through procurement from the United
Nations (i.e., L4PSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO), provided contract awards are made
within 12 months of the Credit effectiveness date.
41. Given the urgency ofthe project, a wide-ranging General Procurement Notice
(GPN) for the first year of operations will be placed on the United Nations Development



97
Business web site without a need for hard-copy publication. The Borrower will prepare a
procurement plan for the first year of project operations to be included in the PIM. The
plan will include relevant information on goods, works, and consulting services under the
project as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The
procurement schedule will be updated every quarter and reviewed by IDA.
42. Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be
assessed on an annual basis (in the form of procuremnent/physical audits by an external
agency). In addition to the formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be
conducted periodically. Details of procurement arrangements are provided in Attachment
6.
Financial management:
43. The project will have an adequate financial management system in place by Credit
effectiveness. Appropriate safeguards will be included in the design of the financial
management system; these safeguards include the competitive recruitment of a Finance
Manager and a Financial Controller, each with internationally recognized qualifications,
for the management of the EAF and the project's accounting and financial functions; the
centralization of accounting responsibilities in the PCU; direct payment from the PCU to
woredas and other executing entities; and close links between and analysis of financial
and physical progress reports.
44. Not all executing entities (e.g., line ministries, Regional Secretariats, woredas)
have established financial management systems adequate for the project's demands.
Before disbursing funds to these entities, the PCU will need to confirm that appropriate
financial management systems are in place, including the opening of project bank
accounts and employment of qualified accounts staff
45. A Financial Management Action Plan was agreed with the Borrower at
negotiations; upon completion of this plan and a subsequent assessment of the financial
management system, the project should convert to Program Management Report (PMR)
-based disbursements. The conversion to PvM-based disbursements is expected to
happen at least 12 months after Credit effectiveness.
46. A detailed assessment of the financial management and internal control systems is
presented in Attachment 6.
Disbursement procedures:
47. Timely procurement is only efficient if it is accompanied by timely disbursements.
In the case of community-managed sub-projects, pre-financing of expenditures is
essential as communities are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of funds.
Also at the national or central level, traditional methods of disbursement and the use of
the Special Account pre-financing mechanism has to reckon with the need to open letters
of credit (LC) for virtually all imports, which then leads to Special Account funds being
deposited with the issuing bank as a substitute for IDA special commitments (which are



98
not issued for sums below the procurement prior review threshold). These funds cannot
be replenished until the LCs are cashed, which can take more than six months. In
addition, when a significant amount of the Credit is used to pre-finance project activities
through advances to the local currency project accounts of implementing agencies, the
standard 90-day turnaround time for documentation of expenditures against advances can
rarely be met. Therefore, the authorized allocation for the Special Account based on a
standard four-month cash flow is in most cases not sufficient. Thus, under this Credit the
estimated DA financing for the first four months of project implementation will be
disbursed into two Special Accounts in the National Bank of Ethiopia or a bank
acceptable to IDA. Both Special Accounts will be operated by the PCU.
48. All disbursements against expenditures originating from local currency project
accounts will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). All procurement
contracts not subject to IDA prior review will be disbursed against SOEs and
documentation will be retained by the NS/PMIRS/zonallworeda administrations and
made available for review by IDA financial management and procurement specialists and
project financial and procurement auditors. Expenditures by beneficiaries arising out of
Financing Agreements signed by the EAF or NS/RS/zonal/woreda levels will be subject
to simplified accounting procedures, review of interim reports, and random ex-post
financial, physical, and technical audit to be carried out by financial and technical
consultants employed by the NAC Secretariat and Regional Secretariats.
Key implementation steps in Project Year 1:
49. Given the emergency nature of the project and the need to innovate with
institutional arrangements and flow-of-funds procedures, it is important that project
activities be programmed for early implementation so that the process of "learning-by-
doing" can begin at once. Key implementation steps and deliverables in Project Year 1 to
facilitate this are listed in Attachment 4.
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits:
50.  The project will provide the following benefits to Ethiopia:
*   Improved ability of households and individuals to prevent or cope with HIV/AIDS;
Improved community response and local empowerment in mitigating the impact of
the epidemic;
Reduced poverty through improved income and food security particularly in
vulnerable groups;
Reduced HIV/STI incidence, and better diagnosis and treatment of opportunistic
infections;
*   Increased productivity and significant savings in public and private health care and
expenditures;
*   Increased local capacity to better respond to the HIV/AIDS crisis.



99
51. The project as designed will benefit not only groups at increased risk of HIV
infection such as young people, pregnant women, commercial sex workers (CSWs), long-
distance drivers, members of the defense forces, and traders, but also will address key
sectors such as agriculture, industries, road construction, power and energy, and others.
In addition to helping local communities reduce the adverse effects of HIV/AIDS, the
project will improve the capacity of communities for involvement in other community-
based development programs.



100
Critical risks:
Risk                                  TRisk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Central and regional governments, sector  M                The Ethiopia Country Team, in partnership
ministries, and community leaders may not                  with the UNAIDS Theme Group, the
honor their commitment to participatory                    Secretariat of the NAC, and the PCU, will
development and to the creation of an                      continue to help stimulate demand and
enabling environment.                                      commitmnent at all levels. The decentralized
and participatory implementation will empower
many actors to help sustain political
comnritment.
The denial due to cultural, religious, and other           This will be addressed by developing and
reasons may make it difficult for many actors M            implementing programs, sub-programs, and
to participate effectively in the project.                 sub-projects in a fully transparent and
participatory manner. All these processes will
include civil society and in particular PLWHA.
From Components to Outputs
Some ministries, regions, woredas, kebeles,   S            The processes and documentation required for
NGOs, and POs may lack the capacity and                    sub-programs and sub-projects will be
resources needed to design, coordinate, and                simplified, and standardized project design will
evaluate their respective components of the                emphasize capacity building through massive
comprehensive project.                                    training of executing entities and technical
support at all levels. Facilitation services
provided by NGOs will be deployed from the
regional or national level if local effective
demand is found to be inadequate.
Decentralized implementation entities and    M             Rapid allocation of small resource envelopes
communities may lack the capacity to propose               will permit generalized learning-by-doing.
and manage their sub-programs and sub-                     Woredas have been given a 5 percent
projects.                                                  commission on funds they allocate to
implementing entities to cover their costs.
Perforrnance-based replenishment weeds out
implementing entities whose capacities are not
imnproving. Use of simple procurement and
disbursement procedures for cormmunity-based
investments will be used for a large part of the
project.
Govermnent caution in empowering NGOs   S                  Involve experienced NGOs from other
and CBOs.                                                  countries and from the different regions in
special sessions of Project Launch Workshop to
share experiences and publicize early successes
of NGOs and CBOs across the regions.
Slow disbursement of the loan:          H
- due to limited financial management                      The managers of the finance unit will need to
capacity;                                                  possess internationally recognized
qualifications and to be engaged on highly
remunerative terms. They will lead a team,



101
including an MIS Officer, in the development
and implementation of the project's financial
management system, which will need to be in
place prior to Credit effectiveness.
- due to inadequate procurement procedures                A large part of the project will be implemented
and capacities;                                           using simplified procedures for procurement
and disbursement for community-based
investments. Standard small equipment and
supplies needed in multiple locations will be
procured via a central unit using a structured
contract whereby the deliveries to the end user
will be based on actual demand.
- due to delays in appraisal and approval of              Appraisal and approval of intermediate and
sub-programs and sub-projects.                            small sub-programs and sub-projects will be
decentralized to regional and woreda
coordinating committees, using the subsidiarity
principle. These committees will be provided
with training and opportunities for learning by
doing.
Poor intersectoral collaboration at national,  M          Establishment of HIV/AIDS coordinating
regional, zonal, woreda, and kebele levels.               bodies and committees at these levels will
allow for coordination to take place at the
lowest possible level. Sectoral components
will be managed by sectoral HIV/AIDS
committees.
The highly decentralized implementation  H                Four sets of provisions have been built into the
mechanisms will result in unmanageable                    project design:
fiduciary problems, including misuse of funds.
Accountability to end users via participation in
program and project design and
implementation, and via transparency rules and
use of local languages;
Engagement of highly qualified finance
managers in the PCU and the development of a
financial management system to track and
monitor project expenditures;
A random financial technical and process audit
of all small executing entities, and mandatory
publication of all audit results, complemented
by audits triggered by beneficiary complaints.
Financial audits of all large scale executing
entities;
Integrated reports from executing entities that
link performance to financial reporting.
Overall Risk Rating                    S
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk).



102
On the Bank side:
52. Given the multi-sectoral nature of the country project design, the limited capacity
of the newly created NAC, the number of concerned public and private parties involved
in project implementation, and the use of funding mechanisms through new structures
that have not been tried and tested, Bank supervision and monitoring of project
implementation will require more than standard supervision. The Bank will have to
ensure that: i) funding substantially above current supervision coefficients is provided;
ii) the supervision task team is composed of Bank staff from various sectors and from
both headquarters and country offices; iii) specialists in key fiduciary areas such as
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and social assessment
are part of the supervision team; iv) the HIV/AIDS project receives regular attention from
country and sector management, especially during the first year of implementation; v) at
least one local and one international staff are recruited to support implementation of the
project; and vi) ACTafrica, UNAIDS, and major stakeholders outside the Bank remain
involved in assessing progress. In addition, the existing partnership between the Bank's
country team and ACTafirica should be continued.
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
Effectiveness conditions:
*   The Borrower has adopted the PIM;
*   The Borrower has appointed a Financial Manager and Financial Controller both
acceptable to the Association;
*   The Borrower has established an accounting and financial management system
satisfactory to the Association;
*   The Borrower has appointed a PC, an APC, and a senior procurement consultant
satisfactory to the Association.
Readiness for implementation:
* Preparation of the project implementation plan including the first-year AWP has been
prepared and is being finalized; and
 The procurement plan for first-year activities is completed prior to Credit
effectiveness.
H. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
53. The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Gebreselassie Okubagzhi  Arvil Van Adams    Oey Astra Meesook
Task Team Leader         Sector Manager     Country Director



103
Attachment 1. Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project Logical Framework
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                        Long-term Project Indicators:                            Project Reports:
To mitigate the negative social and ecostotmc impact of WV/AIDS m  The nsumber of people below the absolute poverty ine will
Ethiopia                                                        either stabilize or reduce by the end of S years from the start
of the Project
Life expectancy should stabDiize or bcgms to increase S years
after the start of this Project
Project Development Objective:                                   Outcome/Irpact Indicators:                                                                             (From Purpose tO Goal)
To givC urgent support to scale up and acceerate the rapid       Access to tcRatm ent for opportuMnsc Mfections mireased  Base lire and follow-up surveys               There will be no rmaor drought dunng the life of
miplemeitatbon of the National Strategic Plan m the provisior of  from 30% to 50%.                                                                                     the Project
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services at all levels and m all
sectors.                                                        The nunber of national surveillance sites will have mcreased    Base line and follow-up surveys        Educational opportunities will remain at least as
by 2 withm I' year and by 10 by the end of year 3.                                                     favorable as they are currenttly for Ethtopians.
Reduce HIV/STI                                          Basrlieaadefllo-upsurveys                     _________________
Output from each componcnt:                                     Output Indicators:                                                                                     (From Outputs to Objective)
1. CapacityofHIV/AIDSCouncils,GovermnentAgencies,Non            1.1. Functonamg AIDS Council will have mcreased as       Examnation ofrecords ofthe Secretanatofthe    Continued Govemment support to use of NGOs,
Governmental Organsations (NGOs), Comniuty Based                follows:                                                 NAC.                                          CBOs, POs, and Civil society.
Organzations (CBOs) Prvate sector, and Civil society at al levels                                                         Exasnation of the Consolidated Progress      Contnued Government support to funding
built                                                            * Regional from I to I1, by the end of year lof the project    Report from all Council levels.        mechasims.
' Zonal. fiom O to 20 and Woreda, fron 0 to 165, by the end
of year 3 of te Project
1.2. Councils at all levels (in participatmg Woredas) have
defined Work Programs by the second year of te projec t;



104
2. Govermnental Multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS epidemic   2.1. Drugs for the treatment of STD and tuberculosis and  Reports from MOH, Rib's and health institutions
expanded.                                                      opportumistic diseases will be available in 90f% of health
institutions in participating Woredas by end of the project;
2.2 The nunber of affordable Voluntary Counseling and  Reports from MOH, Rib's and health institutions
Testing services incorporated into ANC, TB and STD clinics
will have increased by 10 % by end of Project;
2.3. Increased use of condoms at last sexual contact among  Annual Surveys
young (14-19) by 20 % by end of year 3;
Reports from MOH, Rib's and health institutions   The condoms distributed will be used by the
2.4. The numnber of blood banks will have incmreased by 25%                                        recipients.
by end of Project;                                     Report fiom PLWHA
2.5. 80% of the population wil be aware of HIV/AIDS and
its prevention in participating Woredas by the end of the
project;                                               Report from Ministry of Educatson
2.6. Increase in the number of active Anti-AIDS Clubs in
High Schools - Year I = 25% increase over base year 2000
with an additional 20% increasc each of the two following
years;_
3. Energency HIV/AIDS conmnunity initiatives and NGOs, CBOs,   3.1. At least 70%/ of the participating woredas have   Found in the Financial and Annual Audit Report
Private sector, Civil society, and PLWHA service delivery fimded.  implemented their agreed action plans;             of the NAC Secretariat
3.2 EAF disbursemnents are at least 70% of the planned level;   Reports and visits to regional health bureaus,
NGOs, Religious Institutions, and Regional
HIV/AIDS Councils.



105
l_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
4. Project activities and resources well coordinated and managed.  4. 1. Procuremen ut will bave becn made functional  Press Report
according to standard practices at national level
Procurement uits will have made procurements with Prect
fUids so accordance with auditable practces as follows:
-National level - withm 3 months of Project effectiveness.
-Regional level - witbin 12 months;
4.2. Funds distribution and financal managemat
mechanisms will have been installed withmn 6 months after
Project effectiveness at the national level
Project Comiponents & Activities:                                                                                      Project Reports:                             (Frorn Cornponents to Outputs)
I. CaaStv bulding for GoveMsnadCivil_socie                     ussg.gMilion                                            Progress Reports                             The disbursement of fumds from the Government
a) Equipping, touimng & providing resosrces to the National Regional,                                                  Audit Reports                                of Etiuopia and The World Bank will proceed
Zonal and Woreda HIV/AIDS Councils to play their role as                                                               Supervision Reports                          according to plan.
coordimators and facihtators
NGOs, CBOs, POs and Civil society participate m
b) Enhainmg capacity of NGOs. Pnvate sector, C1Os to better respond                                                                                                 the trammg programs.
to HIVIAIDS epidemic.
Infonnaion provided to NGOs, CBOs, POs and
2. Exarnsion ofhMult-sectoral terventon to eontrol 1EV/AIDS    USS19.7                                                 Progress Reports                             Civil society to upcoming taimng programs to
Audit Reports                                imtproved capacity.
a) Stengthen STDIB sermces access to STDrIB clinis for                                                                 Supervision Reports
diagnosis, treatment trainng on syndromic appoach and counseling                                                                                                    The policy famework is adequate for moving
for STDmB patients:                                                                                                                                                 forward with the activities of tis Project
b) Expanding voluntary counseling and testing servces                                                                                                               Drugs related to STD/TB treatment and fIV
testng will be available m a timely manner.
c) Promoting the use of condom by expansion of social marketing and
other chanmels;                                                                                                                                                     These will be leaders at the kebele level who will
d) Ensurng safe blood supply with the help of Blood Banks and                                                                                                       be willing to receive trainmg and form HI/AIDS
reducing occupational exposure:                                                                                                                                     Co=nn5tteeg.



106
_c t >  b         9W                         < v.sg3fig x ^                               S; --;:.xv.-*:-x-:
e) Gender specific interventions to help girls and womnen access to                                                                                                 Teachers, social workers and rural cxtension
care, education and economic opportunty;                                                                                                                            workers will accept and use latest information and
materials on HIV/AlDS prevention.
f) Care and support and provide legal framoework for human nghts to
mIV/AIDS affected famnilies.                                                                                                                                        Resistance to HIV/AIDS information by parents
will be mninial in most regions.
g) Mobilize multi-sectoral line mnistrnes to dissemnate IEC niatenals
and mnerventieons in their workplace;
h). Conduct penodic cross-sectoral surveys and organize sentinel
survellance;
i). Disseminating mIV/AIDS mfmnation by IEC mass camnpaign;
3. Errncyv HIV/AIDS Fund                                       US$28.1 Million
Progress Reports
a) Funding connnusty nmtiatives for the care, prevention and control                                                   Audit Reports
of HIV/AIDS;                                                                                                           Superviion Reports
b) Providig matchmg giants for unmternupted and sustam service
deliveey by NGOs, CBOs, PC and Civil society;
c) Expanding the capacity and visibility of PLW1iA to control
HIV/AIDS and to be the custodians of humnan nghts agamist stgma,
denmal and discrmnnati
4. Proiect Coordination and Managenient                        US$60 Million                                           Progress Reports
Program Planning;                                                                                                      Audit Reports
PCU Opeations;                                                                                                         Supervision Reports
Fund Management;
Accounting FMS;
Economic & Social Assessmente
Motutonng and Evaluation.



107
Attachment 2. Project Description
Component 1: Capacity Buildingfor GovernmentAgencies and Civil
Society (US$8.8 million)
The purpose of this component is to enhance the institutional capacity of
governmental agencies, civil society, and the private sector at the national, regional,
zonal, woreda, and kebele levels, to plan and execute multi-sectoral activities to combat
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The component will strengthen a) the National AIDS Council
(NAC) and its decentralized bodies; b) government agencies; and c) NGOs, the private
sector, and CBOs.
Capacity-building support will consist of the deployment of skilled and
experienced manpower to staff essential structures; the provision of equipment and
materials; and training and technical support, especially in areas essential to
implementation (which will include program development, expansion and outreach,
financial management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation).
a)   Strengthening the National AIDS Council and Its Decentralized Bodies
Ethiopia recently created AIDS Councils and Secretariats at the national level and
in five of the country's regions, including two of the major urban areas. These structures
need strengthening, and similar structures have to be created in six other regions in order
to achieve national coverage.
The NAC Secretariat, which is responsible for coordinating Ethiopia's response to
the HIV/AIDS epidemic by providing guidance and facilitation to decentralized bodies
and other institutions (e.g., NGOs, the private sector, CBOs), will be provided financial
and material support, and endowed with the capacity to monitor and evaluate the project.
The regional' HIV/AIDS Councils and their Secretariats are key institutions in the
fight against HIV/AIDS, and will play a leading role in helping the Government to
implement the project in a decentralized way and to provide support to woredas and
kebeles to deliver community-level programs. The majority of regional HIV/AIDS
council members will be from civil society, based on agreed composition lists. The heads
of the regional secretariats will be selected by the regional HIV/AIDS councils using a
competitive process that will ensure the identification of a competent coordinator with
good technical, organizational, and managerial skills. A Regional Secretariat will have
at least three technical staff-a Head of Secretariat who will also act as a Project
Coordinator, a Financial Manager, and a Program and Training Officer. The Financial
Manager (with appropriate internationally recognized qualifications) and the Program
and Training Officer will also be selected on a competitive basis. The project will
I   A small part of the assistance planned for regions will be used for zones, which are administrative
units within regions but do not generally operate within a participatory franework in the way that woredas
and kebeles do. In Southern Nations and Nationalities and People's Region, however, zones play a role
akin to that of a small region.



108
finance initial equipment and materials as well as operating costs for the regional
secretariats.
Woreda HIV/AIDS councils will be responsible for coordinating HIV/AIDS-
related activities carried out in woredas, in particular information dissemination,
facilitating the formation of kebele HIV/AIDS committees, organizing training on project
preparation, and encouraging communities to prepare projects for funding. The kebele
HIV/AIDS committees will focus on raising community awareness of HIV/AIDS,
deciding on what HIV/AIDS activities should be submitted to a woreda for financing,
implementing HIV/AIDS prevention, mitigation, and care activities, and providing
feedback on their impact. The majority of members of both woreda councils and kebele
committees should be from civil society, and should include representatives of religious
organizations, youth, women, and PLWHA. The project will build capacity at these
levels by funding running costs, basic equipment and materials, workshops, training, and
outreach activities.
b)  Improving Government Agencies' Multi-Sectoral Implementation Response
Capacity
Government efforts to improve multi-sectoral institutional capacity to expand and
inplement HIV/AIDS activities will focus on 10 ministries and commissions on the front
line in combating the epidemic: the Ministries of Health, Defense, Education,
Agriculture, Labor and Social Affairs, Information and Culture, Trade and Industry, the
Women's Affairs Office, and the Commissions of Science and Technology and of
Disaster Prevention and Preparedness. The objective will be to mainstream HIV/AIDS
concerns and activities in these agencies.
The project will finance, for each agency, based on detailed institutional
improvement plans, equipment and material, staff training, and technical assistance. The
latter will be provided in the areas of program innovation, expansion, and
implementation; policy and planning review; outreach activities; and the monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of HIV/AIDS prevention, mitigation, and care activities.
c)   Enhancing the Capacity of Civil Society to Respond to the HIV/A1DS Epidemic
While the private sector and international NGOs working in Ethiopia have the
capacity and resources to develop and implement HIV/AIDS programs, local NGOs and
CBOs will benefit from support to improve and expand their institutional capacities. The
project will provide funding in the form of training, workshops on important thematic
areas and planning/implementation, and the provision of a limited amount of equipment,
material, and other costs to scale up their activities. In addition, NGOs and religious
organizations will be contracted to mobilize and support CBOs in the areas of community
organization, training, and technical services, especially in parts of the country where
CBOs are weak.
Funding for capacity building for FY2000/2001 should be allocated on the basis of
an inventory of relevant ongoing government, donor, and NGO-financed capacity-
building activities, leading to the definition of priorities and criteria. The inventory/



109
prioritization exercise will be managed by the PCU and the results considered and
approved by the NAC. The FY2001/2 and FY2002/3 tranches will be approved by the
National Advisory Board formed by the NAC.
Component 2: Expanding Governmental Multi-Sectoral Response
(US$19.7 million)
The purpose of this component will be to support a major expansion of HIV/AIDS
activities being implemented by Government entities. Sixteen ministries, agencies, and
NGOs with formal links to the Government have prepared sound, costed HIV/AIDS .
plans as part of Government's strategic planning process.2 The plans include activities
targeted both at the staff and the clients of the implementing agencies. All these entities
will be eligible for support under the project, as will additional ministries and agencies
once they develop their own plans. The plans encompass the full spectrum of activities in
prevention, treatment, care, and support. The framework below is derived from these
plans and presents an illustrative (but not exhaustive) list of activities to be supported
under Components 2 and 3.
Expansion of STI/TB services adapted to the needs of specific groups at increased
risk:
*    JCreation of user-friendly STI clinics focusing on commercial sex workers (CSWs)
and their clients in red-light districts;
*    Training of CSWs in red-light districts in order for them to provide peer counseling
to other CSWs;
*    Provision of user-friendly STI/TB services for adolescents; and
*    Provision of HIV/AIDS-related information, and referral to VCT centers as
appropriate.
Management of STIs:
*    Training of trainers at the regional level on the syndromic approach to STI
management;
*    Training of health personnel on the syndromic approach at the zonal, health center,
and health station levels;
*    Provision of STI treatment in all health facilities using the syndromic approach;
*    Systematic screening of pregnant women during antenatal care with the standard
kits, down to the health center level (and including partner referral); and
2    The Ministries of Health, Labor and Social Affairs, Education, Defense, Information and Culture,
Agriculture, Trade and Industry, Transport and Communications; the Women's Affairs Office of the Prime
Minister's Office; the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission; the Coffee and Tea Authority;
the Christian Relief and Development Association; the Ethiopian Red Cross Society; the Society for the
Advancement of Human Rights Education; the Organization for Social Services for AIDS; DKT-Ethiopia
(social marketing firn); and the Science and Technology Conmmission. The plans are synthesized in the
Summary of Federal Level Multi-sectoral HI VIADS Strategic Plan 2000-2004.



110
*   Provision of HIV/AIDS-related information, and referral to VCT centers as
appropriate.
Condom promotion and accessibility:
*   Expansion of condom social marketing countrywide, including in remote rural
areas;
*   Ensuring the availability of condoms in all hotel rooms countrywide;
*   Installing and regularly supplying condom boxes in bars, hotels, restaurants, barber
shops, taxis, etc;
*   Regularly supplying condoms in AIDS clubs in junior high and high schools;
*   Increased condom promotion among civil society groups, particularly among the
military and police; and
*   Examination of means to adapt expiration dates printed on condoms to the
Ethiopian calendar.
IEC campaigns:
Producing audio messages in the main languages for broadcast on national and
regional radios;
Preparation and distribution of IEC materials specific to various audiences;
Use of folk entertainment in HIV/A1DS campaigns, particularly in rural areas;
*    JUse of sports (e.g., AIDS football clubs) and sports heroes as advocates;
Supporting and encouraging PLWHA to participate as advocates in HIV/AIDS
campaigns;
*   Strengthening AIDS clubs in schools by:
- establishing formal linkages with the school in order to ensure proper and regular
functioning;
- training selected students to provide peer counseling;
- providing audiovisual (television, video) and audio equipment;
*   Producing short, engaging video spots to broadcast on national television and
disseminating them through video to theaters (between movies);
Financing HIV/AIDS-related dramas by theater groups, puppet shows, drummer
and dancers groups, etc.;
*   Mass production of audio cassettes containing popular songs, interspersed with
engaging IEC messages for wide dissemination;
*   Production of highly engaging posters in major languages countrywide;
*   Producing, printing, and disseminating comic strips on HIV/AIDS-related subjects
specifically designed for populations with low literacy levels; and
Maximizing involvement of religious leaders and organizations in IEC efforts.
Gender-specific interventions:
*   Development of age-appropriate IEC messages for women of reproductive age (15-
49);



III
*   Involving representatives of the Committee against Harmful Traditional Practices in
HIV/AIDS councils and committees at local levels;
*   Provision of life-skills training for young girls; and
*   Micro-financing programs for those infected and affected.
Ensuring a safe blood supply and preventing occupational exposure:
*   Standardizing and disseminating universal precaution guidelines to health care
workers in the formal and non-fornal sectors;
*   Provision of requisite supplies and services to ensure observation of universal
precautions by health workers in the formal and non-formal sectors, including
traditional birth attendants (TBAs);
*   Training health personnel to minimize the risk of occupational exposure to HIV;
*   Training health personnel and hospital clinicians on the appropriate use of blood or
blood alternative (e.g., plasma expanders);
*   Equipping all hospitals (where surgery is being performed) with blood bags and
WIV rapid tests (and possibly also hepatitis B and syphilis testing) to facilitate
immediate transfusion with blood collected from relatives; and
*   Training of laboratory technicians on HIV testing and guidelines for blood
transfusions.
Care and support:
Care ofpeople living with HIVWAIDS:
*   Training of health workers in diagnosis and clinical management (i.e., recognition
of AIDS-related conditions, the use of available standardized treatments, and
carrying out the requisite follow-up in terms of the medical and psychosocial
services needed for the patient and household);
*   Provision of essential drugs for the treatment of opportunistic infections; and
*   Support and training for home- and community-based care for AIDS patients and
their household members.
Social support for people living with HIVWAIDS:
*   Provision of social support (household assistance including the care of orphans and
vulnerable children, school fees, food supplements) to those infected with
HIV/AIDS;
*   Provision of home-based social support by social workers (hired at the health center
level) performing outreach activities to those infected with HIV/AIDS; and
*   Training of home-based care providers, such as training to involve PLWHA.



112
Alleviation of the social impact of HIV/AIDS:
*   Enforcing the legal framework related to the protection of PLWHA; and
*   Providing IEC on the reduction of stigma and discrimination faced by PLWHA and
their households.
It is anticipated that all ministries will serve as channels for IEC messages. The list
below is relevant to ministries that will serve as primary providers of the indicated
services.
Education:
*   Beginning HIV/AIDS education during the final year of primary education;
*   Including HIV/AIDS/STI information in school curricula (social science, biology,
health hygiene, civic education, etc.) from the junior high school level on up;
*   Linking HIV/AIDS club activities with classroom-based activities and exploring
means of increasing the appeal/effectiveness of these clubs (provision of
membership items, such as T-shirts, etc.);
Developing guidelines, training, and materials for teachers;
*   Supplying selected school HIV/AIDS clubs (based on regular activities or contests)
with televisions, VCRs, or audio material;
*   Designing, printing, and distributing age-appropriate, high-quality, self-explanatory
brochures directed at high-school students, aiming to disseminate the information
within the student's household.
Trade and Industry and Transport and Communications:
Providing targeted IEC, distribution, and advocacy of condoms to long-distance
truck drivers and service workers, including CSWs.
Defense:
*   Providing targeted IEC, distribution of condoms, and STI treatment to military
personnel.
Agriculture:
Providing IEC through agricultural extension workers and Service Cooperatives,
and to agricultural workers in state farms.
Women 'g Affairs:
*   Involving representative(s) of the Committee against Harmful Traditional Practices
in AIDS councils at the central and regional levels.



113
Labor and Social Affairs:
*   Involving this sector to ensure care and support activities in addition to workplace
interventions.
Information:
*   Providing the necessary support for transmitting key messages through the major
media.
Science and Technology Commission:
*   Providing support to research institutions to conduct HIV/AIDS-related studies.
Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission:
*   Promoting and supporting HIV/AlDS activities in refugee camps and internally
displaced populations.
HIV/AIDS research:
*   Conducting periodic cross-sectional surveys of sexual behavior, representative of
the whole country (urban/rural mix and population diversity) using standardized
methodology and questions, and providing training, supervision, and quality-control
checks;
*   Identifying critical determinants of behavior change among young people,
especially young girls;
Monitoring the socioeconomic impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
*   Identifying behavioral and attitudinal factors to limiting condom use among men
and women (both adolescents and adults);
*   Organizing a pilot study on female condom use by CSWs; and
*   Examining alternatives to HIV testing of blood (e.g., use of saliva-based tests,
urine).
HIV/AIDS surveillance:
*   Organizing antenatal clinic-based sentinel surveillance for the whole country
(number of sites and size of sample proportional to the urban/rural mix and
population size), using a simple reliable rapid test, and providing training,
supervision, and quality-control checks; and
*   Exploring the possibility of linking biological and behavioral surveillance for HIV,
especially among young people.



114
Other interventions:
Expansion of VCT services, including the establishment of linkages with
appropriate follow-up services (e.g., contraception promotion among women of
reproductive age) down to the health center level.
During the life of the project, the Government will review the case for piloting
programs to prevent PTCT, and strengthening the health infrastructure for ARV drug
therapy if and when it becomes accessible and affordable. Pursuant to Government
guidelines and national ethical clearance, such programs will be considered for support
under the project.
Funds for this component will be disbursed directly to participating government
agencies from Special Account B. For FY2000/20001, the initial allocation will be made
on the basis of the most pressing immediate needs. During the first weeks of
implementation, the PCU will carry out diagnostic work, possibly by contracting it out, to
identify additional needs. This work will comprise an inventory of ongoing HIV/AIDS
activities being carried out by the various government entities, a basic assessment of their
overall effectiveness, and a prioritization between various potential programs on the basis
of capacity in place. This work will be approved by the National Advisory Board by 30
November, 2000.
For subsequent years, each national-level structure will be responsible for
submitting an Annual Action Plan to the PCU. Funds will be disbursed against agency
annual HIV/AIDS work programs (AWPs) approved by the National Advisory Board.
Annual plans will be expected to place special emphasis on reaching vulnerable groups
such as youth, street children, CSWs, and mobile populations including the military and
refugees (as relevant within the mandate of the implementing agency). Before funds
could flow to a regional bureau of a participating agency, a Regional AIDS Council
(RAC) and Secretariat will need to be established.
Component 3: The Emergency HIVWAIDS Fund (US$28.1 million)
The Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF) aims to expand the response of
communities, NGOs, and the private sector to better manage the epidemic crisis. This
demand-driven fund will channel funds directly to NGOs, religious organizations, the
private sector, and local communities on a cost-sharing basis to finance multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS programs. The EAF will have the following fundamental characteristics:
*   Participatory identification and selection of local HIV/AIDS initiatives;
*   Mandatory counterpart contributions of selected NGOs and private sector
recipients;
*   Transparent management of resources;
*   Local implementation of HIV/AIDS initiatives;
*   Random ex-post technical, financial, and impact audits;
*   A fast-disbursing financial system; and
*   Periodic and regular financial and impact reporting.



115
The EAF will have two windows: one for NGOs and the private sector, the other
for local community initiatives in woredas and kebeles. Funding will be subject to
contractual arrangements, with obligations to report, plus results-oriented and
monitorable indicators and clearly defined financial accountability and transparency.
EAF payments will be disbursed directly to woredas.
For NGOs and the private sector, EAF matching funds will be provided only for a
positive list of eligible HIV/AIDS activities and will cover prevention, care, support,
treatment, and behavior change-related activities. Cost contributions will be in cash and
will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, but minimum contributions envisaged are 10
percent from local NGOs, rather more from international NGOs, and 20 percent from the
private sector. Activities covered will include EC, awareness, and prevention
campaigns, the preparation and diffusion of didactic material in local languages (radio,
video, pamphlets, newsletters), VCT activities, condom distribution, promotion of
HIV/AIDS-related drama and folk shows, support to orphans, and AIDS community-
based care initiatives. These will also include income-generating activities, support to
HIV/AIDS clubs, financial assistance to AIDS patients and orphans, provision of drugs
for opportunistic infections, sensitization campaigns against stigma and discrimination,
promotion of behavior changes, psychosocial support, targeted life-skills training to
vulnerable groups, school fees, and food allowances. The cost sharing will be in cash and
reviewed on a case-by-case basis, but minimum contributions envisaged are 10 percent
from the NGOs and 20 percent from the private sector. The selected programs could be
at the national, regional, andlor local levels.
The funding for local initiatives through woreda administrations (WA) and to
kebeles will cover the same range of activities in prevention, care, support, treatment, and
behavior change. The cost-sharing will be in kind, labor, or cash, with a minimum
contribution of five percent from the community.
The project will expand support to PLWHA. It will increase their capacity,
visibility, and activities to better mitigate the epidemic, in addition to addressing human
rights and fighting against stigma, denial, and discrimination. In addition to the above-
mentioned activities, the EAF will provide funding to PLWHA associations in the areas
of care and support for affected families, training for succession planning and positive
living, social and household support, the promotion of advocacy, the creation of PLWHA
organizations and networks, and updates on medical research. The list of eligible
activities under the EAF will be the same as the illustrative list provided above for
Components 2 and 3 of the project.
Since the EAF is meant to promote demand-driven initiatives from NGOs, the
private sector, and communities, an intensive promotional campaign will be undertaken
by the NAC and RACs in collaboration with local governments and NGOs.



116
The proposed implementation arrangements for the component will be based on the
following principles: i) participatory identification of needs by the concerned recipients;
ii) flexibility and simplicity, with phased empowerment of local communities and gradual
enlargement of the range of local initiatives; iii) implementation of HIV/AIDS initiatives
by NGOs, private contractors, or communities themselves; iv) ownership, transparency,
and accountability at all levels based on clear contractual agreements; and v)
responsibility for technical supervision, monitoring, and evaluation of the HIV/AIIDS
initiatives in the hands of the NAC and RACs.
A National Review Board of the NAC will be established to select NGOs and
private sector proposals at the national and inter-regional levels. Likewise, a Regional
Review Board of the RAC will select NGO/private sector proposals of regional and local
scope. These reviews will be guided by criteria and procedures to be included in the
Program Implementation Manual (PIM). Upon approval, instructions will be sent to the
EAF to effect direct payments to the recipient's bank account.
The amount of funds provided for each NGO/private sector proposal will depend
on the targeted population, the prevalence rate, and criteria relating to activity eligibility.
For national-level activities a limit of US$500,000 per proposal, with appropriate
tranching, will initially be observed. For regional-level activities the limit will be
US$200,000 per proposal, with tranching. These limits will be reviewed with experience.
They will not apply to proposals specifically intended to procure and distribute inputs
such as condoms or drugs for opportunistic infections; financing for these will be
determined on the basis of coverage. A contractual agreement will be signed with the
recipient describing proposal content, mutual obligations, payment modalities, and
penalties in case of financial mismanagement.
EAF funding for local government and community initiatives is expected to reach
at least 30 percent of Ethiopia's woredas during the three years of project
implementation.3 The access of communities to this fund will be based on clear and
specific eligibility criteria to be detailed in the PIM. For first-time eligibility, criteria will
include establishment of an HIV/AIDS community forum at the woreda level,
appointment of project facilitation staff, and provision of training to representatives of
beneficiary communities. Each participating woreda will receive an initial allocation
based on a sum of US$1,000 per kebele. Funds will be disbursed directly to the WA's
bank account, and will be replenished upon satisfactory use of each tranche in accordance
with the procedures set out in the PIM.
Component 4: Project Coordination and Management (US$6.8 million)
The project organization chart is provided as Attachment 4. The overall
management and coordination of the project will be entrusted to a PCU in the NAC
Secretariat. The PCU will be a lean structure, with management of most day-to-day
3    In order to have a real impact on the epidemic, EMSAP should reach national coverage in the
shortest possible time. If during project implementation it becomes evident that implementation of EAF
can proceed more quickly than foreseen, particularly with regard to coverage of woredas/kebeles, then the
EAF will accelerate its operations.



117
activities being the responsibility of executing line ministries, regional secretariats and
bureaux, and zonallworeda administrations. The main responsibilities of the PCU will be
coordination, liaison, supervision, monitoring, and longer-term planning and policy
support. In addition, it will oversee the financial management and procurement functions
of the project.
The PCU will be headed by a Project Coordinator (PC), who will be supported by
an Assistant PC. They will oversee a core of expert contract staff selected to handle the
financial and procurement aspects of the project. To facilitate the programming,
coordination, and monitoring of project operations, the PCU will, through the Secretariat,
report to the NAC Board of Advisors. The Board will convene once a month to review
the progress of the project, to ensure complementarity and efficient coordination of the
activities of the different project components, and to consolidate activity plans, budgets,
and progress reports.
The PCU will prepare documents for the NAC Secretariat to submit to the Board,
including consolidated AWPs, related annual budget proposals, and regular
progress/performance reports. These will be based on the AWPs and budgets prepared
by the executing agencies of the different project components and activities.



118
Attachment 3. Estimated Project Cost Summary ($US million)
Component                              Indicative    % of     Bank       % of
Costs        Total    Financing  Total
(US$M)                 (US$M)   Bank
Financing
1. Capacity Building for Government    8.8           14       7.6        13
Agencies and the Civil Society
2. Expand Government Multi-sector      19.7          31       19.0        32
Response                                                          .
3. Emergency H1V/AIDS Grant Fund       28.1          44       26.4       44
4. Project Coordination                6.8           11       6.7         11
Total Project Costs                    63.4          100      59.7        100
Project Cost by Category               Local         Foreign        Total
US$ Million   US$ Million    US$ Million
Investment Costs
Equipment                              0.3           10.5           10.8
Furniture                              0.4           0.0            0.4
IEC Materials                          3.1           0.0            3.1
Vehicles                               0.0           0.6            0.6
Training                               5.9           0.0            5.9
Intemational Technical Assistance      0.0           2.6            2.6
Local technical Assistance             4.6           0.0            4.6
Grants to Communities, NGOs & PLWHA    24.4          0.0            24.4
Total Investment Costs                 38.8          13.7           52.5
Recurrent Costs
Staff Salaries                         0.7           0.0           0.7
Operations & Maintenance               1.9           0.0            1.9
Stationery & Office Expenses           0.7           0.0           0.7
Total Recurrent Costs                  3.4           0.0            3.4
Total Baseline Costs                   42.1          13.7           55.8
Physical Contingencies                 1.6           1.4            3.0
Price Contingencies                    3.9           0.7            4.6
Total Project Costs                    47.7          15.8           63.4



119
Attachment 4. ETHIOPIA MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL AIDS   |
COUNCIIL      IMINISTER'S
____________I iOFFICE
ADVISORY BOARD
SUB-COMITEES
NAIIONAL SECRETARIAT
PROJECT COORDN. UNIT
| EAF MANAGMENT                          LINE MINISTRIES
REGIONAL AIDS COUNCIL         NATIONAL-LEVEL
NGOs/POs
REGIONAL SECRETARIAT\
WOREDA AIDS COMMITTEE        REGIONAL BUREAUS
WOREDA                ZONAL DEPARTMENTS
ADMINISTRATION
f KEBELE AIDS COMMITTE
KEBELE ADMINISTRN.
LOCAL-LEVEL
NGOs/POs/CBOs
* EAF= EMERGENCY HIV/AIDS FUND



120
Project Coordination Unit
HEAD
PROJECT
COORDINATOR
ASST.OPRDINAT           M&E                PROGRAM         FINANCE MANAGER
COORDINATOR     CONSULTANT          FACILITATION &
I  TRAINING     FIN. CONTROLLER
PROCUREMENT                                                          ,
TEAM - 2                                              ACCOUNTS &
CONSULTANTS                                               FINANCE       EAF



121
Implementation Arrangements for Community-Level, NGO,
and Private Sector Interventions
Under the project, a large number of initiatives will take place at the community
level. The presumption is that effective local actions can only happen if the beneficiary
communities (BCs) take direct responsibility for activities that aim to benefit them.
Consequently, the role of government is to provide facilitating support. The approach
requires that the BCs should feel involved in all phases of the programs addressing their
needs. Thus, participation by a community has to be an overriding consideration in
designing project procedures, including procurement, financial management, and funds
disbursement. Bank international experience in such community-level investment
operations has shown that participation can be a good substitute for controL For all
these functions, but particularly for procurement and disbursement, project staff, and
beneficiaries will have to be much more extensively trained than for normal Bank-
assisted projects, because numerous tasks will be performed by decentralized units and
people who have little experience with them. Also, there will have to be support for a
strong EEC campaign that will, firstly, create awareness among potential beneficiaries of
the assistance available under the Credit, and secondly, make available to communities,
associations, NGOs, and private and public bodies standardized agreement/contract forms
to enable communities to apply for assistance and to manage sub-projects.
Assistance to communities:
The EAF will provide assistance to communities in the following ways:
*   By providing annual grants to WAs, which, after approving applications, will send
these funds to communities for carrying out HIV/AIDS- related activities according
to criteria established by EAF; and
*   By government contracting with a private agency or NGO to provide specific
HIV/AIDS-related services to communities.
A community will be defined for project purposes as one of the following:
*   A population living within the confines of a geographical area delimited by an
administrative boundary at the level of local government (woreda or equivalent) or
below (e.g., kebele);
*   A group of 10 or more people coming together to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS and
care for those infected and affected, and being accepted by a woreda or kebele
administration (or equivalent) as a bona fide group; traditional groups such as the
eider (voluntary funeral support group) and mahaber (diverse social activities) as
well as religious organizations will meet this criterion;



122
*   Any legally registered club, association, or cooperative that is assessed by the
kebele or woreda administration (or equivalent) as capable of carrying out
HIV/AIDS activities. This will especially include PLWHA associations.
A woreda is the equivalent of a district and on average has a population of around
100,000 persons (but could be substantially larger where it includes a major town within
its boundaries). A kebele is the equivalent of a borough and has a population of around
1,000 families (or about 5,000 persons). A kebele has an administrative unit composed
normally of five elected representatives, with a chairman and members responsible for
the following functions: treasury, secretarial, judicial, consultation with elders, and
security. A woreda has a council usually comprised of three elected representatives from
each kebele who in tum elect from among themselves a chairman and members to head
various portfolios in the WA. Each woreda has its own finance unit with an accountant
and treasurer selected by the Regional Finance Bureau. Regional variations exist in the
structure of the administrative units and these will be accommodated in selecting woredas
and their equivalents.
For project purposes, an NGO will be defined as a non-profit organization that is
not owned by government or managed by its appointees, and is engaged in activities that
benefit communities and help populations improve their economic and social well-being
using resources that are either provided by the organization, managed by the
organization, or both. The organization will be legally registered under the appropriate
Ethiopian law.
For project purposes, a private sector organization will be defined as a company
incorporated under Ethiopian law or any individual who is able to provide evidence of
successfully organizing HIV/AIDS activities at the community level, mobilizing
resources for this, and contributing his/her own resources both in terms of time and funds.
Block grants to woredas:
Block Grants (BG) will be provided to WAs:
* To finance small projects, referred to hereafter as community sub-projects, that have
been subject to formal preparation resulting in the WA receiving from communities a
brief document containing a technical, administrative, and financial plan and an
application for funds (the format for this will be provided in the PIM); this document
will also detail proposals for community contributions to financing the sub-project.
* By granting each kebele an initial sum of US$500 to carry out any activity that is
among the eligible activities in a positive list to be provided by the PCU. This small
grant will be funded out of the BG to be received by a woreda and sent to its kebeles
by the WA upon approval by the Woreda HIV/AIDS Advisory Committee (WAC).



123
Identification, selection, and approval of community sub-projects and small grants:
Community sub-projects will be approved on the basis of preparation documents
submitted to the WAC. The WA will employ an HIV/AIDS Facilitation Officer (HFO)
who will review the documents and submit a recommendation to a meeting of the WAC.
.The WAC will select the proposals that meet EAF criteria and can be financed within the
funds made available to the woreda. The WAC will invite RAC Secretariat staff and
zonal technical specialists to participate in the meeting to provide support. After the sub-
projects are approved, the WA and the benefiting community will make an agreement,
specifying the commitment of the government to grant funds, and of the community to
use the funds for the agreed purposes. The agreement will specify how sub-project
implementation will be monitored and what sanctions will be imposed if the funds were
misused. An example of a simple sub-project financing agreement and of the required
reporting formats will be provided in the PIM. The cost of the preparation of sub-
projects will be partly pre-financed from the BG to the WA, with no more than 10
percent of the BG used for this purpose. Any sub-project that will require EAF financing
in excess of US$2,500 equivalent will, after it had been accepted by the WAC as worthy
of support, be referred to the woreda council for final approval.
Small grants will be the kebele equivalent of the annual BG to the woreda. The
Kebele Administration Committee (KAC) will form an HIV/AIDS Committee on which
there shall be at least one youth (18-25 years), one woman, and one person who is
infected with HIV/AIDS or has someone in the family that is infected by the virus. The
sum of US$500 equivalent will be transferred to the kebele administration once the WAC
has received an application indicating how the funds are to be used in a manner
consistent with a list of activities eligible for EAF financing. The HFO will assist in
creating awareness about the availability of small grants and their use. The chairman of
the KA and a member of the KAC will acknowledge receipt of the funds by signing a
letter that indicates their approval of the funds and the purposes for which they will be
used. An example of such a letter will be provided in the PIM. Kebeles that could show
effective use of the funds provided will be eligible for subsequent small grants of US$500
equivalent using the same process of application-except that the appropriate use of the
previous US$500 will need to be verified by the chairman of the Municipal
Administration (in the case of urban woredas), by a development agent, or by a school
principal (in the case of a kebele). This will serve as a report on the use of the funds.
In both these financing arrangements, support to PLWHA will be given added
emphasis, especially at the time of creating awareness and training of beneficiary
representatives. The aim will be to increase their capacity, visibility, and activities to
better mitigate the epidemic, be custodians of human rights, and fight stigma, denial, and
discrimination. In addition to the above-mentioned activities, the woreda BGs will
provide funding to PLWHA associations for activities that combat the epidemic.
In the interests of transparency, the WAC will disseminate monthly the list of
applications received, the amounts applied for, and the applications approved/
applications not approved. A copy of this list will be sent to all KAC and also displayed
on woreda office notice boards.



124
Disbursement of grants for community sub-projects and small grants:
Prior to the BGs being transferred to the selected woredas, the following steps will
be followed:
*   A first workshop will have been held to introduce the concept of the project and the
actions needed before finds are approved, with participation as listed in the bullets
below;
*   Each woreda will need to have formed a WAC with mandatory representation from
non-governmental community organizations, women's organizations, youth
organizations, and PWLHA; this non-governmental representation should be more
than 50 percent of the members of the WAC;
*   Each woreda will have conducted a workshop for all kebele administrations in the
woreda; the curriculum for the workshop should include information on disease, its
prevention, its treatment, and types of activities that can support PLWHA. The
assistance of the zonal/woreda health officers and NGOs will be enlisted for this
purpose; a draft curriculum will be provided to all woreda representatives attending
their first workshop;
*   Each woreda will have appointed an HFO to work with communities and kebele
administrations to promote the activities of the Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project and assist these organizations in preparing proposals. The BFO will have
attended a workshop organized either by the EAF or the RAC Secretariat in which
project concepts and procedures will be explained; and
-   Woreda representatives will have attended a second workshop in which the PIM
had been explained to them and the mode of funds transfer to each woreda agreed at
that workshop.
The BGs to the woredas will then be transferred to the selected WAs through an
account in the nearest bank branch or, if impractical, through an account with a registered
micro-finance institution (MFI), a post-office, or, if impractical, to a separate account in
the name of the woreda concerned in the nearest branch of the Regional Finance Bureau.
The funds for each sub-project will be paid by the WA into a community account in a
bank or MFI upon approval of a sub-project and signing of a financing agreement. The
small grants will be transferred to kebele administrations from the WA after
representatives of the kebele administrations and KAC had attended a workshop
organized by the WAC to explain the objectives of the project and the procedures to be
followed. Woredas that had received BGs for sub-projects and small grants will submit
to the EAM a quarterly progress report on the sub-projects showing both financial and
physical progress. All woredas receiving BGs will be required to submit to the EAF
simple accounting statements on sources and uses of funds on a quarterly basis. All
transfers out of the account for a woreda BG will be co-signed by one member of the
WAC and one other person in the WA who could be the chairman/secretary of the
Woreda council or the Woreda accountant. Random financial and technical audits of



125
woreda, kebele, and BC accounts and activities will be undertaken by RAC Secretariat
staff/consultants. Quarterly reports will be submitted to EAF by the RAC Secretariat,
listing out the accounts and activities audited and findings of the audits. Each
participating woreda will be audited at least once a year.
Procurement for sub-projects and small grants:
The BCs could start procurement activities once they had received information
from the WAC or kebele administration that their application for financing had been
approved. In practice, some preliminary actions, such as preparing invitations to bid,
identifying contractors or suppliers, and providing the community's own contribution,
could begin even earlier. The method of procurement will largely depend on the budget
value of the contract that is contemplated. The Bank's Africa Region 's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement, dated March 1998, will be used as a
reference, but cognizance of local practices and the capacity of the community to manage
the process will be an important consideration. As sub-project funding is within the
accepted upper limit for local shopping, at least three qualified local bidders should be
invited to make offers for each contract. The details of the process and a model contract
will be provided in the PIM. This should not be taken as the only method to be used.
Direct contracting should also be acceptable when competition is not available or not
practical, and this will apply especially to the small grants of US$500. If consultants
need to be employed, single-source selection will be permitted, but other procedures
such as those based on qualifications could also be used. These procedures will be
further elaborated in the PIM. The RAC Secretariat will, on behalf of EAF, engage audit
firms who will conduct random checks to ascertain whether the prices paid and the
quality of work performed are within acceptable limits.
Financing of administrative costs and overheads of the WAs:
Upon receiving the BG, the WA will set aside a sum equivalent to 5 percent to
meet the cost of the operations of the WAC, the kebele workshops, and other
administrative expenses related to the project. These will be separately accounted for by
the woreda finance unit. Another 5 percent of the BG will be put in a separate account to
help pre-finance sub-project preparation by NGOs and local private consultants. The
WA could advance up to 50 percent of the estimated sub-project preparation costs to the
NGO/private consultants, with the balance being paid upon approval of the application by
WAC. The cost of sub-project preparation will be included in the application for the sub-
project grant but will not exceed 10 percent of the total sub-project cost.
Phasing/sequencing of the grants program:
Each participating woreda will receive a yearly amount of US$500 equivalent per
kebele, or equivalent administrative unit, which will be disbursed as a small grant directly
by EAF to the WA account. Thus, for a typical woreda the equivalent of US$10,000 per
year will be sent for small grants. The subsequent year's allocation of small grants could
be sent to the woreda upon proof of disbursement of the previous year's small grants and
their proper use. In addition to small grant funds, the woreda will receive another



126
US$500 equivalent per kebele for financing community sub-projects. The total sum
provided for community sub-projects could be allocated to activities that go beyond
kebele boundaries and support woreda-wide activities. An additional US$500 equivalent
per kebele will be sent to the participating woredas for financing community sub-projects
once a woreda had produced evidence of satisfactory disbursement to communities of the
first tranche of US$500 per kebele. This process will continue over the three years with
each subsequent tranche dependent on satisfactory disbursement of the previous tranche.
Initially, satisfactory disbursement will mean that funds approved by the WAC were
equivalent to 85 percent of the tranche, and funds disbursed were 70 percent of the
tranche.
In the first year, 55 woredas will be selected to enter the project. The entry of these
first woredas will be in two phases. In the first phase, 25 pilot woredas will receive BGs
immediately upon satisfying the conditions discussed earlier. Upon satisfactory
resolution of start-up and facilitation hitches in these 25 woredas (expected not to exceed
six months from the time the BGs are provided), the remaining 30 woredas will be given
BGs, upon satisfying the conditions set out above. After the first year of implementation,
all woredas in the country will be eligible for BGs subject to satisfying the same
disbursement conditions. It is expected that the project will reach at least 165 (30
percent) of woredas in the country during the three years of operation.
EAF financing of NGOs/private organizations (POs):
Matching funds will be provided only for a positive list of eligible HIV/AIDS
activities and will cover prevention, care, support, treatment, and behavior change-related
activities. The main activities will include IEC, awareness and prevention campaigns,
preparation and diffusion of didactic material in local languages (radio, video, pamphlets,
newsletters), VCT, support to orphans, AIDS community-based care initiatives, income-
generating activities, support to HIV/AIDS clubs, financial assistance to AIDS patients
and orphans, provision of drugs for opportunistic infections, sensitization campaigns
against stigrna and discrimination, promotion of behavior changes, psychosocial support,
targeted life-skills training to vulnerable groups, school fees, and food allowances. The
selected programs could be at national, regional, or local levels. Cost-sharing will be in
cash, and the basis for assessing the appropriate level of contribution by an NGO/PO
could be set out in the PIM. A minimum of a 10 percent contribution from local NGOs
and 20 percent from the private sector will be used as an initial guide, though each
application will be considered on its own merits. International NGOs will generally be
expected to contribute more than local NGOs.
Many NGOs are involved in HIV/AIDS-related activities but most of them work in
the area of prevention. A few of them work in the area of care and assisting PLWHA.
An assessment of this latter group of NGOs shows that their main weaknesses are lack of
funds and logistical and technical support. In terns of prevention, there is one NGO
(Public Service International) that is already doing social marketing of condoms on a
national basis and could be tapped to enlarge the scale of such activities. Another NGO,
the Family Guidance Association, is active nationally in the area of reproductive health
but has extended its activities to HIV/AIDS prevention and youth counseling. There are



127
NGOs that operate at a regional level, an example of which is ACORD, which focuses its
activities on the training of trainers and commercial sex workers.
A National Review Board for EAF will select NGOs/POs for national and inter-
regional activities. Regional Review Boards of the RAC will perform a similar function
at the regional or sub-regional levels. A financing agreement will be signed with an
NGO/PO by the EAF, or the RAC Secretariat as the case might be. All procurement
could be in accordance with the procedures of the contracted organization or as required
by the PCU to enhance transparency. These procedures will be clearly spelled out in the
financing agreement and will require the NGO/PO to retain relevant documents
pertaining to the procurement process to enable review by Bank staff, and by project
procurement and financial auditors. Funds approved for each proposal will be on a case-
by-case basis taking into account capacities of participating institutions to provide their
own financial resources. For national-level activities a limit of US$500,000 per proposal
will initially be observed. For regional-level activities the limit will initially be
US$200,000 per proposal. These limits will be reviewed with experience. They will not
apply to proposals that were specifically intended to procure and distribute inputs such as
condoms and drugs for opportunistic infections. Financing for these will be determined
on the basis of coverage. Payments of approved funds will be made direct to beneficiary
NGOs/POs upon approval by the appropriate review board.
To facilitate the entry of NGOs into the project apex, NGOs in Ethiopia will be
invited to encourage their members to participate in a first workshop that will introduce
them to the project and the type of activities that it will fund, as well as procedures for
preparing and submitting applications. They will then be invited to a second workshop
where detailed procedures will be explained so they could then submit applications for
support. Members of the National and Regional Review Boards will also participate in
the workshop to obtain a better understanding of how NGOs operate and the demand for
project support.
NGOs providing support to PLWHA will be especially targeted for project
assistance.
PCU staff will seek out POs that will like to participate in the project. Among the
possible areas of cooperation/support will be piggy-backing on advertisements for
products, sponsorship of sports programs, and joint-assistance to youth clubs. PCU staff
will seek innovative ways of tapping private sector resources for joint programs.
Participating NGOs/POs will be required to provide quarterly progress reports
giving financial and physical progress to the EAF and with copies to the RAC Secretariat
where appropriate. All proposals with approved amounts in excess of US$10,000 will
require a separate annual audit report from the external auditors of the organization.



128
ETHIOPIA MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT
Key Implementation Steps in Project Year 1
Deliverable/Action                  Person          Date       Remarks
Responsible
CGovt. of Ethiopia (GOE) approves   Min. Finance    Aug 11/00
negotiated documents
2   GOE to deposit initial $ 300,000     Min. of Finance  Aug 15/00  Retroactive
equivalent in a Project Account in the    and MEDAC           financing up to six
NS to be managed by the PCU to pre-                            months prior to
finance expenditures until IDA Credit                         loan signing
funds become available.                                        equivalent to $ 1.0
million providedfor
in Credit
agreement. Bank
procurement
procedures to be
complied with.
2   GOE advertises positions of          Head NAC       Aug 20/00  To use draft TORs
Procurement Specialist, Sr. Procurement  Secretariat           agreed at
Specialist in local newspapers and other  (HNACS)              negotiations
media
3   GOE submits to Bank 2 names each and  HNACS         Aug 2 1/00  The normal process
CV of proposed candidates for Project                          of advertisement
Coordinator (PC) and Assistant PC.                             and selection is too
long for the short
implementation
period.
4   Bank provides to GOE its comments on  Bank Ethiopia   Aug 24/00
candidates proposed for PC and      Team Leader
Assistant PC                        (ETL)
5   GOE submits draft of Interim Program    HNACS       Aug 31/00  Bank reviews draft
Implementation procedures (IPIP) to                            and provides
Bank (Bank has worked with the GOE                             comments by Sept
Task Force during Appraisal to produce                         21/00
a working draft for development by the
GOE)
6   GOE and Bank agree on selection      HNACS          Aug 3 1/00
criteria for the first 55woredas to receive
_grants
7   GOE initiates work on drafting positive   HNACS     Aug 3 1/00  TORs and name of
list of activities to be sponsored by                          consultant to be
NGOs & Woreda Administrations for                              submitted to Bank
Project financing by appointing a                              for no objection by
consultant or one of its staff. This will                      Aug 31/00 and Bank
be an important input for project                              to provide



129
facilitation activities and should be of                       comments and no
sufficient detail to identify items that are                   objection within one
eligible for financing.                                        week
8   GOE proposes sole source appointment  HNACS/PC      August    Bank no objection
(including TORs) of Consultants to                  31/00      by Sept 8/00
prepare Project Implementation Manual
(PM.
9   GOE appoints PC and Assistant PC     HNACS          Sept 1/00
10  GOE submits recommendation on       HNACS           Sept 7/00   Bankprovides no
selection of Procurement Consultant, Sr.                       objection or
Procurement Consultant, and Finance                            comments by Sept
Manager                                                        13
11  PC and Assistant PC report for duty  PC             Sept 11/00
12  Bank board approves Credit          Bank APL        Sept 14/00
Team Leader
13  GOE submits list of first 55 woredas to   Head NS/PC  Sept 14/00
be provided block grants
14  GOE submits draft RFP for M&E       PC              Sept 14/00 Bank gives no
Consultant.(Working draft of TORs                              objection by Sep
prepared by Bank by Sept 7/00)                                 29/00
15  GOE submits to Bank positive list of    Head NACS/PC  Sept 15/00 Bank provides
activities to be sponsored by NGOs and                         comments by Sept
Woreda administrations.                                        22/00
16  General Procurement Notice submitted   Bank ETL     Sept 24/00 Bank ETL reviews
for publication in UN Development                              draft with PCprior
Business                                                       to submission to DB
17  Credit Agreement signed             Bank ETL        Oct 12/00
18  PCU sends out RFP for M&E           PC              Oct 14/00
consultants
19  Project Launch Workshop (1): Project   Head NACS,   Oct 14/00  Participants: Major
Scope; Interim Implementation       PC, Bank ETL               Stakeholders: Line
Procedures, Procurement Schedules and                          Ministries, Regional
Work Plan preparation guidance.                                Aids Secretariat &
Bureaus
20  NGOs/Woreda Administration           Head NACS,   Oct 16/00  NGOs advised to
Workshop (1): Project Scope and     PC, Bank ETL   to 20/00 at prepare proposals
Interim Implementation Procedures.                  Two        for consideration by
Positive list of activities eligible for            locations?  PCU. Woredas to
financing agreed to and provisional                            start facilitation at
check list for "appraisal" criteria for                        Kebele and
proposals discussed and agreed upon.                           community level
21  GOE submits draft RFP for study to   Head NACS,   Oct 25/00  Bank provides no
make an inventory of existing       PC                         objection by Nov
HIV/AIDS activities and review                                 3/00
institutional arrangements for the Multi-
Sectoral Programn
22  PCU submits draft bidding documents   PCU Proc.      Oct 18/00  Bank provides no



130
for goods for Bank no objection     Consultant                 objection by Nov
(PCPC)                    1/00
23  Woreda Administrations conduct       Woreda         Oct 27-    Each Kebele to be
workshop for Kebele Representatives.   Administration   31/00  represented by head
of Kebele Admin., 1
youth and 1 woman
24  PCU completes procurement schedules   PCPC          Oct 30/00
for all main implementing agencies
25  PCU initiates assessment of activities    PC/APC    Oct 30/00
and funding in the first Program year for
Components 1 & 2.
26  GOE confirms procedures for funding    Min. of Finance  Nov 1/00
payment of duties and taxes for Program
imports
27  PCU advertises Bid for Goods for First   PCPC       Nov 6/00
Year of Project
28  Special Accounts A and B to be opened   PC/APC      Nov 15/00
in NBE or acceptable commercial bank
29  Draft PIM submitted to Bank          PC             Nov 15/00  Bank comments by
Nov 30/00
30  Capacity building funds under       Head NACS       Nov 30/00
Component 1 for FY 2000/1 allocated
by NAC_
31  Government program intensification   Head NACS      Nov 30/00
funds under Component 2 for FY 2000/1
allocated by NAC
32  Final version of PM submitted to Bank   PC          Dec 7/00
33  GOE provides legal opinion and meets   MOF          Dec 1/00
effectiveness conditions
34  PCU receives M&E consultancy         PC             Dec 4/00
proposals on Nov 15/00 and submits
award recommendation to Bank
35  Bank gives no objection to M&E                      Dec 12/00
consultancy appointment
36  PCU sends M&E consultancy            PC             Dec 15/00
appointment letter to commence work on
Jan 15/01
37  Bank declares Credit effective      Bank ETL        Dec 15/00
38  PCU submits first withdrawal         PC/Bank ETL    Dec 15/00  Bank HQ receives
application (WA) to Bank for Special                           WA on Dec 22/00
Accounts (SA) initial deposit together                         and approves on
with letter from MOF on authorized                             Dec 29/00
signatories for withdrawals from the
Credit.
39  (a) PCU submits TORs and proposal on  PC            Dec 15/00  Bank provides
appointees for National Review Board                           comments within
___  (NRB) for NGO/Private Sector                                   one week



131
applications for Grants.
(b) PCU sends TORs for Regional
Review Boards to Regional Secretariats  PC
and requests appointments to be
completed by Jan 15/00
40  Training of Woreda Grants facilitators   PC/RS/Bank  Dec 22-
ETL            25/00
41  GOE submit to the Bank draft report on   Head       Jan 10/00  Bankprovides
inventory of HIV/AIDS activities and    NACS/PC               comments by Jan
recommendations on institutional                              25/01
_ arrangements for the Program
42  Draft Manual on flow of funds and   PC Finance      Jan 30/01  Bank comments
reporting mechanism submitted to Bank  Manager                provided by Feb
(PCFM)                    12/00
43  Draft Manual on structure, management  PCFM         Jan 30/01   Bank comments
and reporting mechanisms on                                   provided by Feb
Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF)                                 12/00
submitted to Bank
44  Draft Outline of Manual on Monitoring   PCU M&E     Jan 30/01   Bank comments
and Evaluation submitted to Bank    Consultant                provided by Feb
(PCME)                    8/00
45  GOE submit to the NAC final report on  Head NACS    Feb 7/00
inventory of HIV/AIDS activities and
recommendations on institutional
arrangements for the Program complete
with an action plan to implement
recommendations.                   __
46  Project Launch Workshop (2) to explain  PC/Bank ETL    Feb     Regional H/A
PIM to major stakeholders.          PCU Project    12/01-     Councils to be
Facilitation   13/01      formed by then to
Staff (PCPF)              permit flow of
funds to Regional
_______________________________  _____________ _____ Bureaus and NGOs
47  NGOs/Woreda Administration          PC/Bank ETL    Feb 14 -17 NRB members to
Workshop (2): to explain PIM and agree  /PCPF      /01        attend
on mode of funds transfer to first 20
Woredas which satisfy criteria set during
the first workshop.
48  Workshop on M&E Work Program and   PCME             Feb 15/01  Participants: Line
Responsibilities and Draft Outline of                         Mins.; Regional
Manual                                                        Secretariats, Central
and Regional
Statistical Bodies
49  Funds transferred to 25 first phase  Directly by    Feb 21/01
Woredas                             PCU
50  Funds transferred to Mins. and Regional PCU Financial  Feb 2 1/01
Secretariat Project Accounts        Manager



132
(PCFM)
51  Request for Proposals for Project    PCFM             Feb 26/01  Evaluation to be
Auditors                                                        submitted to Bank
two weeks after
closing date for
submissions and
appointment made
within one week of
Bank no objection
52  Submission of Draft Manual on M&E to  PCME            Feb 28/01  Final version of
Bank and all participating agencies for                         M&E Manual to be
comment                                                         issued by March
30/01
53  FY 02 (July-June) Annual Work Plans   PCPF            Apr 15/01  To be submitted by
requested from Line Mins. and                                   May 15/00
Regional Secretariats (inc. Regional
___ _Bureaus)
54  Consolidated Annual Work Plans       PCME/PCPF    June           Line Mins., etc
presented to Advisory Board for                      15/01      informed of work
endorsement with a copy to World Bank                           plan approvals
55  Remaining 35 woredas sent block grants  PCFM          By Sept    Upon satisfactory
on satisfying criteria established earlier           1/01       de-snagging of
initial
implementation
hitches.
56  Woreda, NGO/Private Sector Grants    EAFM             Sept 15/01
Program for FY 02 presented to
Advisory Board for endorsement with a
I_I copy to World Bank
World Bank User
\\StreetTalk\PrivateOl@ETFilesOIAFRICA\WBI5820\HIV-AIDS\Attachment D4 KEY STEPS.doc
07/22/00 3:13 PM



133
Annex 5. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
The project will support the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Unit in the NAC Secretariat.
Responding effectively to HIV/AIDS requires sustained monitoring and evaluation
of a broad range of measures. Each HIV epidemic behaves differently and often
unpredictably, especially once it reaches a mature phase as it has in Ethiopia. A proper
M&E system must therefore include much more than just general serosurveillance.
It is especially important to identify and track leading behavioral and
epidemiological indicators, such as sexual behavior and STI prevalence among persons
aged 15-24 and among those whose behavior puts them at risk. A complete M&E
program for HIV/AlDS should compile data of four types: i) on knowledge, attitudes,
and sexual behavior; ii) on project inputs and outputs; iii) on coverage and quality of key
services; and iv) on health status. Each country needs to choose its own particular
measures according to the state of the epidemic and the main behavioral factors driving
its spread. The Ethiopia project will identify and measure at least one indicator within
each of the following categories: level of project effort; condom accessibility and
quality; stigma and discrimination; knowledge of HIV transmission and prevention;
counseling, testing, and referral; PTCT (where such services are offered); sexual behavior
in the general population; sexual behavior of young people; blood safety; STI/TB
prevention and care (e.g., appropriate diagnoses, STI/TB drug supplies); care and support
for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; and health and social impact (including
rates of STIs, especially among young people, and numbers of orphans).
Monitoring and evaluation of the HIV/AIDS project will differ from other M&E
systems in that:
*   Within the initial three-year project period, information on longer-term impact and
outcomes will be less telling than information on inputs, process, and outputs.
*   However, early indicators of project effectiveness and beneficiary receptivity/
response will be essential for all project activities so they can be quickly adjusted.
*   With the emphasis on scaling up programs that are multi-sectoral in nature and that
use a variety of implementation channels, monitoring and evaluation will have to
be extensive and will require more resources than a single-sector project.
*   The commitment to beneficiary and stakeholder involvement in decision-making
and in implementation will be enhanced if the M&E system can provide real-time,
relevant information both to the PCU and to relevant decentralized decision-
makers.
Ethiopia currently conducts no systematic monitoring of HIV/AIDS or the impact
of efforts to address it. Given the importance of such information, the project will invest
substantially in establishing a robust M&E system. The NAC Secretariat will be able to
call on technical expertise from IPAA partners in developing the system. WHO and
UNAIDS have just issued Guidelinesfor Second Generation HIV Surveillance (May



134
2000), which provide an excellent overview of how to tailor monitoring and evaluation
for maximum benefit in individual country cases. UNAIDS can also provide substantial
technical assistance to the NAC Secretariat in this area. As a principle, the M&E Unit
will rely on formal links with external expertise for generation of information and
analysis, including such bodies as the Central Statistical Authority, regional statistical
offices, universities, and private institutions.
With respect to implementation, the M&E Unit will be charged with establishing
performance indicators for each project component, clearly distinguishing among: a)
project outputs; b) progress toward outcomes; and c) early indications of trends toward
longer-term impact. The Unit will compile and consolidate, on a quarterly basis,
monitoring information including data related to expenditures and disbursements.
Implementation progress reports will be submitted to the NAC and to IDA every six
months. In addition, an independent project performance evaluation will be conducted at
the end of each year, and will focus on: a) an assessment of the short-term impact of
project activities on the epidemic, with particular focus on vulnerable groups; and b) an
operational audit of the project, including activity completion, the impact of project
activities, and progress toward sustaining them. The evaluation will highlight lessons
learned, and these will be used inter alia to make adjustments to the PIM.
Since the objective of many project activities will be to change the behavior of a
large number of disparate groups, a process of beneficiary and stakeholder feedback and
social impact monitoring will be essential. Social impact monitoring will be used to
identify key social and cultural development/participation issues, including impediments
to equitable access to project activities by intended beneficiary groups, especially those
currently disempowered in some way, and to recommend strategies for strengthening
community institutional capacity. It will be used to design a systematic participation
framework to ensure that the needs of the poor and vulnerable are catered to, and that
their level of participation in the project is appropriately captured in the project's
operational procedures.



135
Annex 6. Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement:
1. General: It is not possible at this stage to determine the exact mix of goods and
services to be procured under the overall project. This is due to the following
reasons: a) adaptable feature of an APL; b) the mission has received only summary
aggregate data for the different regional and sub-regional Units; and c) 40 percent of
the project funds is allocated to local initiatives under community-based sub-projects.
The procurement plan for the first year will be prepared based on the initial needs of
the NAC and NAC Secretariat and the work programs submitted by the concerned
ministries. Costs for the subsequent years are only indicative at the time of project
preparation. The exact mix of procurement will be determined on an annual basis
during annual joint reviews between the NAC Secretariat, IDA, and other donors,
where a draft procurement plan for the following financial year will be presented and
agreed upon.
2. IDA will finance goods, civil works, consultancy, training, and other local activities
necessary to implement the project under EAF. Procurement for all IDA-financed
activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, Section
3.15, Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms,
organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
3. Procurement Capacity: A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was
undertaken in 1998. National procedures for procurement of works, goods, and
services were found to be wanting in several areas; the Government responded by
making some changes in its financial directives in this regard but further revisions are
needed to make the procedures acceptable. The Bank provided an IDF grant to help
in the production of a procurement manual and carry out of training of trainers in
1999. Follow-up Bank assistance is being considered to help in the preparation of a
procurement code.
4. An assessment of procurement capacity of the NAC Secretariat indicates relatively
high risks. In consideration of the fact that the PCU is yet to be established, there is
no capacity and experience in procurement-related activities. Unless outside support
(i.e., hiring of a senior procurement specialist and procurement specialist) is provided
to PCU, it is likely that PCU capacity will be inadequate to handle the procurement
workload under the project. Discussions with the Government and the Bank's FY
1999 Country Portfolio Performance Review have confirmned that the procurement
management capacity is severely constrained. Accordingly, it has been agreed that
long-term procurement consultants should be engaged by the PCU as early as
possible. These consultants will work with all regional and sub-regional Units to
prepare annual procurement plans, bidding documents, and bid evaluation reports.



136
5. Institutional Arrangements: The overall coordination of project implementation
will be done by the PCU of the NAC Secretariat, with each line ministry and
NGO/CBO responsible for implementation of their relevant work programs. All
major procurement activities for Components 1, 2, and 4 will be handled and
coordinated centrally by PCU with participation of the relevant line ministries with
respect to preparation of technical specifications and Terns of Reference. Ownership
of the signed contracts will be with respective line ministries including contract
management. It is not expected that PCU will be involved in all work program-
related procurement activities of the line ministries. Items such as EEC materials,
workshops, training, and supplies will be handled by the line ministries using the
specified procurement methods identified for the project. With respect to Component
3, the procurement activities will be based on Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement Procedures for Community-Based Investments.
6. The central procurement activities under the project will be handled by hiring a team
of two individuals as senior procurement specialist and procurement specialist. One
of them should preferably be fully acquainted with procurement of drugs and
pharmaceuticals. Terms of Reference are prepared for both positions and are attached
to this document. Regional and national advertisements for these positions will be
carried out as early as possible and prior to the Bank's Board date. These individuals
will be hired before Credit effectiveness, will prepare the detailed first year
procurement plan, and will start the procurement process for the more pressing
procurement activities, including acquisition of urgent drugs for treatment/diagnosis
of the disease, recruitment of a Finance Manager and a Financial Controller,
preparation of the simplified procurement procedures manual for the community-
based programs, hiring of a firm for the initial information campaign program, and
other required items for institutional capacity strengthening. In order to build
capacity at the local level, the procurement team will also provide procurement
training workshops at national and regional levels. The Bank's Country Office will
monitor the performance of the procurement team and will also provide the necessary
support where required. During the first 12 months of project operations, the detailed
procurement plans for the following years will be developed and submitted to IDA
for review and approval.
7. Considering the emergency needs, and in order to expedite the procurement and
subsequent disbursement process, it is recommended that partial delegation of the
procurement fiduciary responsibilities be assigned to the Country Office. This action
should be taken by the Country Director for RPA/OPRC approval.



137
8. Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be
assessed on an annual basis in the form of procurement/physical audits by an external
agency. In addition to the formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be
conducted periodically. For the first year of operations it is recommended that the
procurement arrangements be reviewed after six months of operations to fine-tune the
activities and ensure that the proposed arrangement is sufficiently covering the needs
of the project. This review should be undertaken by a procurement specialist from
the Bank.
Procurement methods:
9. Procurement of goods and works for all IDA-financed components will be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999). Consulting services by firms, organizations, or individuals
financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
10. Given the urgency of the project, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first
year of operations will be placed in the local newspapers as well as in the United
Nations Development Business (UNDB) web site without the need for hard-copy
publication. The requirement for printed publication of GPN has been waived by the
RPA office. The detailed GPN for the subsequent years will be prepared for the
project and published in UNDB. GPNs will describe all outstanding ICB for goods
contracts as well as consulting assignments. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) and
Expressions of Interest (EOI) will be prepared for the individual procurement actions
where necessary. The Borrower will prepare a procurement plan for the first year of
project operations. The plan will include relevant information on goods, works, and
consulting services under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the
procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every quarter and
reviewed by IDA during each supervision mission.
Civil works:
11. No large civil works are scheduled for the project. The design does provide for
flexibility for NGOs/CBOs (Component 3) to undertake small works within the
context of their work programs, though the budgets for the grants must be approved
prior to disbursements and the number of such works will be quite limited, as
described below.
12. Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant



138
drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the
lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
13. Contracts for small works estimated to cost more than US$20,000 equivalent per
contract are ineligible for financing under the project.
Goods:
14. The total cost of goods is estimated at US$17.4 million for the project as detailed
below. These exclude any goods that might be procured in small quantities through
work programs under Component 3 of the project.
(a) Emergency requirements:
15. Given the urgency of the project, and to facilitate speedy procurement of items
required urgently for institutional strengthening, specific contracts will be handled in
the following manner:
To be procured centrally by PCU:
-  Drugs, chemicals, kits, and condoms: US$1.7 million, to be sourced from United
Nations Agencies;
- Lab Equipment: US$300,000, to be sourced through international shopping
procedures;
-  Computers and accessories, office and power equipment: US$150,000, to be sourced
from the United Nations Agency (LAPSO);
-  Vehicles: US$200,000, to be sourced from IAPSO andlor national shopping
procedures (preferably from "bonded warehouses" on a competitive basis);
*  Furniture for PCU and Regional Coordinating Offices: US$200,000, to be sourced
from local manufacturers/suppliers by national shopping procedures.
16. All shopping procedures will follow the IDA Procurement Guidelines (Para. 3.5 and
3.6) and June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the Bank,
and procurement from the United Nations Agencies (i.e., UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO,
IAPSO) will follow para. 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. All contracts under the
above-stated "Emergency Requirements" must be concluded within 12 months of the
Credit effectiveness date. The list of these items and their estimated value should be
agreed upon with IDA as per the approved Procurement Plan. The procurement and
timely distribution of the goods will be the responsibility of PCU.
(b)   Other goods:
17. Goods that are estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract will
be subject to Prior Review and will be procured through ICB procedures.
Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000



139
equivalent or more. In cases of consolidated procurement of goods by PCU (both
national and international), where the end users are spread in different geographical
locations, PCU may consider the feasibility and possibility of devising a system
acceptable to IDA whereby through structured bidding documents and contract
monitoring procedures the delivery of goods will be based on decentralized ordering
from the end users and based on their specific needs. There are high risks involved
with respect to actual monitoring and implementation of such a process and careful
consideration should be given to all details before such system is placed.
18. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$4.3 million equivalent, will be procured through NCB.
Office furniture and production of IEC materials for which capacity exists in the
country and in the case of the latter requires proximity to the client for editing and
proofreading may be procured through NCB. Another factor that has to be taken into
account is multiple languages in which the materials have to be produced. In any
case, there will be no restriction on the participation of foreign suppliers in NCB.
The draft standard bidding document for NCB will be submitted by PCU to IDA for
prior review. The approved bidding document will form the basis of all NCB
procurements under this project.
19. Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured through International and local
Shopping procedures, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, and/or through the
United Nations Agencies (IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO). Any direct contracting
for goods valued at below US$5,000 subject to an aggregate value of less than US$
20,000 per annum, per regional and sub-regional Implementing Unit, should be
agreed upon as part of the annual reviews of their respective work programs (these
being largely for the purpose of operations, maintenance, office, and stationery
expenses). The procedures followed, and total aggregate amount for all shopping
method under the project, will be reviewed after six months of project operations;
depending on performance, and the results of the review, the total aggregate amount
may be adjusted downward where necessary. Standard request forms and
establishment of guidelines for conduct of the shopping method (as per the June 9,
2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping") should be prepared and included in the
PIM). These aggregate limits do not include contracts under Component 3.
20. Specialist equipment spare parts (i.e., medical equipment related to HIV/AIDS, power
generators for cold-storage facilities) in packages costing less than US$10,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$100,000 may be procured directly from the original
manufacturers or suppliers.
21. Contracting the procurement and distribution of drugs and other inputs to United
Nations agencies with prior approval of IDA may also be undertaken in instances
where these organizations are already procuring these inputs for supply and
distribution in Ethiopia or in other countries.



140
Storage and distribution:
22. Current storage facilities at the federal, regional, and hospital/clinic levels appear to
be adequate and distribution is not a major problem except for cold-chain items where
more use of private sector facilities could prove beneficial. The usual process is for
the drugs or equipment to be acquired by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and received
at its central stores in Addis Ababa. The goods are then sent to regional stores and
then on to zonal stores where distribution to hospitals and health centers takes place.
23. One issue requiring attention is the existing arrangements for storage of drugs in the
MOH. The current manual inventory controls do not provide for easy identification
of the expiry dates of the drugs. Additionally, under a manual system, stock levels,
forecasting of demands, issues, and receipts can not be easily identified. This is a
high-risk situation where expired drugs could be distributed. Other donor funding
should be sought for automation of MOH inventory management. USAID has been
supporting such drug logistics management systems in other African countries. As
such, USAID should be approached for funding of this purchase. Additional funding
from other international donors should be sought for fast implementation of this
system.
24. The other issue relates to the MOH cold-storage facilities. Currently, there is only
one working cold-storage facility with two rooms in Addis Ababa. This store is used
for all vaccines and other supplies; however, the frequent power interruptions and
lack of a back-up generator for the storage facility has occasionally resulted in
damage of medical supplies. The other cold store that was available at the Addis
Ababa Airport has been out of order for more than two years. There is another cold
store in Dessie district; however, there is no exact information on its condition, and it
is about 400 kilometers away from the airport. The MOH has indicated that it has a
plan to place deep freezers at the airport to alleviate the problem. Immediate
measures should be taken to either purchase a new generator or fix the existing one.
Project funds could be used for the related procurement. Furthermore, the capacity of
the cold storage facility should be assessed with respect to the additional drug
purchases under the donor-funded projects, and if necessary funds should be secured
for expansion of the facility.
25. To enhance the capacity for storage and distribution of project drugs and condoms,
PCU with support from the MOH should consider the possibility of using private
companies to support drug storage facilities (including cold storage) and the
distribution network throughout the country. Funding for such activities should be
sought from the international donor community.
Grants to community-based sub-projects:
26. The project will support a community-based pre-payment scheme for EAF-related
activities. The total cost for this activity (Component 3) is US$28.1 million
equivalent. The HIV/AIDS fund will finance small-scale, community-based
HIV/AIDS-related activities, including minor repairs or works, purchase of drugs and



141
supplies in small quantities (in emergency cases), care and maintenance for AIDS
patients and orphans, AIDS-prevention promotion, and other interventions at the
community level.
27. Work programns under Component 3 will depend on applications received from
communities, NGOs, and private organizations against a positive list of activities. It
is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, small works, and services to be
procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Funding for these
activities will be in the form of grants. Therefore, the types of activities to be
financed under these activities and their procurement details will depend on the needs
identified by communities.
28. In accordance with the established guidelines (as part of the PIM), large works
contracts and vehicles are ineligible for financing under the BGs to woredas under
Component 3. The Africa Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement
for Community-Based Investments will be used in the design of procurement under
this aspect of the project. The NAC Secretariat through PCU will be responsible for
ensuring compliance with these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-
projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent consultants
appointed by PCU.
Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures for community-based
programs, including the positive list of items qualifying under this component, will be
developed and included in the PIM for approval by IDA. The PIM will also include
procedures for IDA prior review thresholds for NGOs, private sector, and other
community initiatives.
Consultancy services:
29. The total cost of consultant services is estimated at US$8.2 million equivalent for the
entire project, excluding any services to be procured under Component 3, as detailed
in the above. Except as detailed below, consulting services will be selected through
competition among qualified short-listed consultants (selected through advertisement
of EOIs) based on Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) whereby the quality of
the technical proposals is given highest score and evaluation of the technical
proposals is carried out before opening the financial proposals (Section II, para. 2.1-
2.28 of the Consultant Guidelines).
30. The consultancy services required will be mostly in the areas of AIDS research, AIDS
education, trainers, community development, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, information dissemination, auditing, and accounting. The exact mix
(types of consultancy, budgets, procurement methods) will be discussed and agreed
annually during joint reviews.
31. Consultants for financial audits and other repetitive services estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$250,000



142
equivalent, will be selected through Least Cost Selection method (para. 3.1 and 3.6 of
the Consultant Guidelines).
32. Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual
Consultants method (Section V, para. 5.1-5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines).
Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of job description
requirements against the qualifications of those expressing interest in the assignment
or those approached directly. For both firm and individual contracts, single-source
selection may be used only on an exceptional basis, with prior agreement by IDA, in
accordance with the provision of para. 3.8-3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. All
consultancy services valued at below US$5,000 up to an aggregate value of
US$75,000 equivalent may be sole-sourced subject to these being included in the
annual approved work programs. All Terms of Reference for consultancy services
are subject to prior agreements with IDA. To the extent possible, standard Terms of
Reference will be prepared for the small consultancy contracts, and they will be
submitted to IDA for no objection.
33. Service contracts for the research studies will be subject to IDA prior review and will
be awarded based on a two-stage approval process. Initial review of the research
proposals will be carried out by the NAC Secretariat, PCU. The award
recommendations from PCU should receive the approval of the Ethiopia Science and
Technology Commission (ESTC) before IDA no objection can be issued.
Universities, chartered and private academic and research institutions, and individuals
affiliated with such institutions may qualify to receive funds under this component.
34. To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national
consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 or equivalent may
be comprised entirely of national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of
qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from
consideration. The Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by the Bank
will be used for requesting proposals, and for selection and appointment of
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments-simple
missions of standard nature (i.e., those not exceeding six months) carried out by
individual consultants or firms. The Government was briefed during negotiations
about the special features of the new guidelines and the RFP, in particular with regard
to advertisement, public bid opening, and evaluation criteria.
Training, workshops, and study tours:
35. The total cost for this component (Capacity Building for Government Agencies and
Civil Society, Component 1) is estimated at US$7 million for the project. Training,
workshops, and study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved annual
programs that will identify the general framework of training activities for the year,
including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of trainees, and



143
cost estimates. The training institutions for all workshops/training with costs
exceeding US$5,000 should be identified within the annual program; where the
training cost exceeds US$20,000, the selection of the training institution should be
based on a competitive process preferably using the quality-based method of
selection. Any and all "out of country" training is subject to prior review by IDA,
and such training is ineligible under Component 3. Post-reviews will be conducted
from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course contents/trainees and
justifications thereof, and costs incurred.
Prior review:
36. All ICB and emergency procurement for goods will require prior review by IDA.
The first three NCB contracts will require prior review by IDA. Contracts with
consulting firms costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more and contracts with
individual consultants costing the equivalent of US$30,000 or more will require prior
review by IDA. All single-sourced selection of consultants valued at US$5,000
equivalent and above will require prior review by IDA. These prior review
requirements will not apply to community-based operations under Component 3,
except as provided above.
37. A review of the prior review thresholds will be made 12 months after the effective
date of the project; based on performance these thresholds may be revised.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$63.4 million equivalent)
Procurement Method 1_                               _
Expenditure Category     ICB        NCB        Other2   N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Goods                 12.05      4.30       3.15      1.50       21.00*
(12.05)    (4.30)    (3.15)    (0.00)     (19.50)*
2. Services              0.00       0.00       8.20     0.50        8.70
(0.00)    (0.00)     (8.20)    (0.00)     (8.20)
3. Community Based Grants  0.00     0.00       25.00     1.70       26.70
(0.00)    (0.00)     (25.00)   (0.00)     (25.00)
4. Training              0.00       0.00       7.00      0.00       7.00
_(0.00)   (0.00)     (7.00)    (0.00)     (7.00)
Total                     12.05     4.30       43.35    3.70        63.40
(12.05)    (4.30)    43.35)   (0.00)      (59.70)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs
include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national/local shopping,
consulting services, community-based activities, services of contracted staff of the
project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds
to local government units.
* This amount includes operational expenses including supplies.



144
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Category            Procurement          Prior Review      Value (US$          Remarks
Method                                million)
1. Works            At least three       Ex-post          <20                  Civil works up to
Small works under    quotations from                                           US$20,000 per contract
grant financing     qualified contractors                                      and US$200,000 in
aggregate
Conmmunity                                       _
initiatives         Simplified as set    Ex-post                               Prior review thresholds
down in the PIM                                           for NGOs, private Sector
and community initiatives
to be established in PIM
2. Goods            ICB >                                                      Shopping will be
permittedfor up to
US$100,000          All                                   US$2.55 millionfor
contracts valued at
$<100,000 and signed
within 12 months of
Credit effectiveness
NCB<US$100,000    IDA to review                           US$4.3 million in
first 3 contracts                    aggregate
Shopping.           for each                              US$0.5 million in
<US30,000           implementingUS05mlinn
agency                               aggregate including
Direct contracting:                                       direct contracting
Ex-post
<US$5,000
Spares <US$10,000   Ex-post                               US$100,000 in aggregate
3. Consultancies    QCBS>US$50,000    >US$50,000 (for                          For <US$ 100,000
firms)                               contract value only
(contracts with                                                                national consultants may
individual                                                                     be short-listed
consultants
>US$30,000 subject  Individual           >US$30,000 (for
to prior review)                         individuals)
LCS                 >US$50,000 and                        US$250,000 in aggregate
TORs of All
CQ                  >US$30,000 and
TORs for all
Other               >US$5,000 and                         For <US$5,000
TORs of All                           Contracts with
Individual Consultants on
short-term assignments
not to exceed US$75, 000
in aggregate Post-review,
but annualplans to be
reviewed by IDA
4. Training,        QBS/Other            >=20                                  Post-review, but annual
Workshops, Study                                                               plans to be reviewed by
Tours                         _                                                IDA
Frequency ofprocurement supervision mission proposed: Once every six months; in addition, ad-hoc reviews/audits will be done by
the Country Office Procurement Specialist or other appointed consultants.



Financial Management and Disbursements
Financial management:
The project will be coordinated by the PCU, NAC Secretariat, and implemented by
various implementing entities. The NAC Secretariat is responsible for overall
implementation of the project and is accountable for the proceeds of the entire Credit.
The flow of funds is as follows:
Funds flow:
Special Account-A
the Emergency               Project                 Special Account-B
HIV/AIDS Fund        *      Coordinatingonal Secretariat
NGOs and         Woreda                                                  IF
Private          Grants for                   Regional AIDS       Line           National
Organizations    Commnunities                 Council             Ministries     Secretariat
Secretariat and
Regional
Bureaus
through the
Regional
Secretariat



146
The PCU has not yet been established; however, it has been agreed with the
Borrower that a financial management team acceptable to IDA will be mobilized before
Credit effectiveness. The team will perform the accounting and other financial
management functions of the PCU, including preparation of the Financial Management
Manual (FMM). The PIM (which includes the basic accounting procedures), acceptable
to IDA, will be completed by effectiveness.
Other project implementing entities:
Line ministries:
Line ministries are among the implementing entities of the project. After opening a
Birr Project bank account, they will receive money directly from the NAC Secretariat
based on a work plan prepared by each line ministry and approved by the NAC
Secretariat. In some of the ministries, HIV/AIDS units/committees have been established
and in others, there are no units/committees to deal with HIV/AIDS activities. Thus, if a
line ministry is to participate in this project, the first step is to establish a unit/committee
to deal with HIV/AIDS activities in the ministry.
In each line ministry, there is a Finance Department that handles all the transactions
of the ministry. Each department is staffed with a sufficient number of accountants who
are qualified enough to handle the ministry's financial transactions. The department
reports monthly to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the uses of funds obtained from the
MOF. There is also an internal audit department at each of the line ministries whose
main activity is to check compliance with the internal control systems of the ministry. In
addition to this, MOF inspectors regularly inspect the work of the department.
The Finance Department will handle the financial transactions of the project. The
PCU will provide training to the department staff who will handle the recording and
reporting of project transactions in line with government and IDA procedures.
Regional Secretariats:
The Regional AIDS Committee (RAC) Secretariats will coordinate all HIV/AIDS
activities in the regions. Each RAC Secretariat will open a Birr Project bank account to
be used solely for the advances received from the PCU for this project.
The RAC Secretariats will: a) pay for their local operating expenses; and b) make
payments on behalf of the Regional Bureaus, based on an approved work program
prepared by each of the Bureaus. In order to discharge their responsibilities, the RAC
Secretariats will be staffed with skilled and adequate staff including an accountant.
Currently, none of the RAC Secretariats are fully staffed. The establishment of the
project bank account and adequate accounts staffing of the RAC Secretariats will be a
prerequisite for the disbursement of their funds.



147
Woredas:
Selected woredas will receive grant money directly from the EAF for HIV/AIDS
activities. The money from the EAF will be transferred to a Birr Project bank account
opened and used specifically for this purpose. The woredas in turn will transfer money to
the communities in accordance with the PIM
Each woreda has a Finance Office that handles all financial transactions related to
government funds. The main activities of the office are collecting taxes and effecting
payments to sector line ministries and other woreda offices. The office is staffed with
skilled and adequate accounts staff. The Finance Office submits monthly financial
reports to the Zonal Finance Department; inspectors from the Zonal and Regional
Finance Office regularly supervise the work of the woreda office.
The Finance Office will handle the financial transactions of the project. The PCU
and RAC Secretary will provide training to the Finance Office staff who will handle the
recording and reporting of project transactions in line with government and IDA
procedures.
Communities:
Commnunities will receive money from the woredas and report on its use in
accordance with the implementation arrangements in Attachments 2 and 4. The
community organization will manage the activities and be responsible for proper
accounting of the funds. The woreda will monitor the progress and financial
transactions. In addition, there will be publicity regarding the grants made to the
community (e.g., name of organization, activities, and amount of the grant) to enhance
transparency and accountability.
NGOs/POs:
NGOs/ POs will receive money from the EAF. The money will be transferred to
the NGO/PO bank accounts opened for this purpose and payments from these bank
accounts will be made for eligible project expenditures.
Under the country's law, each of the NGOs is required to register with the Ministry
of Justice and the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission (DPPC). Each year,
they are required to file annual audit reports with the DPPC. In addition to this, each of
the NGOs is required to report to their other donors regularly. POs will be required to
comply with Ethiopian law and corresponding auditing requirements.
Based on a review of the systems of several NGOs (international, national, and
regional), it appears that these NGOs have effective financial management systems,
including accounting, reporting, and internal control. However, before making a grant to
an NGO/PO, the EAF will ensure that the organization has a reliable system of
accounting and reporting and will review the latest audited financial statements of the
NGO/PO.



148
Program Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements:
Initially the PCU will not have the capacity to produce PMRs for disbursement
purposes. The capability of the financial management system will be assessed during the
first year of the project to determine if the project can convert to PMR-based
disbursements within 12 months of effectiveness.
The following financial management action plan has been agreed with the
Borrower at negotiations:
Action                           Completion Date                  Responsibility
1. Appointment of a financial    Before effectiveness             PCU
management team at the PCU
2. Appointment of the EAF Fund   Before effectiveness             PCU
Manager
3. Appointment of Accountants at the  Before disbursement to the respective RS  RS and Woreda in coordination
RSs and Woredas                  and Woreda                       with the PCU
4. Completion of Financial Management  2 months after effectiveness  PCU (using the financial
Manual (FMM)                                                      management team)
5. Implementation of the accounting  3 months after effectiveness  PCU (using the financial
system prescribed by the FMM                                      management team)
6. Preparation of complete PMRs  g months after effectiveness     PCU (using the financial
_____________________________________________   aniagement team)
Financial management arrangements:
Methods ofpayment:
Payment from the credit proceeds could be made in three ways:
*   Direct payments by the Bank to suppliers/contractors upon request of the PCU.
This applies to large contracts, which require more than 20 percent of the Special
Accounts (SA) authorized limit. A withdrawal application is prepared and
submitted to the Bank, and then payment will be effected directly to a
supplier/contractor.
*   Payments made through the Special Commitment (SC) upon request of the PCU.
This applies for payments to be made through letters of credit if the amount of the
contract is in excess of the minimum withdrawal application size. In this case, the
Bank gives guarantee to the negotiating bank to settle the amounts on presentation
of certain documents from the bank as agreed in the letters of credit.
*   Payments from the SAs by the PCU. One SA is for Component 3 (the EAF) and
the other SA is for Components 1, 2, and 4.
Detailed accounting procedures for managing the two SAs are shown below. The
other two payment methods are straightforward and need no more explanation.



149
Accountingproceduresfor SA-A:
In line with Component 3 of the project, the EAF will be established to disburse
funds to communities, NGOs, and POs to ensure the timely and effective flow of funds to
these entities. SA-A will be opened for this purpose and the management of this fund
will be carried out by the financial management team acceptable to IDA.
Fund and reportingflows-NGOs and POs:
In accordance with the financing agreement signed between the NGO/PO and EAF,
funds will be transferred to the NGOs/POs from SA-A on a tranche basis. The first
transfer to each of the NGOs and POs will be as outlined in the financing agreement.
Subsequent transfers will be made after the EAF has received interim reports (including
financial and physical reports). The interim reports will be reviewed prior to disbursing
the next tranche. Formats of the financial reports will be in the PIM. All the source
documents will be kept at the offices of the NGOs and POs and should be available for
external auditors and Bank staff during supervision mission.
The EAF team will be responsible for following up with the NGOs/POs to ensure
that reports are received on a timely basis. Each NGO/PO that receives a grant in excess
of the equivalent of US$10,000 will be required to submit an annual audit report to the
EAF.
Based on the financial reports received from the NGOs and POs, the PCU will
request IDA replenishment of the SA. Based on the replenishment application, IDA will
replenish the SA.
Fund and reportingflows-woredas and communtes:
Following the detailed implementation arrangements of the EAF, money will be
transferred to woredas' project bank account from SA-A. This bank account will be used
solely for the purposes of the EAF activities of the woreda; disbursements from this bank
account will require two signatures: one from the WAC and one from the woreda
administration. The woredas are required to submit quarterly financial and progress
reports in line with the PIM. The reports will be reviewed on a regular basis; in addition,
woredas will be subject to random financial and technical audits.
Replenishment of the SA will be made on the basis of SOEs submitted by the
woredas to the PCU. It is assumed that the amount to be given for each of the woredas
will be less than the SOE limit. All the original source documents should be kept at each
of the woreda offices and should be available for external auditors and Bank staff during
supervision mission.
Accounting procedures for SA-B:
SA-B will be used to finance Components 1, 2, and 4. Based on approved work
programs, money will be transferred to each of the Birr Project bank accounts in the line



150
ministries and RAC Secretariats. Each of the line ministries and RAC Secretariats will
maintain proper books of accounts to record all the transactions related to the project.
Each quarter, every line ministry and RAC Secretariat will submit financial and progress
reports to the PCU (formats to be shown in the PIM). Based on the quarterly financial
reports, the PCU will replenish the Birr Project bank accounts at each of the line
ministries and RAC Secretariats. All the original source documents should be kept at the
offices of each of the line ministries and RAC Secretariats and available to external
auditors and Bank staff during supervision mission. The PCU's financial management
team will follow up with the line ministries and RAC Secretariats to receive the interim
financial reports.
The PCU will request replenishment of the SA based on the financial reports
received from the line ministries and RAC Secretariats.
A Birr Project account could be opened by the PCU for the purpose of Component
4 and a 90-day advance could be made from the SA to the local currency account.
Advances to the Birr Project account will be used for eligible expenditures and accounted
for properly by the project financial management team.
Financial reporting and auditing:
Each of the line ministries, RAC Secretariats, NGOs/POs, and woredas will submit
quarterly financial and progress reports in line with the PIM. The PCU will consolidate
all the financial reports from each of the implementing entities and produce monthly,
quarterly, and annual consolidated financial reports. These consolidated accounts will
include the transactions from the EAF, prepared by the EAF fund manager.
The project consolidated annual financial statements will be audited by
independent external auditors appointed by the Federal Auditor General, acceptable to
IDA. Detailed Terms of Reference will be prepared for the auditors by the PCU and
cleared by IDA. The auditors' report should be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of a fiscal year. The auditors' report should include a management
letter to be issued at the end of their audit.



151
Disbursements:
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C):
The project will be implemented over a three-year period, estimated to start on
December 1, 2000. The closing date of the Credit is set for December 1, 2003.
At this stage, the PCU is not ready for PMR-based disbursements. Therefore,
traditional disbursement procedures will be followed for at least the first 12 months.
Table C below sets out the categories of expenditures to be financed by the Credit and the
allocation of the amount of the Credit to each of the categories and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed by the Bank for each category.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category     Amounts in SDR Equivalent   Financing Percentage
Goods                            11,350,000        100% of foreign expenditures
85% of local expenditures
Grants                           18,950,000        100%
Consultancies and Training       10,200,000        100%
Incremental Operating Costs       1,150,000        90%
Unallocated                      3,550,0000
Total                            45,200,000
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
SOEs will be submitted for withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for (i) goods under contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services under contracts costing less than (A)
US$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) US$50,000 equivalent each for
individual consultants; (iii) all Incremental Operating Costs and training; and (iv) all
Grants to (A) woreda, and (B) other Beneficiaries, costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each.
Replenishment of funds from IDA to the SAs will be made on evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the previous advance, reflected in the consolidated SOEs
prepared by the PCU. Withdrawal applications for direct payment and special
comnitmnents will be for a minimum of US$100,000 or 20 percent of the SA authorized
allocations, whichever is lower.



152
Special Accounts:
To expedite disbursements, the Government will open two SAs with the National
Bank of Ethiopia or any other bank acceptable to IDA, operated by the PCU.
One SA will be used exclusively for expenditures incurred by the EAF (i.e.,
Component 3 of the project). These expenditures will include the BGs (in Birr) to the
woredas and the financing of NGOs/POs for community-level activities.
The other SA will be used for expenditures incurred by the NAC Secretariat under
Components 1, 2, and 4 of the project. These expenditures will include operating
expenditures of the NAC Secretariat and amounts advanced to Birr Project accounts,
which will be established for all major participating ministries and the RAC Secretariats.
Expenditures of the Regional Bureaus (RB) will be made from the RAC Secretariat Birr
Project account. Based on initial annual work plans approved by the PCU, the Birr
Project accounts will initially receive funds required to meet the needs of the first quarter.
Subsequent transfers to the Birr Project accounts will be based on the quarterly cash
needs and the receipt and review of quarterly reports (physical progress and financial).
Birr Project accounts will be used solely to pre-finance their direct expenditures related to
approved HIV/AIDS activities under the project.
The authorized allocation for SA-A (for Component 3) will be US$4.0 million; the
authorized allocation for SA-B (for Components 1, 2, and 4) will be US$3.5 million.
Upon Credit effectiveness the PCU will submit withdrawal applications for initial deposit
into the SAs. The two SAs will be used to pre-finance expenditures incurred by the
project directly and also to advance funds to Birr Project accounts, which will be
established for all major executing entities. Auditors carrying out the financial audit will
be required to provide a separate opinion on the procedures and use of the SAs.
Retroactivefinancing:
Up to about US$1,000,000 will be available for retroactive financing for eligible
project expenditures that have been incurred in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines. This will particularly apply to the establishment of facilities for setting up
the Project Administration, preparation of the PIM, and associated workshops and
seminars. This portion of the Credit will be used to reimburse the Government for
eligible expenditures made no earlier than six months from the date of loan signing.
Program Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements:
Recognizing the importance of linking physical progress, the status of procurement,
and financial data on this project, the project will seek to convert to PMR-based
disbursements at least 12 months after effectiveness. While using traditional
disbursements, the project will submit at least PMR reports IA and 3 within 45 days of
the end of each quarter.



153
Attachment 7
Project Processing Schedule
Composition of Task Team:
Task Manager:                        Gebreselassie Okubagzhi (AFMET)
Quality Advisors:                   Debrework Zewdie (ACTafrica)
Hans Binswanger (AFTRE)
Jonathan Brown (AFTQK)
Health Economist:                    Keith Hansen (ACTafrica)
Rene Bonnel (ACTafrica)
Health Specialist:                   Sheila Dutta (ACTafrica)
Jean-Pierre Manshande (AFTH4)
Principal Operations Specialist:     Surjit Singh (AFMET)
Lead Community Development Specialist: Bachir Souhlal (ACTafrcia)
Financial Management Specialist:     Robert J. Saum (LOAAS)
Eshetu Yimer (AFMET)
Procurement Analyst:                 Samuel HaileSelassie (AFMET)
NGO and Civil Society Specialist:    Hagos Araya (AFMET)
Task Team Assistant:                 Elsa Araya (AFMET)
Quality Assurance Arrangements:
The task team included key people from ACTafrica, HDNHE, and AFTQK who have
brought in their long design experience with HIV/AIDS and community-based programs,
as well as an experienced financial management specialist from outside the Region
(LOAAS).
Management Decisions:
Issue               Action/Decision                Responsibility
Identification              June 26 to July 15, 2000        Task Team
Draft Technical Annex       July 10, 2000                   Task Team
Decision Meeting            July 12, 2000                   ROC
Appraisal                   July 17-27, 2000                Task Team
Technical Discussion        July 31, 2000                   Task Team
Negotiations                August 1-4, 2000 (in Washington)  Res. Rep.
Board Package               August 14, 2000                 Task Team
Board Presentation          September 14, 2000              ACTafrica
Total Preparation Budget:   (US$200,000)
Bank Budget:                 US$200,000
Trust Fund:
Cost to Date:               (US$        )
Gebreselassie Okubagzhi         Arvil Van     s          Oe Astra Meesook
Team Leader                     Sector Manager           Country Director



154
Attachment 8. Documents in the Program File
A. Program Implementation Manual
B.  Bank Staff Assessments
C. National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans
D. Regional Plans
E.  Guidelines for the Preparation of the Program Implementation Manual
and Operational Manual for HIV/AIDS Funds
F.  The Impact of World Bank Support to the HNP Sector in Zimbabwe
(OED 1998)
G. Tuberculosis Control Activities in the Context of Care for People
Living with HIV/AIDS (template for activity needs assessment/project
proposals)
H. Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a
Development Crisis (World Bank 1999)
1. Safeguarding Development in the Age of AIDS (World Bank 2000)
J.  Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic, June 2000 (UNAIDS 2000)
K. Terms of Reference for Procurement Specialists



155
Attachment 9. Statement of Loans and Credits
In USD Millions
Original amounts Expected and
Actual
Disbursements
Project ID    Year of  Borrower   Purpose   IBRD  IDA    Cancelled Undisbursed Original Revised
approval
ET-PE-732   1998     Government Education  0.00  100.00 0.0       76.59      16.24   1.76
of Ethiopia  Sect. Inves.
ET-PE-733   1998     Government AG.        0.00  60.00  0.0       52.99      7.35    7.35
of Ethiopia  Research
&Training
ET-PE-734   1993     Government Road       0.00  96.00  0.0       33.13      38.00   37.38
of Ethiopia  Rehabilitati
on
ET-PE-736   1998     Government Energy II  0.00  200.00 0.0       161.48     30.85   30.85
of Ethiopia
ET-PE-752   1995     Government National   0.00  22.00  0.0       11.67      12.32   18.64
of Ethiopia  Seeds
ET-PE-753   1995     Government National   0.00  120.00 0.0       20.68      5.65    6.87
of Ethiopia  Ferdlizer
ET-PE-755   1998     Government Road Sec.  0.00  309.20 0.0       250.77     85.00   6.64
of Ethiopia  Dev.
ET-PE-756   1999     Govermnent Health Sect. 0.00  100.00 0.0     89.80      29.88   6.87
of Ethiopia  Invest.
ET-PE-758   1994     Government Calub      0.00  74.31  0.0       59.05      60.36   60.36
of Ethiopia  Energy
ET-PE-764   1996     Govermment Water      0.00  35.73  0.0       19.17      22.80   5.21
of Ethiopia  Supply &
Rehab.
ET-PE-771   1996     Government ESRDF    0.00  120.00 12.8        54.63      22.06   63.59
of Ethiopia
Total                                      0.00  1237.24 12.8     829.96     330.51  245.52
IBRD       IDA
Original             108,600,000 2,908,756,9
Principal                       76
Cancellation         3,023      206,145,300
Disbursed            108,596,977 1,913,881,5
37
Undisbursed          0          829,796,822
Repaid               102,561,482  145,204,095



156
Attachment 10. Ethiopia at a Glance
Ethiopia    Sub-         Low-
POVERTY AND SOCIAL                                                 Sallarlnl    Income
Afria                          D-v-lopmant diamo
I998
Population. Mid-year (Milions)                                 61.3        628          3.515                                  Life X  pec*anCy
GNP per capita (Atls method. US$)                              100         480          520
GNP (Atias Method. USS biflions)                               6.1         304          1.844                                            T
Average annuad growth. 1992-98
Population (%)                                                 2.V/a       2.6          1.7
Labor force (%)                                                            2.6          19                 G(     I NP
Most recent estiate (lattst year 2vaflabkle.                                                               pa'
1992-98                                                                                                    Oapi                                              anre
Poverty (' of populatioa below national                        45
poverty Hae)
Urban Populatio- (%of total populatitn)                        17          33           31
Life expectancy at birth (year0                                43          51           63
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 Ive births)                        107         91           69
Chdid Malnutrition (% of chldren under 5)                      48                                                           ArCess to safe wwatie r
Areess to uafe water (% of populatien)                         26          47           74
miteray (% ofpopolation)                                       65          42           32
Gross primary earolhneat (%of school-age                       38          77           108                           .....
population Male
Male                                                 4s          U4           113           _
Female                                               27          69           103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS AND LONG-
TERM TRENDS                                                                                                iEe..10l ratims
1977     1987         1997        1998
GDP (UJSS billons)                                             7.4         6.4          6.6                                      Trade
Grss Domestie invesinentVGD.                                   14.6        19.1         18.2
Eiports of goods and servtcsGDP                                84          15.8         15.8
Gross domestic savingsIGDEP                          .         64          8.6          6.3                                          T
Gross nationa svbg                                   _         8.5         12.0         10.3 
Current account balance/GDP                                    -59         -71          -7.9                                                         Inveatment
Interest ?Ayment&/GDP                                          0.8         1.1          1.6
toa debt/GDP                                                   98.9         149.3       149.5
Total debt sevce/exports                             5.9       38.9        30.5         10.8
Present va   of debt/GDP                                                   129.7        120.5
Presnt value of debt/exports                                               795.0        762.5                                lndobtcdnacec
1977-87    1988-    197          1990        1999.03                       -E         thionp,
(average anna growthO                                9-e-rouD
GD?                                       -0.3       3.6       5.9         -1.0         6.4
GNP per capita                            -3.0       0.6       2.9         -4.6         3A.
Export ofGoods and servicts               3.7        4.2       51.8        .9.4         7.1
STRUCTURE OF THE ECONOMY
1977       1987       1997       1998
(% of GD?)
Agricultre                                           --         49.8       55.5       49.8                 r         mo.. _  ..et.n nn vnror
Industry                                                        15.3       6.7        6.7
Manufacturing                                         9.1                                        rv '.
Services                                                         34.9      37.0       43.5        *     e      4 \
Private consurnption                                            78.7       80.0       79.4                    ___
Geneaal govenment consumption                                    14.8       11.4      14.3                 a          a       s      s _
ImpoTs of goods and services                                     16.5      26.4       27.7                                       GOI         -G DP
1977.87    1988-98    1997      1998
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                          -2.1       2.7        3.4        -10.3
Industy                                              2.2        2.7        6.8        6.3                 Uroweth raises eof exprta and lImports -)
Manufactrig                                -1.6       2.9        5.9        5.8                I" 0
Service                                               1.6       4.8        7.1        10.4                7 
Generd govemment conniption                          2.5        -1.0        13.4       31.3                         ^
Gross donestic investmnent                            1.2       7.4        5.9        -5.7                                                           WV
Inports of goods and services                       0.9        2.3        1.8        11.7               -r
Gro  natimao product                                 -0.4       3.6        5.9        -1.8               -
_~~~Ext -EYP                   _npon-                    _
Note: Data in fiscal years ending June 30 of year shown unless otherwise indicated.
* The diamond show four key indicators in the country (in bold) conpared with its income-group average  If data are missing, the diamond wilt be inconplete



157
PRICES AND GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977       1987        1997       1998
Domestic pnces
(56 change)
Consumnerpria                                            16.7       -2.4       -6.4         3.6                  IntgatlOn
Inplicit GDP deflator                                               -6.4        3.2         9.7                  Io
Government finance
(% ofGDPinclude c ngrnt) gran 
Current revenue                                                     19.0        18.2        18.0
Current budget baance                                               1.9         4.4        2.2               53                       9 *   _ 
Ovll surplus/deficit                                                -7.1       -5.2        -6.8                  11
GDP dos Ir    -  I   CPI
Trade
1977       1987        1997       1998
(USS million)
Totalesports(fob)                                       312         391         599        602
Coffee                                                   253         355         420
Hides                                                    52          57          51                         Np..t ..d IMp.Dt I.lft (US* MneI.-)
Manufectures                                 ..
ToW Impn   (cio                                          386        1081        1403        1519                        .
Food                                                      194        Ito         172                         a* 
Fuel and eney                                             109        232         246
Capital goods                                            463  515  569                                          W             w**_
Export pce index (1995=100)                                         77          86         99             _nn
Imporltpricexndex(1995=100)                                         118         107         104
Tean ofTrade                                                        65          81         95                                       -        -      ' -              
BALANCE OF PAYMENT
1977       1987        1997       1998
(US$ millions)
Export of goods and servicen                            406         623         1012       1037
Import ofgoods and servicm                              510         1217        1683        1815
Rource balance                                          -105        -594        -671       -778
Curra nt account bals no, to GOP ratio
Net incone                                              -2          -48         -43        -91                        a
Net cwrent umasfers                                     59          204         259        349
Curmnt account balance                                   -47        -473        -455       -520
Firancing item (net)                                    26   416  265  650                                               II1*111
Changes in net reerves                                   74         21          191        -129                       *-*
Resarva including gold (US$ millions)                   260         224         584        412
Conversion rate (DEC bcaUSS)                            2.1         2.1         6.5        6.9                         .
EXTERNAL DEBT AND RESOURCE FLOWS/B
1977       1987        1997       1998
(USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     501        7364        9529       9812
EbRD                                          66          57         0           0
IDA                                           142        601         1604        1632
Totaldebteservice                                       25          249         317         114
IBRD                                          10          13         0           0
IDA                                           I   9   26  29                                                          4b 
Conmosition of net resource flows
Official grant                                44         346
Officia creditors                             41         422         14          -209                                 -
Private creditors                             -2          72         -163        -6                                      - -
Foreign direct invetmnent                     6           -3         -.         ..       , ,              D _
Portfolio equty                               0          0           ..         ..
World Bank Progran
Conitmenta                                    57         50          0           769
Disburweenent                                 35         86          64          69
Principalrepaynrts                            5           13         15          18
Net flows                                     30          73         49          51
Interest payments                             6           10         11          11
Net transfers                                 24         64          38          40



HIV/AIDS Prevalence Ranking in Sub-Saharan Africa: 16
Background
li il he early ycars of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, people engaginig in higih-risk behavior were
most affected. HIV prevalence amonio,g sex workers tested in Addis Ababa increased fromi
less thain I percenit in 1985 to 54 percent in 1990  Prevalence among male STI patients           _=
tested in Addis Ababa rose from 8 pcrcent in 1987 lo 38 perccnt in 1992
-  In recent years, the epidem1ic has becotme increasingly generalized. In Addis Ababa. HIV
prevalence among antenatal clinic attendccs rose from 5 percent in 1989 to 20 percent in
1993; in 1997, 18 percent of antenatal clinic attendees tested in Addis Ababa were HIV-
positive  Outside Addis Ababa. prevalence among anlenatal clinic attendees increased from
5 percent in 1991 to 9 percent in 1998
-  The epidemic is orphaning Ethiopian childrein in huge nmibers  By the end of 1999. 1.2
million children had lost their mother or both parents to AIDS
)   Information on knowledge and belhavior related to HIVWAIDS is essential in identifying
populations at risk of infectioii and is critical in assessing changes over time as a result of
prevention efforts In 1994, less thaltn half of people ages 15-49 (urban males and females)
reported using a condom during the most recent intercouirse of risk.
IIIV Prevalence nimong Pregmant
Country Response/Obstacles                                                                              Woniemi, Urban (percent)
10
'   In 1998, the Council of Ministers ratified the national HIV/AIDS policy, advocating a        25l
multisectoral response to the epidemtic  However, the healthi sector remains the only player  20            i
in many regionis of the counitry.                                                            is
-  All 11 regions of the country have formulated strategic plans for 1998-2002 an d a national     |-
strategic framework for the HIV/AIDS response has been drafted                                5
>   An international conference focusing on the epidemic in Ethiopia took place in November
1999. Participants discussed new initiatives to prevent firtiler spread of HIV to niral   |      % "         "9     1'995  1997
populations and school-aged children                                                      |                                     I
'  The instability of Ethiopian society caused by war and famine and the breakdown of coin-
niumity cohesiveness continme to contribuite to epidemic spread and hinder efforts to stop it
|   AIDS C asee Reported by Age, 7
C'ummilative C'ases through 1997
Bank Activities to Date
Yes    No
Is HIV/AIDS a regular part of our high-level dialogue with govt and civil society?           30.|
Does l-IV/AIDS receive substanibve treatnient in the CAS or its updhate?  | v_-_l
Has the portfolio been reviewed for MWIV/AIDS retrofitting?            |   v   |            | ,00_|_l
Do all projects include the necessary HIV/AID)S-iitigation componienits'?  Undemway             0 A  |  o  -_        -
Does the Banlk regularly attetnd UNAIDS meetings?                          1                       04 5-14 1 5  20- 30- 40- 50- A 0+
-                  10~~~I  29  30  40  59
Project Name              Approval Date        $M           AIDS $M                                 Male    1     Female
Health Sector Dev Program        10/27/98             100 0        2 0
Multi-scctoral HIV/AIDS Project  9/14/00              59 7         59 7
Lire Expectaiicy with and without
Opportunities                                                                                         AIDS, 1998 and 2010 (years)
ITo be identified by the Countrv Team.]                                                                                    I
158                            2010
/  1 1 /1 /  |    0  10  20  30  40  50  60  70
Without AIDS   A   With AIDS



KENYA
Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Africa Regional Office
AFTIHI
Date: August 14,2000                            Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg
Country Manager/Director: Harold E. Wackman     Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai
B. Mutumbuka
Project ID: P070920                             Sector(s): MY-Multi-sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s: HIV/AIDS
._____________________ ____________________ _   Poverty  Targeted  Intervention:  N
Project Financing Data:
Loan               Credit AV              Grant               Other (specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 37.9 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms: Standard IDA
Grace Period (years): 10                 Years to Maturity: 40
Commitment Fee: Up to 0.5%               Service Charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:           Local              Foreign               Total
Source (US$M)                                        __       __
GOVERNMENT                         2.4                 0.0                  2.4
IDA                               47.0                 3.0                 50.0
Total:                            49.4                 3.0                 52.4



Borrower: Government of Kenya
Responsible Agency: Office of the President
Address: Office of the President, National AIDS Control Council, Kenyatta National Hospital
Grounds, P.O. Box 19361, Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Dr. T. Mboya
Tel: (254) (2) 714972/ 729549    Fax: (254) (2) 729504/726036 Email:
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY            2001/2002         2002/2003         2003/2004          2004/2005
Annual              4.8               15.2               15                15
Cumulative          4.8               20                 35                50
Project Implementation Period: 4 years
Expected Effectiveness Date: December 1, 2000
Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2005
Implementation Period
Total Financing Required                Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4
Project Costs                                                                _ _
Investment Costs                          4.7        15.4         15.0        15.0
Recurrent Costs                           0.5         0.6         0.6         0.6
Total Project Costs                       5.2        16.0         15.6        15.6
Total Financing                           5.2        16.0         15.6        15.6
Financing
IDA                                       4.8        15.2         15.0        15.0
Government                               0.4          0.8         0.6         0.6
Total Project Financing                   5.2        16.0         15.6        15.6
OCS PAD F-m R.v. M.d,. 2WO



Table of Contents
A.    Project Purpose and Development Objective .................................................... 163
Project purpose ..........................................................                                    163
Project development objective ..........................................................                     163
Key performance indicators ...........................................................                       163
B.    Strategic Context ..........................................................                               164
Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .... 164
Main sector issues and Government strategy                         ....................................... 164
Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices   .                        ..................... 167
C.    Project Description Summary ..........................................................                     170
Overall project design ...........................................................                           170
D. Project Rationale ...............                                                                             172
Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other ...................................... 172
Development Agencies (completed, ongoing, and planned) ...................................... 172
Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        .        ........................... 172
Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership ........................................... 173
Value added of Bank support in this project                       ....................................... 174
Implementation support and supervision arrangements ........................................... 174
E.  Risks ...........................................                                                            175
Critical risks ............................................ 177
F.  Main Loan Conditions ...........................................                                             178
Effectiveness Conditions ........................................... 178
Other ............................................                                                           178
Financial Covenants ...........................................                                               178
G.  Readiness for Implementation ...........................................                                     179
H. Compliance with Bank Policies .179



Attachments
1.        Project Design Summary ..........................................................                            180
2.    Project Description ..........................................................                                   188
Project components ..........................................................                                       188
Part A: Support to line ministries (US$10.3 million) ...........................                  ................. 188
Part B: Coordination of program and project activities by NACC and its
decentralized entities (US$12.1 million) ..........................................................   190
Part C: Support to implementation of initiatives from civil society, private sector,
and research institutions (US$30.0 million) ......................................................   191
3. Project Costs                                                   .. 194
4. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements .195
The overall project                          ..195
Part A: The line ministries                          ..195
Part B: Program coordination by the NACC and its decentralized entities ..                                          196
Part C: The HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account   .                                        .197
S.     Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................................................                            198
Project implementation monitoring ........................                        .................................. 198
Process monitoring ..........................................................                                       199
Impact monitoring ..........................................................                                        199
6.  Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ....... 200
Financial management .......................................................... 200
Operation of a project special bank account .......................................................... 200
Flow  of funds .......................................................... 201
Accounting for funds released to NACC  for coordinating activities ...................... 201
Accounting for funds released to implementing ministries .................                        ................... 201
Accounting for funds released to the HIV/AIDS community initiative account .... 202
Project-level budgetary control and monitoring .....................................................  204
Auditing arrangements ..........................................................                                205
Procurement ..........................................................                                              205
General ..........................................................                                              205
Institutional Arrangement ..........................................................                            206
Procurement Capacity Assessment ..........................................................                      207
Procurement of Goods, Works, and Consulting Assignments ................................ 208
Civil Works ..........................................................                                          208
Goods ..........................................................                                                209
Grants to community-based sub-projects ..........................................................                210
Services .......................................................... 211
Training, Workshops, and Study Tours .................................................... ...... 212
Prior Review  .......................................................... 212
Disbursement .......................................................... 215
7.    Project Processing Schedule ..........................................................                           217
Composition of Task Tear: ..........................................................                                217
Management Decisions: ..........................................................                                    217
8.    Documents in the Project File ..........................................................                         218
9.    Status of Bank Group  Operations ..........................................................                      219
10.  Kenya at a Glance ..........................................................                                      221
11.  Kenya HIV/AIDS Brief ..........................................................                                   223



A. PROJECT PURPOSE AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
Project purpose:
1.  The project contributes to the partnership against HIV/AIDS in Kenya by
supporting the Government's program as articulated in the National HIV/AIDS Strategic
Plan. The purpose of this program is to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, to mitigate the
socio-economic impact of the disease, and to increase access to care and support for
people infected or affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya. The overall project is
based on a new approach for addressing HIVIAIDS, supporting and strengthening
community-based responses to the epidemic. The National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, the
Executive Summary of which is annexed in the Project Implementation Plan, is the
reference for both the program and the project.
Project development objective:
2.   The objective of the project is to intensify the multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS
and accelerate the process of achieving the targets as elaborated in the National Strategic
Plan with broad participation of communities.
Key performance indicators:
3.  While a more extensive list of indicators appears in the logical framework, the
project will contribute to the achievement of two key targets indicating progress against
the goal of reducing the transmission of HIV in Kenya as described in the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan:
i) the decrease from 14 percent to 13 percent of HIV prevalence among people aged
15-24 years by 2003;
ii) by 2004, HIV/AIDS prevalence among adults (15-49 years) will remain below 14
percent.
4.  The following constitute the summary indicators for outputs, process and impact of
the program:
A. Output Indicators
The percentage of Credit Proceeds under Part C disbursed per constituency, district, and
province;
The number of line ministries that have sensitized their staff on the facts about
HIV/AIDS;
The number of public sector training institutions that have integrated HIV/AIDS issues in
their curriculum;
The percentage of CACCs/DACCs/PACs having submitted approved proposals under
Part C;
The proportion of proposals under Part C that focus on prevention, and care and support,
respectively.



164
B. Process Indicators
The percentage of districts and constituencies that have functional voluntary counseling
and testing (VCT) centers;
Knowledge of parent-to-child transmission and ways to prevent it;
The percentage of districts and constituencies that have functional patient support
centers;
The extent to which H1V/AIDS issues are examinable subjects in a) primary schools; b)
secondary schools; and c) other training institutions;
The percentage of districts and constituencies with active programs to support orphans;
As above for widows;
VCT utilization rates;
The percentage of ministries with budget line items for HIV/AIDS-related programs.
C. Impact Indicators
Prevalence rates of HIV infection, by age group and gender;
Median age at first sex;
Reported condom use at last sex with non-regular Partner;
STI incidence/prevalence;
Primary school enrollment and completion rates among orphans;
The number of non-regular sexual partners during a defined period, by marital status, age
group, and gender.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
5.   To promote long-term poverty reduction, and target and improve the effectiveness
of poverty-focused interventions by concentrating project assistance on key social
sectors.
Document number:   18391 KE  Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/24/1998
Main sector issues and Government strategy:
6.   Approximately 14 percent of all adults (15-49 years) in Kenya are infected with
HIV, with the prevalence rate exceeding 20 percent in some districts. Of the
approximately 2.2 million Kenyans who are now infected, 106,000 are children under the
age of five years. Of particular concern is HIV prevalence among young women, with 24
percent of women aged 15-24 being infected versus 4 percent of men in the same age
group (1998 Demographic and Health Survey). On average, close to 500 people in
Kenya are estimated to die daily because of AIDS, with 80 percent of these being aged
15-49 years-the most economically productive. The economic loss incurred by the
country is estimated at US$3 million daily.
7.   Kenya has achieved significant success in making HIV/AIDS-related information
and services available to its people. Basic awareness of the disease and ways to prevent
transmission are high. Condom use has increased dramatically from 0.3 million being



165
used each month in 1990 to 10 million per month today. Blood screening has resulted in
more than 98 percent of the country's blood supply being safe from HIV. However,
prevalence has continued to increase despite these gains (see Figure 1), and life
expectancy has decreased from a projected figure of 65.4 years without AIDS for the
period 1995-2000 to an actual figure of 54.7 years with AIDS. By 2005, life expectancy
is projected to further decline to 53.1 years. To date, HIV/AIDS has been addressed
primarily as a health issue; however, in actuality it has become a national development
crisis that reaches far beyond the health sector.
Figure 1
Kenya: Estimated HIV Prvalence
1990- 198
15 
, 12
.- 9
6
I-~~~~~ 
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998
8.  The impact of HIV on poverty is significant. With the negative impact of
HIV/AIDS on all aspects of development, it compromises all other measures intended to
reduce poverty. In addition to escalating health care expenditures for both the
government and families, the disease has created growing numbers of AIDS orphans. It
reduces the size and experience of the labor force, with negative economic impact for
households and the economy at large. This impact is exacerbated by the fact that it
strikes mainly people in their most productive years. Therefore, prevention and
mitigation of HIV/AIDS is central to an effective poverty-reduction strategy, as the
economic effects of AIDS ripple outwards from individuals to their families, to frms and
businesses, and to the macro economy.
9.  HIV/AIDS exacerbates poverty because of its negative impact on all aspects of
development. Several studies (by the Food and Agriculture Organization [FAO], among
others) have shown how effectively HIV/AIDS can drive households into poverty when
their assets (e.g., livestock) are sold to cover the costs of medical care, or when the
available labor force becomes insufficient to tend to the necessary agricultural activities.
10. Therefore it seems likely that in Kenya measures to reduce poverty cannot succeed
in the current environment where HIV prevalence is high and increasing. Therefore,



166
prevention and mitigation of HIV/AIDS is central to an effective poverty-reduction
strategy, while poverty reduction in itself is needed to mitigate the socio-economic
impact that the epidemic imposes on society.
11. Poverty provides the conditions for the spread of HIV/AIDS. The impact of
poverty on women drives them to adopt coping mechanisms that may include increased
risk exposure (e.g., commercial sex). Poverty also limits the scope for long-term
development prospects, thereby reducing the barriers for taking otherwise unacceptable
risks. A study in Kenya has shown that school enrollment rates for children from HIV
affected households, including orphans, are significantly lower than the national average.
The limited access to formal education of this increasingly substantial cohort of children,
particularly girls, may well provide the fertile ground for poverty and increased risk of
exposure to HIV.
12. The fact that HIV prevalence has been rising steadily throughout the 1990s is of
considerable importance. It indicates that the most serious impacts of the Kenyan
epidemic, in terms of overall morbidity, mortality, and socio-economic consequences, are
yet to come.
13. Between 2000 and 2010, another 3.2 million Kenyans may die, for a cumulative
total of 4.5 million deaths since the beginning of the epidemic. This is enormous
mortality for a mid-sized country and illustrates that the full brunt of HIV/AIDS will be
felt in the future. Figure 2 illustrates this point well.
Figure 2
Kenya: Cumulative AIDS Deaths
4.8 -          1980 - 2010
4.5
3.6
.0 2.4
1 .2
0
1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010
14. Realizing the enormity of the problem, the Government of Kenya has declared
AIDS a national disaster and established the National AIDS Control Council (NACC) to
coordinate a multi-sectoral response to the crisis. NACC was established in December
1999, in accordance with the National AIDS Policy, which was passed by Parliament in
1997. A small Secretariat for NACC is currently being recruited and is expected to be
operational by the end of August 2000.



167
15. AIDS Control Units (ACUs) are currently being established in seven ministries,
and ACUs will subsequently be established in the remaining eight ministries and seven
"major departments" over the next year, for a total of 22 ACUs to be coordinated by
NACC. The NACC will be responsible for the implementation of the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, which is now being finalized. At the district and provincial
levels, Provincial AIDS Control Committees (PACCs)/Provincial AIDS Control
Coordinators and District AIDS Control Committees(DACCs)/District AIDS Control
Coordinators will coordinate the decentralized aspects of the strategy's implementation.
The Constituency AIDS Control Committees (CACCs) will be responsible for the
coordination of efforts at the community level.
16. Within the context of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan the following
priorities have been recognized and the project will, complementary to the efforts by all
partners and other Bank-financed projects, focus on the same.
* Prevention and Advocacy
- Behavior modeling and promotion of behavior change
- Prevention of blood-borne infection
-  Treatment and control of sexually transmitted infections (STIs)
- Prevention of parent-to-child transmission of HIV
3 Treatment and Support of Continuum of Care of the Infected and Affected
* Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research
- Mitigation of the Socio-economic Impact of HIV/AIDS
* Management and Coordination
Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
17. Institutional and Organizational Development: The Sessional Paper on AIDS,
which comprises the National AIDS Policy, provides for the participation of all sectors of
society in the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. This decision by
the Government to expand the responsibility for the response to the epidemic beyond the
health sector and the public sector brings important and major challenges for the
establishment of a new institutional and organizational framework. An important aspect
of the project will be to support the institutional and organizational development of the
multi-sectoral response. Analytical work (e.g., impact assessments), technical assistance
to design appropriate organizational mechanisms, and capacity building to formulate and
design adequate interventions will be supported by the project. This support will be
inclusive of the coordinating agencies at various levels (NACC/PACCs/DACCs/CACCs)
as well as the implementing agencies such as the ACUs, the private sector, Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs)/Community-Based Organizations (CBOs), the
Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS, and research institutions.
18.  The Prevention of New HIVInfections: Reducing the incidence of HIV is the
single most important objective to address the epidemic. Strategies and activities to
achieve this vary according to the target population and encompass health education, sex
education, anticipatory guidance for children and parents, peer support programs,
behavior-change interventions, the promotion of condom use, voluntary counseling and



168
testing, the promotion of abstinence, the prevention of parent-to-child transmission, the
reduction of susceptibility through STI treatment, the screening of blood before
transfusion, post-exposure treatment for rape-victims, etc. The implementing agencies
will be required to put special emphasis on three target groups for prevention activities to
be funded under the project: a) the poor and vulnerable (e.g., women and children); b)
those in whom significant investments will be made or have been made (e.g., new
recruits, school and university entrants, employees); and c) potential core transmitters of
HIV (e.g., commercial sex workers, migrant workers, truck drivers, construction
workers). The extent to which the various implementing agencies will be involved with
any given target group will depend on their respective mandates and access to these
groups.
19. Major roles are anticipated for the education sector (children, school and university
entrants, employees), the private sector (employees, new recruits, migrant workers),
public sector institutions (employees, new recruits), especially those with important
extension services like agriculture, police, defense, health, and livestock (rural poor and
vulnerable), and NGOs/CBOs (commercial sex workers, women, the poor, street
children). NACC and its equivalents at the provincial, district, and constituency levels
will be supported to coordinate these activities, promote consistency in the various
approaches, and disseminate experiences and best practices. NACC's work-program will
include the development of clear guidelines on breastfeeding, vaccination, and treatment
of HIV positive expectant women, as well as support for HIV orphans and other
vulnerable populations. These guidelines will be based on the latest national and
intemational research policy.
20.  Mitigating the Socio-Economic Impact of the HIVIAIDS Epidemic: The HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Kenya has significant impact on individuals, households, businesses, public
institutions, and whole sectors. The growing number of orphans poses an enormous
challenge for the social sectors. Reaching them in order to provide just the very basic
health and education services already constitutes a significant problem. Coping
mechanisms for households are stretched to the limit and businesses find themselves
confronted with increased costs for social benefits, a high turnover of staff, and a less-
productive workforce. Whole sectors such as health, agriculture, and education now
realize that their usual service delivery mechanisms and the content of those services will
have to be revisited (an example of the issues in rural extension services is given in Box
1). Implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan will include measures to be
supported by the project to mitigate these effects of the epidemic, including the design
and promotion of social safety nets for those affected by HIV/AIDS.



169
Box 1: Excerpt from FAO study in Rakai, Uganda
"Extension workers are often absent from work to attend funerals and care for sick relatives. At the
same time, several staff members from all levels have contracted the disease and some have died. The
problem was compounded by the fact that it is difficult to find trained people to replace former staff,
both because the area is remote and also because it has the reputation of being a highly HIV/AIDS-
affected area.
The epidemic has also made it more difficult for extension staff to meet the farmers; if a meeting should
coincide with a funeral, the meeting has to be rescheduled. As there were as many as 10 to 15 deaths a
month in the community, such meetings were difficult to organize.
Extension messages will have to be revised to take into account the impact of the disease on agricultural
systems. Extension packages appropriate for families with plenty of labor rnight not be suitable for
households where several adults have died. Special target groups such as widows and orphans will
have to be paid special attention."
21.  IncreasingAccess to Care and Supportfor Those Infected orAffected by
HIVIA IDS: An estimated 2.2 million HIV infected people are currently living in Kenya.
In addition, an estimated 700,000 children have been orphaned through the death of their
mother or both parents. To provide at least a basic, sustainable, but meaningful package
of care and support to both groups poses enormous economic, social, ethical, and
organizational challenges to Kenyan society. While there are great efforts undertaken by
families, communities, the Government, and its development partners to address the
issues involved, there remains a huge and growing demand. The project will support
activities that increase access to social support services, such as patient support groups
coordinated by the Network of People Living with HIV/AlDS, and initiatives to provide
care and support for orphans. Activities will be formulated that promote the human
rights of those infected or affected, including the articulation of policies that guard
against discrimination in employment practices and access to benefits. The support for
medical care, in the form of treatment for opportunistic infections, including tuberculosis,
will be addressed through the parallel health project (Decentralized AIDS and
Reproductive Health-DARE).
22. Promoting an Enabling Socio-Cultural Environment for a Multi-sectoral Response:
One of the key reasons a broader approach to the HIV/AIDS issue is necessary is the
influence of socio-cultural norms and values on the spread of the disease. Attitudes
toward gender, religious teachings on sexuality, and social and cultural practices often
facilitate the spread of HIV. Efforts will be made to promote socio-cultural norms,
values, and beliefs that are consistent with the reduction of HIV transmission, and that
protect the human rights of those infected or affected by HIV. NACC-coordinated
activities are expected to pursue this objective through education, advocacy, counseling,
consultation, and intensified enforcement of both customary and written laws,
particularly with respect to gender-specific issues. The reduction of stigma will receive
special attention as it constitutes an important obstacle for affected individuals and
households to access support and care services. The project will support such efforts
through both the financing of work-programs of the implementing partners of NACC and
of activities directly coordinated by NACC on this issue.



170
23. Women are especially vulnerable to HIV infection due to a variety of social and
biological factors. The Government will work with community agencies to provide
support for activities that reduce the risk of HIV infection among women, such as basic
education on sexual and reproductive health, HIV, and STIs; activities for youth designed
to delay sexual debut; harmonizing the age of consent, marriage, and maturity to 18
years; encouraging voluntary testing; and empowering women on matters pertaining to
access to information, employment, and economic/social recognition.
24. A large percentage of new HIV infections occur among youth, particularly young
women (15-19 years). NACC, in close cooperation with the education sector, will
provide direction in the development of culturally, morally, and scientifically acceptable
AIDS education programs for youth in and out of school and advocate for the protection
of youth against behaviors that place them at increased risk of HIV infection. These
activities will be supported both through the financing of work-programs and activities
coordinated by NACC.
25. Research: Developments in the area of HIV/AIDS are occurring rapidly, as related
to new approaches in the field of prevention as well as in relation to treatment and care.
Studies are needed to establish the effectiveness, feasibility, affordability, and
appropriateness of these in the Kenyan context. In addition, in order to develop an
appropriate response, impact assessments that quantify specific changes due to
HIV/AIDS are needed in various sectors. NACC has the mandate to set the priority
research agenda and the project will consider supporting studies that may lead to a more
effective and efficient response to the epidemic. It is anticipated that studies related to
parent-to-child transmission, women-controlled methods for HIV and STI prevention
such as microbicides, and impact studies will be supported.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
Overall project design:
26. During the early phase of implementation, the project is designed to facilitate the
launch of the expanded and intensified response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya.
Since the arrangements and mechanisms for this expanded response are in their early
stages of development, considerable flexibility has been provided to adjust work-
programs after the first year of project implementation. The first year of project
implementation has been fully defined, describing the activities that could, and should, be
implemented sooner rather than later. During project preparation significant lack of
detail was allowed in the work-programs for subsequent years although clear frameworks
and criteria for project activities have been agreed.
27.  The following five priority areas of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan will be
supported. These five themes run through the three components of the project described
in attachment 4:



171
i)  Prevention and Advocacy: Includes behavior modeling and promotion of
behavior change through community mobilization for social change to reduce
the spread of HIV, promotion of counseling and voluntary HIV testing, and
protecting children and youth from HIV. Priority strategies are to prevent
sexual transmission and parent-to-child transmission.
ii)  Treatment and Support of the Continuum of Care of the Infected and Affected:
Includes training, drugs, supplies, and equipment support to institutions to
provide HIV/AIDS management, counseling, and home-based care. The
priority strategy is to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on society.
iii) Management and Coordination: Includes training, management, and
coordination support to the NACC Secretariat, 22 ACUs in line ministries and
departments, eight PACCs, 68 DACCs, and 210 CACCs. Review of national
policies and finalization of legislation to support AIDS prevention and
mitigation are also included. The priority strategy is to increase efficiency and
effectiveness in the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.
iv)  Mitigation of the Socio-economic Impact: Includes support to the most
vulnerable orphans and widows in the community. These community-based
activities will be coordinated through the CACCs. Mobilization of community-
based associations, the private sector, civil society, and Government
departments to support people most devastated by AIDS will be enhanced. The
priority strategy is to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on society.
v)  Research, Monitoring, and Evaluation: Includes basic operations research to
strengthen prevention and care, surveillance, monitoring, and implementation of
the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. The priority strategy is to increase
efficiency and effectiveness in implementation of this strategic plan.
The three project components are:
*   Support to line ministries (US$10.3 million): The purpose of this component is to
initiate, facilitate, and support the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS-related activities
into all line ministries.
*   Coordination of program and project activities by NACC and its decentralized
entities (US$12.1 million): This component will focus on the institutional
strengthening of NACC and related entities (PACCs, DACCs, and CACCs) and the
activities by these institutions to co-ordinate the national program as well as the
project activities.
*   Support to implementation of initiatives from civil society, private sector, and
research institutions (US$30.0 million): This component will make financial
resources available to civil society, private sector, and research institutions, with a
strong priority given to community-driven initiatives.



172
* PROJECT RATIONALE
Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies
(completed, ongoing, and planned):
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                   Project                      (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                             Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
HNP: HIV/AIDS            Cr. 2686: Sexually Transmitted          S                S
Infections Project
(Closes June 30, 2001)
HNP: Decentralization,  Kenya Decentralized HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS and             and Reproductive Health Project
Reproductive Health      (Board Date: October, 2000)      : - ;-:
Other development
agencies
CIDA                     STI Management Program Support     .
DFID                     NGO/Program/Budget Support
EU                       NGO/Program Support
GTZ                      NGO/Program Support
JICA                     Research
UNAIDS                   Program Support
UNDP                     Program Support
UNICEF                   Prevention of PTCT/Program Support
UNFPA                    Program Support
USAID                    NGO/Program Support
WHO0                     Program Support
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
28. Stakeholder Consultation: Key stakeholders, particularly those with an important
role in implementation, should be involved from project identification, through
preparation and appraisal, and throughout implementation. The project has been
prepared in as consultative a manner as possible in the short time available. The
community and CBO/NGO focus of the project design will assure consultation during
implementation.
29. Procurement: The employment of an independent procurement agency should be
considered whenever appropriate. Provision has been made for procurement support, but
a procurement agency would not be appropriate for this project in view of the limited
procurement under Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.



173
30. Financial Management: Particularly given the new structures, it is important to
have both sound financial management and clear accountability in place for both
Government of Kenya and external financing. Particular stress has been put on this
during preparation and it is reflected in the detailed documentation available on financial
management.
31. Implementing across Ministries: Past experience with IDA projects has
demonstrated the undesirability of implementing projects across multiple ministries, and
Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) have recommended avoiding this approach
in the future. Obviously, a multi-sectoral AIDS project has no choice. However, the
risks inherent in this arrangement will be mitigated by the fact that the project will be
coordinated by NACC, which is located in the Office of the President. Coordination
from OP gives the project sufficient authority over the other ministries involved to
facilitate timely resolution of the types of problems that have plagued past projects.
32. Policy Body vs. ImplementingAgency: The experience of IDA's Kenya population
projects in supporting the National Council on Population and Development has shown
the danger of a policy body overstepping its appropriate role and attempting to undertake
implementation. This results in numerous implementation problems and compromises
the mission of the policy body. Both the Government of Kenya and IDA have kept this
issue at the forefront of the discussions on the establishment of NACC and any project
support. During preparation of the project, assurances were obtained that the NACC
system has only policy and coordination functions.
Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
33. Earlier signs of commitment date back to the period 1993-1997 when the
Government of Kenya released HIV surveillance data and hosted the first National
Conference on HIV/AIDS. The Minister of Health declared that HIV/AIDS was a
national crisis, and government and international development partners initiated socio-
economic impact assessments. In 1994, the Government of Kenya borrowed US$40
million from IDA for prevention and mitigation programs. This step made Kenya's
investment of resources in HIV/AIDS prevention and care among the highest in the
developing world.
34. The national Parliamentary Sessional Paper on HIV/AIDS has set out Government
of Kenya policy on the epidemic and promotes a multi-sectoral response. The document
was intended to define national policy for the next 15 years. In June 1997, the document
was tabled in Parliament and later that year (September) approved as Sessional Paper No.
4 of 1997 on HIV/AIDS. The approval of the document was seen as ground-breaking in
the area of advocacy and policy development and provided for the establishment of a
National HIV/AIDS Control Council (NACC).
35. From 1997 onwards, the momentum generated by the debates on national policy
with regard to the HIV/AIDS epidemic led to greater national awareness of the problems.
During this period a number of Regional Forums were held and addressed by President
Moi and other political leaders. These led to renewed and vigorous political commitment
to reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS and in particular the declaration in November 1999



174
by the Government that HIV/AIDS is a national disaster. The formulation and
establishment of NACC immediately followed this declaration.
36. Budgetary provisions for the Fiscal Year starting July 1, 2000 indicate significant
support for the functioning of NACC, and the Government has initiated important steps
to mobilize additional resources from both national, bilateral, and multilateral partners.
Value added of Bank support in this project:
37. The Bank has taken the lead in the re-orientation of the response to the HIV/AlIDS
epidemic from a medical issue to a development one. The August 1999 launch in Nairobi
of the Bank's regional AIDS strategy, "Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in
Africa," was well received by both the Government and the private sector, as well as by
bilateral and multilateral donors. Through the Bank's regional AIDS Campaign Team for
Africa (ACTafrica) and UNAIDS, the Bank is well positioned to make regional issues
and experiences available to the project. In addition, the ongoing STI Project has been
re-worked since its Mid-Term Review to concentrate on the creation of an enabling
environment for the expansion of the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The proposed
project would build on the Bank's recognized achievements in this area.
Implementation support and supervision arrangements:
38. In view of the risks described in the next section, and the number of implementing
and coordinating partners, from the central to constituency level, implementation support
and supervision activities are envisaged to be intensive. On a regular basis, support and
supervision activities will be the responsibility of a Nairobi-based team comprising a
senior health specialist/task team leader, a financial management specialist, a social
development specialist, a procurement specialist, an operations analyst, an operations
officer, and a disbursement officer.
39. Back-up support in Washington would involve an operations analyst, an HIV/AIDS
specialist, two quality assurance specialists, a senior procurement specialist, and a senior
disbursement specialist. Given the intense nature of the implementation support and
supervision, no formal Mid-Term Review is envisaged for the project. The Task Team
will pay special attention to, and act upon, any need to formally restructure or "re-work"
the project.
40. In addition to the regular implementation support and supervision of the project,
NACC will organize formal semi-annual program reviews involving all those involved in
the partnership against HIV/AIDS in Kenya. These reviews will focus on the
achievements made and constraints faced in the implementation of the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, and on the work-program and budget for the subsequent year.



175
E. RIsKS
41. The project has a high risk of failure. But the potential returns-politically,
economically, and socially-from stemming or partly reversing the HIV/AIDS epidemic
in Kenya are so large that it is considered that this level of risk is very well justified. The
overall project is designed such that the allocations of funds to the main components have
been made with regard to the risks and likely returns associated with each component.
42. After a period of several years in which Kenya has been judged to have been both
politically and macro-economically fragile with governance issues looming large, the
country has now entered a more stable period. Overall Bank lending is projected to
expand rapidly. In this circumstance, the political and economic risks for the project are
judged to be moderate, especially given the genuinely very high priority that the
government is giving to addressing the HIV/AlDS epidemic.
43. Analysis of the implementation experience with the Bank's health portfolio in
Africa shows that the three most common areas of difficulty are monitoring and
evaluation, project management, and procurement. Much of these stem from problems of
low capacity, particularly in reaching communities.
44. This project design, through its emphasis on community involvement, active
project progress monitoring, and focused technical assistance in such areas as financial
management and procurement, seeks to address these issues. Nonetheless, the large
number of different organizations involved in the project-both community and
government agencies-remains a potential source of weakness as well as strength.
Further, despite the project inputs, risks associated with coordination and sub-project
quality and implementation capacity remain. Despite the attention given to financial
management and probity in the project design and the generally improved governance
situation in Kenya, substantial governance risks remain especially from political
interference.
45. The decentralized implementation mechanisms contribute to the high risks
associated with this project, including the potential for misuse of funds and related
fiduciary risks. By involving the communities and other groups in the decision-making
and monitoring processes, these same decentralized mechanisms are also factors that will
contribute to the successful implementation of the project. The risks are being addressed
in the project design through a) accountability to end users via participation in program
and project design and implementation, and via transparency rules and use of local
languages; b) use of an FMA for disbursement of the Community Initiative Account; c) a
random financial technical and process audit of all small executing entities; d) financial
audits of all large-scale executing entities; and e) integrated reports from executing
entities that link performance and financial reports.
46. There is a risk of delayed disbursements due to the need for implementing entities
to meet certain criteria before the flow of funds will start. These steps are required to
monitor the quality of project activities and to ensure that proper fiduciary safeguards are
in place, while not unnecessarily delaying project implementation. The government's
possible reluctance to support NGOs and CBOs could also be a contributing factor in



176
slow disbursements in the Community Initiative Account; NACC has expressed its
commitment to the use of NGOs and CBOs.
47. The Government and the country generally have now accepted that the epidemic
needs to be addressed urgently, and therefore the risk of backsliding or denial is judged to
be low. Finally, the high speed with which the project has been prepared itself generates
increased risks. While the project design and preparation have sought to mitigate many
of these risks, the realization of any combination of these risks would result in slow
disbursements and disappointing perfonnance.



177
Critical risks:
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Attachment 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The environment for an efficient           M         The NACC, bringing all partners together, will
partnership between public, private and              be pivotal in the decision making processes
civil society sectors deteriorates.                  within the context of the project.
Standard operating procedures on           H         Technical assistance will be used effectively in
financial management and procurement                 the form of a Financial Management Agency
will be poorly understood, accepted and              (Part C), a procurement specialist and
applied by the coordinating agencies.                intensive supervision.
Government, civil society, and religious   N         Representation by all parties will be solicited
leaders may be reluctant to support                  in the Project Steering Committee.
program efforts.                                     Consensus-building will be promoted among
GoK and its partners will be supported as a
continuous process.
The HIV/AIDS Community Account             M         The effectiveness of the contract between
established under the project may not                NACC and the Financial Management Agency
become operational in the present                    will be a condition for disbursement under Part
political environment.                               C of the project.
From Components to Outputs
Political commitment to address            N         This issue will also be addressed in broader
HIV/AIDS may decrease.                               discussions on Poverty Reduction Strategies
and include other stakeholders.
Legal mechanisms to protect vulnerable     H         Special attention will be given to the inclusion
populations may not be put in place.                 of human right issues and the protection of the
poor and vulnerable during the review of
annual work-programs and the joint annual
program reviews.
Basic logistical and physical facilities   M         Emergency procurement of basic logistical
may not be available at all levels of                requirements will be supported under the
coordination.                                        project.
Accountability and transparency of the     H         Joint reviews by NACC and all its partners
HIV/AIDS program management may be                   will provide for full accountability and
insufficient.                                        transparency.
Basic health and social services may not   M         The DARE project will be operational in
be available                                         parallel to the KADRE project.
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



178
F. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
Effectiveness conditions:
48. Conditions of Effectiveness are intended to be minimal in order to ensure a swift
progression from board presentation to effectiveness. Most outstanding issues were
addressed as conditions of appraisal or negotiations. The Conditions of Effectiveness
include:
(a) a Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and NACC. GoK will make available to NACC, as a grant, the proceeds of the
Credit under this agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NACC under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA;
(b) the Government has furnished a Project Implementation Plan, including a
finalized first year procurement plan in form and substance satisfactory to IDA;
(c) NACC has appointed the following key staff with qualifications and under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA: (i) Director, (ii) Procurement Manager, (iii)
Deputy Director, Finance and Administration, (iv) Finance Manager, (v) IEC Manager,
(vi) Private Sector/Civil Society Manager, (vii) Deputy Director, Technical Services and
(viii) Manager, Monitoring and Evaluation; and
(d) the Government has advised the Bank of authorized check signatories for the
accounts, including provision of specimen signatures.
Other:
49. A Condition of Disbursement of Credit proceeds under the Community Initiative
Account of the project includes NACC having employed, not later than January 31, 2001
employ a Financial Management Agency with qualifications and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA which shall be responsible for assisting NACC in the
implementation of the project as referred to in Attachment 2.
Financial covenants:
50. NACC shall prepare and submit to IDA, not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter a Project Management Report, each of which:
(i) describes the sources and applications of funds for the project both
cumulatively and for the period covered, and projected sources and
applications of funds for the project for the subsequent six-month period;
(ii) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between the
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and



179
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
G. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
E11. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation.
Z1. b) Not applicable.
02.  The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
L3.  The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic
and of satisfactory quality.
Z4.  The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section
F):
The final Project Implementation Plan: Condition of Effectiveness
Tlhe final first year Procurement Plan: Condition of Effectiveness
H. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
ZI.  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L12.  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The
project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Albertus Voetberg        Dzingai Mutumbuka       Harold E. Wackman
Team Leader              Sector Manager          Country Director



180
Attachment 1. Project Design Summary
Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy        Long-Term Program Indicators:              Program Reports:                  (From Goal to Mission)
(CAS) Goal:                                       * By 2003, HIV prevalence will be reduced   * National HIV/AIDS surveillance  *   Social and cultural behavior chag
from 14 percent to 13 percent asnong      reports, mnidterm review, and end  improves throughout the life of the
young people (I15-24 years).               of project evaluation.            project
To mitigate the social and economic impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya.
By 2004, HIV/AIDS prevalence among    *   National HIV/AIDS surveillance
adults (1549 years) will remain below 14  reports, mnidterm review, and end
percent.                                   of project evaluation.
Project Development Objective:                    Outcome/Impact Indicators:                 Project Reports:                   (From Purpose to Goal)
*   By 2003, the proportion of adults (15-49                                  *   Poverty reduction efforts continue
To intensify the achievement of the multi-sectoral  years) possessing accurate knowledge of  *   Kenya Demographic and Health       throughout the life of the project.
HIV/AIDS primary targets in the National HIV/ AIDS  means of preventing HIV infection will       Survey (KDHS) data
Strategic Plan with the full participation of communities.   increase.
Baseline (KDHS, 1999): 90 percent                                         *   Economic situation will improve during
Target (KDHS, 2003):  100 percent                                             project life.
*   Intensified prograrn of HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support will be
*   By 2003, the median age of first sex   *   Kenya Demographic and Health       socially and culturally acceptable at
among young women (15-24 years) will         Survey (KDHS) data                 community level.
increase.
Baseline (KDHS, 1999): 12 years
Target (KDHS, 2003):  14 years
*   Reports from the Ministry of
*   By 2004, HIV/AIDS curricula will be        Education and other Ministries
integrated and examinable in an increasing
number of primary and secondary schools,
and various post-graduate institutions.
Baseline: less than I percent
Target:  75 percent



181
Output from each component:                      Key Performance Indicators:                 Project Reports:                (From Outputs to Objective):
*   By 2004, the number of                  *   Ministry financial and budget  *   Enabling environment for effective
i. The quality and accessibility of multi-sectoral   ministries/departments with a budget line   reports                         partnership between public, private and
HIV/AIDS educational curricula and IEC material      item for HIV/AIDS-related programs will                                     civil society sectors continues.
improved.                                            increase.
Baseline: One
Target 22
2. AIDS program management institutions (NACC,   *   Disbursements will rise to 25 percent by the   *   Disbursement expenditure  *   Standard operating procedures on
PACC, DACC, CACC, and ACUs) established with         end of Year 1, 40 percent by the end of Year  retums by implementing        finances and procurement will be
enhanced coordinating capacity and accountability.   2,70 percent by the end of Year 3, and 100  agencies                        understood, accepted and applied by
percent by end of Year 4 of project                                         coordinating agencies.
implementation.
*   Number of program mnanagement institutions  *   Project audit report.
submitting acceptable accounting and
expenditure reports will increase between
Year 2 and Year 4 of project implementation.



182
3a. Capacity and funding in the delivery of prevention,   *   Credit Disbursement Rate to finance local  *   NACC Annual Progress  *   Communities and institutions in each
care and support services by PLWHA, NGOs, CBOs,    initiatives will increase to 10 percent, 30   Report.                         area are willing to actively participate
private sector, civil society, and research institutions  percent, 65 percent and 100 percent by 1", 2nd,                       and support the overall HIV/AIDS
expanded at the community level.                  3rd and 4h year of project implementation,                                     prevention, care and support program
respectively.
*   Proportion of constituencies submitting at  *   Annual reports submitted by
least three proposals to the Community      NACC, PACCs, DACCs, and
Initiative Account will increase between    CACCs.
Year 2 and 4 of project implementation.
*   Number of implementing organizations    *   Project audit report
applying acceptable accounting and reporting                            *   HIV/AIDS Community Initiative
systems will increase between Year 2 and                                    Account established under the project
Year 4 of project implementation.                                           will be operational under the present
political environment.
*   Proportion of households receiving      *   Independent assessment
assistance in caring for chronically ill adults  reports on the level of
and/or orphans will increase by Year 4 of   HIV/AIDS care and support
programn implementation.                    services available in a
Baseline: Less than 10 percent            representative sample of
Target:  50 percent                       communities.
*   The number of peer educators/counselors in   *   NACC/Ministry of Health
the 210 constituencies will increase by 30  reports                     *   Governmental, civil society, and
percent by the end of Year 1, 50 percent by                                 religious leaders will support program
the end of Year 2, 70 percent by the end of                                 efforts
Year 3, and 90 percent by.the end of Year 4
of project implementation.
*   The number of people participating in   *  NACC/Ministry of Health
voluntary counseling and testing services for  reports
HIV/AIDS will increase by 30 percent by the
end of Year 1; 50 percent by the end of Year
2; 60 percent by the end of Year 3; and 70
percent by the end of Year 4.
.to pilot new HIV/AIDS technologies and   *   By 2004, the number of feasibility studies  *   Independent assessment
3b. Flexibility                                      conducted on the utilization of new         reports on the studies
services increased.                                  HIV/AIDS technologies and services will     conducted.
increase.                               *   Reports on PTCT pilot studies



183
Projects Components & Activities:                  Inputs (budget for each component):           Monitoring:                       (From Components to Outputs):
US$ 10.3 million                              * Proportion of Ministry staff   *   Political commitment to address
1.  The quality and accessibility of multi-                                                         receiving AIDS training            HIV/AIDS remains strong.
sectoral HlV/AIDS educational curricula
and IEC material improved.                                                                   * Project progress reports        * Legal mechanisms will be in place to
Activities to include:                                                                           * Annual Surveys & Audits            protect vulnerable populations.
*   Basic logistical and physical facilities
1.1 Design, produce, disseminate and implement                                                                                         exist at all needed levels of
gender and culturally sensitive educational                                                                                        coordination.
curricula and IEC materials.
1.2 Train and sensitize target groups on the use of
HIV/AIDS educational curricula and IEC materials.
1.3 Provide education, care, and support to AIDS
orphans and other children in difficult
circumstances.
1.4 Implement HIV/AIDS prevention services,
including IEC campaigns focusing on behavior
modeling and condom promotion.
1.5 Expand condom distribution system.
1.6 Formulate/strengthen policies and interventions
addressing anti-discriminatory and gender-specific
issues, in addition to developing interventions for
populations at increased risk of HIV infection.



184
2.  AIDS program management institutions (NACC,    US$ 12.1 million                           * Project progress reports       *   Accountability and transparency will be
PACC, DACC, CACC, and ACUs) established                                                                                        enforced.
with enhanced coordinating capacity and                                                   *  NACC Annual Progress
accountability.                                                                               Reports
Activities to include:                                                                        *   Annual Surveys & Audits
2.1 Develop and disseminate guidelines for program
management within NACC, PACCs, DACCs,
CACCs, ACUs, and also for coordinating and
linking with relevant organizations at all levels.
2.2 Create a mechanism within NACC for
reviewing/approving work plans submitted by
implementing organizations
2.3 Provide orientation and training for core staff of
NACC and its related structures within three
months of employment.
2.4 Develop, disseminate, and implement performance
benchmarks and service standards for NACC and
all implementing agencies of the national
HIV/AIDS program.
2.5 Create a critical mass of HIV/AIDS raster trainers
(TOTs) in order to develop cascade training teams
at all levels.
2.6 Strengthen program management, financial
systems, accountability, planning, budgeting, and
MIS at NACC and its related structures by the end
of Year I of program implementation.
2.7 Provide prevention, care, and support services to
staff, including the timely payment of benefits to
those infected and affected by HIV/AJDS.



185
2.8 Assist commnunity mobilization efforts with respect
to program plarming and accessing resources, with
particular focus on supporting gender-specific
programs and programs for other groups at
increased risk of HIV infection.
2.9 Formulate policy and programs which promote
human rights and strengthen linkages between
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support services.
2.10 Coordinate mass media and other media campaigns
focusing on enhanced HIV/AIDS-related
knowledge, skills, attitudes, and behavior.
2.11 Prepare and submit quarterly budgets and quarterly
progress monitoring reports for all HIV/AIDS
interventions from community-level to the
national-level.



186
3a. Capacity and funding in the delivery of prevention,  US$ 30.0 million                       * Project progress reports       *  Conununity based groups will initiate
care and support services by PLWHA, NGOs,                                                                                       and/or expand programs for supporting
CBOs, private sector, civil society, and research                                                                               vulnerable populations.
institutions expanded at the commnunity level.
*   Annual Surveys & Audits      *   Basic health and social services will be
Activities to include:                                                                                                               available.
3a.1 CACCs to coordinate NGOs, CBOs, private sector
organizations, and civil society organizations at
community level.
3a.2 NGOs to increase capacity of the CBOs, private
sector organizations and civil society organizations
at all levels for planning, prioritizing, drawing
work plans and budgets for HIV/AIDS prevention,
care and support services
3a3 CBOs, private sector, and civil society organizations
to provide and deliver care and support services to
those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS.
3a4 Establish voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
centers
3a5 Establish support groups for people living with
HIV/AlDS (PLWHA).
3a.6 Support vulnerable populations, including orphans
and widows;
3a.7 Support training activities for NGOs and CBOs.
3a.8 Support the development and implementation of
small and micro enterprises for social support
groups for those both infected and affected by
HIV/AIDS.



187
3b. Flexibility to pilot new HIV/AIDS technologies and
services will increase.
Activities to inchude:
3b. 1 Research, review, develop and implement
HIV/AIDS new technologies and services in
selected sites within communities.
3b.2 Phased introduction of Parent to Child
Transmission (PTCT) prevention services in
communities.



188
Attachment 2. Project Description
Project components:
Part A: Support to line ministries (US$10.3 million):
The purpose of this component is to initiate, facilitate, and support the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS-
related activities into all line ministries. Ministries will start activities in a phased manner through the project
period. The project will support the building of capacity within the ministries and the implemerntation of their
work-programs. The capacity-building aspects are likely to be particularly relevant for those sectors not.
previously considered to have a direct role in combating HIV/AIDS.
Work-programs of implementing ACUs within line ministries will be reviewed and approved by their
ministry's senior management and NACC, and thereafter they will be eligible for credit financing. While the
different units will have freedom to develop work-programs that meet the needs of their respective ministries
and sectors, guidelines and training will be provided to ensure that there is broad participation in the
formulation of the work-programs and that the applicable range of issues is taken into account. While the
project seeks to be flexible, there will be restrictions placed on what will be eligible for credit financing. For
example, expenditures that are expected to be ineligible for credit financing under the work-programs include:
a) vehicles; b) civil works of any size; and c) overseas training. Any training expenditures and purchases of
equipment or commodities will be closely scrutinized by NACC to ensure consistency with the project's
development objectives.
The Government has elaborated an approach (see Figure 3) for sector-specific responses to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic and the work-programs of the ACUs will follow this approach. The capacity-building aspects to be
supported under this component are reflected in Steps 1 to 4, and Step 5 will be reflected in the work-program
once the sector-specific response has been defined. Guidelines have been developed to assist ministries in
formulating a sector-specific response and will be made available.
ACUs will be expected to address, among other issues, the manner in which HIV/AIDS has affected the
quality and quantity of available services, the ability to supply the required services, the organization of the
sector, the role of service providers, human resources policy and management practices, the planning and
management of sector resources, the availability of public and private resources for the sector, and also financial
support to the sector provided by both the Government of Kenya and the donor community.



189
Figure 3
Flow chart of steps to develop a sector-specific response to HIV/AIDS:
STEP 1
Understanding HIV/AIDS impacts
in wider society and the role of sector,
e.g., govemment ministry
STEP 2
Identify internal impacts
within the sector, or
ministry/department
STEP 3
Identify external
impacts, which
influence sector, or
ministry functions
STEP 4
Identify appropriate action responses
* Responses in areas of internal
impact
* Responses in areas of external
impact
OUTPUT
A sector-specific impact
assessment and response
to HIV/AIDS



190
While internal impacts will differ among sectors, many issues will be common across sectors. For the
first year of project implementation, nine ministries are participating in the project and have formulated their
activities within the following three broad categories and general areas of activity:
* Capacity Building
- ACU administrative costs (standard package)
- Training of trainers (TOT)
- Training of target populations
* Prevention, Care, and Support Services
- IEC campaigns focusing on behavior modeling
- Commissioning and distribution of IEC materials
- Distribution of condoms within ministry offices at national, provincial, and district levels
- Distribution to all staff of information regarding available benefits
- Referral to health and social services
* Planning and Policy
- Conduct of impact assessments within the ministry itself, in addition to target populations
- Policy and procedures
  Review of staff and dependent benefits with respect to long-term needs posed by
HIIV/AIDS
  Establishment and implementation of guidelines for timely disbursement of
benefits to staff and dependents
*  Strengthening the implementation of policies regarding discrimination and the
protection of human rights for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)
  Review and strengthening of gender-specific policies and programs affecting both
ministry staff and populations served
These issues will involve extensive collaboration with NACC, the umbrella agency for the ACUs.
Equally important is the need for the ACUs to build meaningful operating relationships with counterparts at the
national, provincial, and district levels. Government, through ACUs, will play a leadership role in policy
direction, institutional development, resource mobilization, and advocacy. In order to achieve maximum
impact, the entire public sector will be mobilized through a process of mainstreaming HIV/AIDS-related
activities into the core functions of every sector.
The core functions include the budget and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) process. It is
essential that the budgets for the core services include appropriate allocations to achieve the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan objectives. This will need the support of all concerned at all levels. With the support
provided through the project, HIV/AIDS-related topics will be integrated into the training and induction
programs of public servants in all sectors and at the workplace in order to support the achievement of the
desired changes in both individual and institutional behavior and decision-making processes.
Part B: Coordination of program and project activities by NACC and its decentralized entities (US$12.1
million):
This component will focus on the institutional strengthening of NACC and related entities (PACCs,
DACCs, and CACCs) and the activities by these institutions to co-ordinate the national program as well as the
project activities. Given that NACC and related structures are newly established, the credit, which supports a



191
significant part of this program, will support the Government of Kenya in equipping these entities so that they
can fulfill their mission. The component will also support activities that are to be coordinated centrally by
NACC, such as training workshops for PACCs, DACCs, CACCs, various levels of Government personnel, and
other stakeholders, and national information campaigns. This will also include technical assistance to support
NACC in developing guidelines, strengthening capacity, and other activities necessary to address the sector
issues detailed above.
A challenging task will be strengthening NACC's coordinating ability to monitor and ascertain that the
activities taking place in the field are consistent with the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, working closely
with the line ministries and other stakeholders. The project will support this effort both at the national level
through NACC and at the local level through the PACCs, DACCs, and CACCs.
NACC management will be responsible for the overall monitoring of progress against the Strategic Plan.
This will require the stakeholders and implementing partners to take responsibility for data gathering at the
micro level. The mechanism for conducting joint monitoring activities will include regular review meetings and
reports. The budget required for these monitoring and review responsibilities will be supported under the
project, both directly as well as through the provision of consultant services.
Also important is the need to publicize widely to the population of Kenya and stakeholders the role and
responsibilities of NACC and the relationship with and responsibilities of the ACUs and other organs that have
been established under NACC. The project will support public information activities for this purpose.
A modest part of the credit under this component will be applied toward technical assistance for the
financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and external auditing of an HIV/AIDS Community Initiative
Account (see Part C).
Part C: Support to implementation of initiatives from civil society, private sector, and research
institutions (US$30.0 million):
For the specific purpose of involving civil society organizations, the private sector, and research
institutions in the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and making financial resources under the
project available to these organizations, NACC will establish an HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account.
Allocations of resources among the various organizations underline the strong priority that will be given to
community- driven local initiatives. Initiatives with national or regional coverage, private sector activities, and
research initiatives will only receive modest support.
The HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account will contribute to the improvement of the welfare of
communities by increasing their access to financial and human resources to prevent further spread of HIV and
to address the impact of the epidemic on individuals and households. The sub-projects will be identified,
prepared, implemented, managed, and maintained by beneficiary communities.
The responsibility for operation and maintenance of the sub-projects will depend on the nature of the sub-
project, but is likely to be that of the community and supporting NGOs/CBOs and religious organizations.
The HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account will respond to demands for sub-projects that aim to
address the prevention of HIV infection or the problems related to the impact of HIV/AIDS on those infected or
affected. These may include:



192
*  activities aimed at behavior modeling or behavior change. Examples include peer programs, formal and
informal education programs for out-of-school children, and condom promotion;
*  social support to those affected by HIV/AIDS, including orphans. Examples of assistance to orphans
include psychosocial support, school fees, school uniforms, health care, food, and shelter;
*  training programs for community volunteers and support to training for counselors and home based care-
givers, procurement of supplies for home-based care such as gloves and essential drugs;
*  support to organizations of people who are HIV positive or affected by the epidemic, seed funding to
start income-generating activities and establish patient support centers.
Some groups of PLWHA have formed themselves into HIV/AIDS support organizations. Most of these
groups are urban-based. Attempts will be made to create a conducive environment at district and community
levels to enable formation of more such groups to support PLWHA at these levels. Formation of these groups is
important because they enhance the profile and visibility of PLWHA and help to reduce the stigma directed at
the infected and affected. The Kenya Legal and Ethical Network on H1V/AIDS (KELIN) and the Attorney
General's office will collaborate to ensure protection of PLWHA against discrimination.
There are over 450 NGOs/CBOs dealing with HIV/AIDS in Kenya. These NGOs have specific strengths
in resource mobilization both nationally and internationally. It is intended that NACC will continue to
capitalize on existing infrastructure and strengths to increase the coverage and quality of service provision.
There is, however, a need to enhance the capacities of these NGOs/CBOs to enable them to perform better and
to scale up some of the best practices in care and support especially at district and comrnmunity levels.
Support will also be given to training of community members in appropriate service delivery, such as
home-based care and counseling. These capacity-building programs will be on a demand-led basis and
technically qualified persons hired to deliver the program. The grant program will also support community-
based capacity-building and training programs. These will be aimed at enhancing the capacity of communities
to plan and manage their own HIV/AIDS-related programs.
All 68 districts in Kenya will be eligible for support through the H1V/AIDS Community Initiative
Account. NACC will, however, allocate funds on an annual basis and according to an agreed formula to all
districts. Initially, these indicative planning figures are likely to be based on population only. Every six months
an evaluation will be made of the distribution of the submitted proposals, in terms of their geography and
content, and the actual expenditures. Annual allocations to districts, or constituencies, that do not submit or
process sub-project proposals or that incur significant delays in their expenditures will be reviewed and re-
directed to better performing geographic areas. In such circumstances the CACC, DACC, and PACC involved
will be informed of such re-allocation and NACC may invite Members of Parliament, DACCs, CACCs, or
NGOs to intervene and make a special effort to correct the situation.
Projects will be identified following an examination of HIV/AIDS-related problems by communities
themselves. The "community" includes all those who are interested and involved in the project, who are prepared
to participate, and who will benefit from the services provided by the project. Proposed projects should present
solutions to identified priority problems and show evidence of widespread support within the community. The
community will be encouraged to contribute to the total costs of the sub-project in cash or in kind.



193
The role of the community is to initiate the project, implement and manage the project, and complete and
maintain the project. The role of the District AIDS Control Coordinator will be to provide infornation, advise
communities on all aspects of the project cycle, and assist in the facilitation of a participatory decision-making
process.
Applications made on standard application forms will be submitted to the CACCs. Applications are
appraised according to the following agreed criteria:
*  Whether the activities in the project proposal comply with the priorities formulated in the National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan;
*  Whether there is evidence that the project represents a community priority need, that the community is
committed to the projects, and that they will contribute to the project;
*  Whether the benefits accrue to the poor, vulnerable, and those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS;
* Whether the project costs are reasonable, and whether its size and complexity are within the capacity of
the community.
The review and approval process will follow a standard format and is described in the Manual of
Procedures for the HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account. This manual will be reviewed and further
developed by the Government, NACC, and its partners during the period prior to effectiveness of the credit.
Concerning support to research initiatives, it is anticipated that studies related to parent-to-child
transmission, women-controlled methods for HIV and STI prevention such as microbicides, and impact studies
will be supported. NACC will have the responsibility to review such proposals and determine whether they
comply with research priorities as reflected in the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.



194
Attachment 3. Project Costs
Component          Indicative     % of        Bank-    % of Total
Costs      Total      Financing      Bank
(US$M)                  (US$M)    Financing
Part A (support to line         10.3          20          9.5          19
ministries).
Part B (support to NACC)        12.1          23         10.5          21
Part C (Community               30.0          57         30.0          60
Initiative Account)
Total Project Costs     52.4          100        50.0          100
Total Financing Required      52.4         100         50.0
Project Cost by Category          Local      Foreign        Total
US$ million  US$ million   US$ million
Equipment                                 0.5         0.9           1.4
IEC Materials                             6.8          -            6.8
Vehicles                                  0.1         0.3           0.4
Training                                  1.8          -            1.8
International Technical Assistance        0.3         1.5           1.8
Local Technical Assistance                3.6          -            3.6
Community Initiative Account             30.0                      30.0
Unallocated                               0.8                       0.8
Total Investment Costs                   43.9         2.6          46.5
Recurrent Costs
Staff Salaries                         0.3           -           0.3
Overhead, Operations, and              1.6                       1.6
Maintenance Costs
Total Recurrent Costs                     1.9          -            1.9
Total Baseline Costs                     45.8         2.6          48.5
Physical Contingencies                 1.6          0.3          1.9
Price Contingencies                    2.0          0.1          2.1
Total Project Costs                      49.4         3.0           52.4
An annual review of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) will be carried out three months prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year.



195
Attachment 4. Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
The overall project:
The Permanent Secretary to the Office of the President, in charge of Provincial Administration, will be
the overall accounting officer for resources made available to the Office of the President/NACC for the
implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and for all project resources. Coordination of
activities and accounting responsibilities for all three parts of the project will be delegated to NACC.
A Project Oversight Committee will be established, comprised of the Permanent Secretary, Secretary to
the Cabinet and Head of Public Service (chair); the Accounting Officer, Office of the President; a representative
of the Ministry of Finance and Planning; the Chairman of NACC; a representative of the private sector; and a
representative of the NGOs/religious organizations. This committee will review annual progress reports, annual
work-programs, and, when necessary, address major constraints in project implementation. Progress reports
and work-programns will subsequently be presented to NACC for approval. The Chairman of NACC will
organize the Project Oversight Committee meetings, to be convened at least twice a year and to be chaired by
the Permanent Secretary, Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of Public Service.
Overall project coordination will be the responsibility of the Secretariat of NACC under the direction of
its Chief Executive Officer, the Director of NACC. The Secretariat will assume the implementation, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation responsibilities for the project. It will organize semi-annual Joint
Reviews to report on work-program achievements and on all financial matters concerning the project, as part of
the overall HIV/AIDS strategy implementation. In addition, it will present the work-program for the next fiscal
year to all partners after it has been endorsed by the Project Oversight Committee and approved by NACC. The
administrative hierarchy of the project and program is represented in Figure 4.
Part A: The line ministries:
The Accounting Officer of each implementing ministry will ensure that program and project activities are
aimed at mitigating the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on her/his sector and that prevention activities are
integrated into its programs. She/he will review annual work-programs and budgets, as elaborated by the ACU
in her/his ministry, and ensure that the use of project resources is applied to the intended purposes. In addition,
as a member of the Board of NACC, she/he will review and where appropriate approve the overall project
work-program of NACC and the project.
The A CU, under the leadership of the Senior Assistant Director, will coordinate the implementation of
project activities at the level of the individual ministry. The ACU will be responsible for the elaboration of
annual work-programs and budgets, for the financial management of project resources, and for the monitoring
and evaluation of project activities. Annual work-programs and budgets will be submitted to the Permanent
Secretary for approval, and consequently to the Secretariat of NACC in order to obtain financial support from
project resources.



196
Figure 4
|Otrice of the President|
|(Oversight Committee)|
NACCs     -       INs
Line MinistMMes  |                                               M
(AC Us)        - -- -- -- - -- -- - - - - - -_ at
lp lt)                 Community projects'
l irect inecoitomuite(eefcfinance mgmt agency
--- - ------------- Ce acemi                     (including a Procurement
TheAC wilepotnrojctpr srir   to tSpecialist)
_________________________- FDAACCs               _J
-------- -------- -------   CACCs                 ---           NGOsl
L   4    ~CBOs
Mobilize toon and
Interv ntons
(proectr                                       Mobol   zacon  Mobili   n and Interventiorn  (projects)
Direct interacfion with communities (beneficianes)
---- Consultative interaction vith implementing agencies to reach communities
the ACU will report on project progress primarily to the Accounting Of ficer of the parent line ministry
wvith copies to the Permanent Secretary in charge of Provincial Administration, Of fice of the President, and the
Director of the NACC Secretariat. The ACU will account and submit financial reports primarily to the
Accounting Officer, Office of the President, copied to the Accounting Officer of the line ministry and the
Director of NACC.
Part B: Program coordination by the NACC and its decentralized entities:
The Office of the President, under the leadership of the Permanent Secretary, will be responsible for the
overall program and project performance and ensure consistency between project activities and national policy.
It will ensure the timely transfer of project resources to NACC and to the line ministries, and be responsible for
the timely accounting for these resources.
NA CC will review and approve annual work-programs for the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS
Strategic Plan and, as part thereof, the project. NACC will ensure consistency in the approaches adopted by all
implementing agencies concerning HIV prevention and mitigation of the impact of the epidemic.



197
The Chairman of NA CC will convene Council meetings at least twice a year in order to review annual
progress reports and to submit consolidated annual work-programs and budgets for approval.
The Secretariat of NACC, under the leadership of the Director, will be responsible for the coordination of
program and project activities. The Secretariat will elaborate its own annual work-programs and budgets,
consolidate the work-programs of the various implementing line ministries, and coordinate common activities
such as training, EEC, procurement, and printing of EEC material. It will organize semi-annual Joint Reviews
for all major stakeholders to report on program and project achievements. In addition, the Secretariat will
establish a Technical Committee to review the proposals submitted with request for funding as described under
Part C. Finally, the Secretariat will assist line ministries with the conduct of impact assessments and with the
elaboration of sectoral work-programs and budgets. The Secretariat will account to the Permanent Secretary in
charge of Provincial Administration, Office of the President.
The PACCs will be responsible for the coordination of project activities at the provincial level, for the
support to DACCs, for the monitoring of all HIV/AIDS activities at the provincial level, and for the review and
approval of proposals, within the prescribed guidelines (see below). The PACC will report to the Secretariat of
NACC.
The DACCs will coordinate HlV/AIDS activities at the district level. The DACCs will review and
approve proposals within the prescribed guidelines (see below). The DACCs will report to the PACC.
The CACCs will coordinate HIV/AIDS activities at the constituency level. The CACCs will be
responsible for the social mobilization in favor of an intensified response to the epidemic. They will review
proposals submitted with requests for funding and advise the DACC accordingly
Part C: The HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account:
NACC, through its Secretariat, will be responsible for the management of an HIV/AIDS Community
Initiative Account, the financial management, monitoring, and evaluation functions of which will be contracted
to an independent agency. The Secretariat will monitor the execution of the contract, and the performance of
the agency will be reviewed during the regular external audit of NACC. The agency will also provide a
procurement specialist for the first year of the project to work closely with the procurement officer of NACC.
The Deputy Director (Technical Services) of NACC, together with the Private Sector/Civil Society
Manager, the Research and Development Manager, the Finance Manager of NACC, and five expert
independent members will constitute a Technical Committee that will have the responsibility to review the
larger proposals (see below) submitted with requests for funding and advise the Director of NACC accordingly.



198
Attachment 5. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation results will be used as important benchmarks to indicate whether or not the
project targets have been achieved. The results of such monitoring and evaluation will guide adjustmnents and
modifications during the project implementation period. The Project Design Summary and Logical Framework
will form the basis of designing and administering the monitoring and evaluation tools. The guiding document
containing targets to be achieved is the Government's HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan for the period 2000-2003.
Project implementation monitoring:
The implementation of project activities will be monitored by the NACC Secretariat through quarterly
project management reports, providing insight into physical progress against work-programs, disbursement
figures, and projections for the next quarter. In addition, the agreed format for the technical reports allows for
the regular evaluation of geographic coverage of project activities and disbursements (Part C) and the analysis
of project activities by objective (see Attachment 1) and expenditure categories.
For monitoring purposes, the NACC Secretariat will be responsible for the consolidation of quarterly
financial reports, by component, submitted by the line ministries for Part A, by the FMA for Part C, and
elaborated by the Secretariat itself for Part B. Quarterly technical reports will be submitted to the NACC
Secretariat by the line ministries (for Part A) and the NACC structures at the various levels (Part B and Part C).
This component of the monitoring process is specific for the project and relates to activities financed and
disbursements effected through the project. Indicators include:
1 .  The percentage of Credit Proceeds under Part C disbursed per constituency, district, and province;
2.  The number of line ministries that have sensitized their staff on the facts about HIV/AIDS;
3.  The number of public sector training institutions that have integrated HIV/AIDS issues in their
curriculum;
4.  The percentage of CACCs/DACCs/PACCs having submitted approved proposals under Part C;
5.  The proportion of proposals under Part C that focus on prevention, and care and support, respectively.



199
Process monitoring:
Indications of behavior change, and access to care and support, would reflect the progress against
specified outcomes of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan to which the project contributes. Indicators for
this purpose include:
1.  the percentage of districts and constituencies that have functional voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
centers;
2.  knowledge of parent-to-child transmission and ways to prevent it;
3.  the percentage of districts and constituencies that have functional patient support centers;
4.  the extent to which HIV/AIDS issues are examinable subjects in a) primary schools; b) secondary schools;
and c) other training institutions;
5.  the percentage of districts and constituencies with active programs to support orphans;
6.  as in 5. above for widows;
7.  VCT utilization rates;
8.  the percentage of ministries with budget line items for HIV/AIDS-related programs.
The NACC Secretariat will establish a computerized database for the purpose of documenting and
monitoring these indicators. The project will assist in the installation and functioning of this database.
Impact monitoring:
The impact of the national response to the epidemic will be reflected in a broad range of indicators,
including:
1.  prevalence rates of HIV infection, by age group and gender;
2.   median age at first sex;
3.  reported condom use at last sex with non-regular partner;
4.   STI incidence/prevalence;
5.   primary school enrollment and completion rates among orphans;
6.  the number of non-regular sexual partners during a defined period, by marital status, age group, and
gender.
The collection of these indicators will be the responsibility of the various implementing agencies and will
be measured through a variety of instruments, including the Demographic and Health Survey of 2003. The
Ministry of Health collects monthly HIV/AIDS prevalence data from 22 sentinel surveillance sites (13 urban
and nine rural). This existing surveillance system of HIV prevalence will be improved to include behavioral
indicators ("second-generation surveillance") with the assistance of cooperating partners.
Trends in the above-mentioned indicators will be attributed to the collective efforts of the partnership
against HIV/AIDS in Kenya, and to the project as part thereof.



200
Attachment 6. Financial Management, Procurement and
Disbursement Arrangements
Financial management:
The project will have an adequate financial management system. Appropriate safeguards are included in
the design of the financial management system; these safeguards include the engagement of a financial
management firm to manage the HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account, centralized accounting
responsibility in NACC, and a close link between and analysis of financial and physical progress reports.
The financial management mechanisms of the project are based on the understanding that:
*  All the project funds will initially be budgeted for under the Office of the President-National AIDS
Control Council (OP-NACC). The OP-NACC will transfer funds to implementing line ministries
through issuance of Authorities to Incur Expenditure (AlEs).
e  Funds for the HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account will be managed and disbursed by a private
Financial Management Agent (FMA) under contract with NACC.
- NACC, PACCs, DACCs, and CACCs will be responsible for coordinating activities including review
and approval of work-programs, but will not be involved in the implementation.
Operation of a project special bank account:
Disbursement of project funds will flow from the IDA Credit account to a Special Account in a
commercial bank on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs). The Government of Kenya, through the
Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), will open and operate the Special Account under instructions from the Treasury,
which is responsible for ensuring that all loans to the Government of Kenya are properly accounted for.
The initial deposit amount will be based on the estimated project budget and cash forecast for the first six
months. Subsequent replenishments of the Special Account will be based on project budget and cash forecast
for the following quarter and the submission of PMRs for the preceding quarter. PMRs will broadly comprise:
i. Physical progress report;
ii. Procurement progress report;
iii. Financial report.
The PMRs will be subjected to review by the World Bank Task Team members for their relevant areas of
specialization. If the PMRs are acceptable, and the project budget and cash forecast for the following quarter
are satisfactory, credit proceeds will be used to replenish the Special Account for the value of the expenditure
projections and cash needs. The flow of funds, request for funds, progress reports, and work-programs and
budgets are further elaborated in the Project Implementation Plan.



201
Flow of funds:
Funds from the NACC-designated project bank account will flow directly to:
*  Project accounts for the ACUs of central ministries and to a common account at the district level for
their units in each district;
*  NACC operating project bank account for coordinating activities implemented by NACC, PACCs,
DACCs, and CACCs;
*  HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account project bank account.
An initial advance equivalent to the approved budget for the first two quarters will be released to the
respective project bank accounts. Subsequent quarterly replenishments of the accounts will be made after the
respective bodies have submitted to the OP-NACC certified physical progress reports and Statements of
Expenditure (for the previous quarter), analyzed by project components/activities and DCA Categories of
Expenditure. The funds will be released on the basis of the following quarter's approved budget and cash flow
projection.
Accounting for funds released to NACC for coordinating activities:
The NACC operating project bank account will be credited with funds for coordinating activities
undertaken by NACC, PACCs, DACCs, and CACCs. DACCs will operate project bank accounts in
commercial banks and make payments to or on behalf of the PACC and CACCs in the district. The initial flow
to the DACC project bank account will be an advance equivalent to the approved budget for the first quarter for
the PACC, DACC and CACCs in the district.
NACC will document appropriate accounting and reporting procedures to be observed at the provincial,
district, and constituency levels and provide training to the relevant staff. The Finance Officer at the DACC
will be responsible for maintaining separate accounting for the PACC, DACC, and each CACC in the district.
He will ensure that the accounting records at the DACC Secretariat clearly analyze data by each level, and
payment vouchers together with supporting documents for each level are filed separately. NACC's internal
audit unit will conduct regular but random visits to verify operations and accounts records at the DACC level.
Accounting for funds released to implementing ministries:
The implementing line ministries will operate project accounts in accordance with Treasury Circular No. 3
of 2000. One HIV/AIDS district project account will be opened and operated in each district, which will serve
the decentralized entities of the ACUs supported under the project. This will save both on administrative costs
and bank charges. The cheque signatories for the account will include two representatives of the ministries'
ACUs, who should also be members of the DACC, and the district accountant.
The decentralized entity of each ACU will maintain a memorandum cash-book to monitor payments made
to it or on its behalf from the Joint Account. The main project cash-book will be maintained by the district
accountant and will be analyzed by the ministry, both on the receipts and payments side, to facilitate separate
accounting for each ministry for reporting purposes.



202
Ministries will issue requisitions for funds to the OP-NACC clearly showing requirements for the
ministry's ACU and include requirements for each of the provinces and districts. The OP-NACC will issue
AlEs and transfer funds directly to the ministries' project accounts and the HIV/AIDS district joint project
accounts. They will prepare expenditure reports at the district level (expenditure statements and cash movement
and balances) and ensure they are reviewed and certified by the district accountant and AIE holder. These,
together with progress reports certified by the AIE holder, will be forwarded to the respective ministry
headquarters. The bank reconciliation and statement for the HIV/AIDS district project bank account will be
forwarded to the OP-NACC on a quarterly basis.
The ministries will consolidate the expenditure statements, analyze them by implementing Units, and
forward them to the OP. The respective Accounting Officers of the line ministries will assign an accountant in
the ministry the responsibility for consolidation and accounting for the entire ministry's expenditures under the
project.
AlEs will be issued and project bank accounts replenished only after the implementing ACUs have
accounted for the previous period's disbursements. The replenishments will be based on the following quarter's
approved budget and projected cash needs.
Accounting for funds released to the HIV/AIDS community initiative account:
Funds for implementing activities other than those conducted by line ministries will be released through
the NACC HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account. NACC will outsource the financial management of the
account to a reputable FMA, which will be responsible for releasing funds to the implementing CBOs and
NGOs, and ensuring that the funds disbursed to communities for approved activities are properly and fully
accounted for. NACC will have the ultimate responsibility for approval of all work-programs and budgets for
activities to be funded through the HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account. However, detailed review and
approval will be delegated to lower levels as shown on the table below:



203
Approval of work-programs and budgets for national, regional, local, and private initiatives:
Initiative           Cate-  Proposal Value     Detailed       To Be
Gory     In US $        Review and      Approved
Approval By    Within
l. Local Initiatives    1.1   Up-to 5,000      CACC              2 weeks
1.2   From 5,001 to    DACC             2 weeks
15,000
1.3   From 15,001 to   PACC             3 weeks
25,000
1.4   From 25,001 to   NACC             4 weeks
100,000
1.5   Above 100,000   NACC in           4 weeks
consultation
with the World
Bank
2. National, Regional,  2.1   Up-to 100,000    NACC              4 weeks
Research and Private
Sector Initiatives
2.2   Above 100,000   NACC in           4 weeks
consultation
with the World
Bank
The threshold of proposals for both local and national initiatives to be funded through the NACC/IDA-
HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account is US$200,000.
All levels of the NACC system will have technical conmmittees to review proposals from implementers
based on the budget threshold levels. Approvals/comments must be given within the number of weeks provided
above. In case of failure in complying with the framework, the NGO/CBO/private sector entity can send a
reminder or complaint either to the next higher level or to NACC directly. The NACC Secretariat (Technical
Committee), as the body responsible for authority to release funds, will work closely with the FMA to ensure
that after satisfactory accounting for previous grants and approval, funds are released within seven days.
An initial advance based on the approved work plans and budgets for the first two quarters will be
released by the FMA directly to the bank accounts of the implementing entities at the community level.
Subsequent releases will be made quarterly on the basis of the approved work plans, and budget and cash need
projections, and after the entity has satisfactorily accounted for the previous quarter's release.



204
Financial and physical progress reports, in agreed formats that will be included in the funding agreements,
will be forwarded both to the FMA and NACC. The implementing NGOs/CBO/private sector institutions will
be classified into two categories for accounting purposes:
Category 1 will report directly to the FMA and will consist of those:
*  presenting financial proposals in excess of US$15,000 that are reviewed and approved by PACCs or
NACC;
*  presenting financial proposals of up to US$15,000 that are reviewed and approved by DACCs or
CACCs, but whose financial management capability is confirmed adequate and satisfactory by the
FMA.
Category 2 will report through a facilitating NGO and will consist of those presenting financial proposals
of up to US$15,000 and whose financial management capacity is considered inadequate.
The FMA will transfer funds directly to the implementing entities and notify the facilitating NGOs. The
facilitating NGO will be responsible for reviewing, certifying, and forwarding to the FMA the financial reports
of the CBOs under their supervision. They will also be responsible for enhancing the financial management
capacities of these CBOs.
Project-level budgetary control and monitoring:
To facilitate monitoring of expenditure against budget at the project level, budgets and expenditure reports
for coordinating and implementing units will be captured in NACC's accounting and reporting system. It is
envisaged that NACC's accounting system will be based on a package recently implemented for the STI
Project, which has a strong data analysis and reporting capability. Currently the STI Project is running on a
single-user version that will be upgraded to a multi-user version as the volume of transactions increases. This
system will be fully assessed prior to project effectiveness for the purpose of the Kenya HIV/AlDS Disaster
Response Project and recommendations will be made on areas that require special attention and changes to meet
the project's unique needs.
NACC will prepare comprehensive financial management procedures including guidelines for
implementing Units to ensure data is properly captured and analyzed. It is expected that project financial
transactions from the FMA and ministries will be electronically transferred to NACC's accounting system to
avoid duplicate processing of data. Once transactions are entered into the system, NACC should be able to
generate required PMRs and other internal financial management reports showing actual versus budget and
variance, analyzed by project components, activities, expenditure categories, and implementing/coordinating
units over required time periods.



205
Auditing arrangements:
NACC will prepare consolidated annual project accounts using the expenditure statements submitted by
the various implementers. The detailed audit review and voucher verification will take place at various points:
* For funds released through the HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account:
-  an external audit report will be required from those NGO/CBO/private sector institutions
receiving more than US$20,000;
-  the FMA will audit, either directly or by sub-contracting an audit firm, a sample of those
NGO/CBO/private sector institutions receiving up to US$20,000;
-  the audit of NACC will be extended to cover disbursements made by the FMA.
It will be clearly stated in the funding agreement that the FMA and NACC technical review committee
will have access to the financial management records of the beneficiaries for periodic reviews/audits. Annual
project audits will be performed by private independent auditors and subject to approval by the Controller and
Auditor General (Corporations) and IDA. The audit reports should be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of the financial year.
Procurement:
General:
It is not possible at this stage to determine the exact mix of goods and services to be procured under the
overall project. This is due to the reasons that only summary aggregate data for the different participating line
ministries are available, and that 60 percent of the project funds are allocated to local initiatives under
community-based sub-projects. The procurement plan for the first year will be prepared based on the initial
needs of the NACC and the work-programs submitted by the concerned ministries. Costs for the subsequent
years were only indicative at the time of project appraisal. The exact mix of procurement will be determined on
an annual basis during annual joint reviews between NACC, IDA, and the other partners, where a draft
procurement plan for the following financial year will be presented and agreed upon.
IDA will finance goods, civil works, consultancy, training, and other local activities necessary to
implement the project. Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, Section 3.15, Community Participation in
Procurement. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be assessed on an annual
basis (in the form of procurement/physical audits by an external agency. In addition to the formal annual
audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.



206
Institutional arrangement:
The overall coordination of the program implementation will be done by NACC through its Secretariat,
with each line ministry and CBO/NGO responsible for implementation of their relevant work programs. All
major procurement activities for Part A and Part B will be handled centrally by NACC, except minor
procurements for contracts valued at less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract subject to an aggregate of
US$50,000 equivalent per line ministry per year, which will be handled by the respective line ministries in
accordance with the agreed work-programs. In order to kick-start the procurement activities under the program,
NACC will be hiring a procurement adviser to provide support in the initial procurement activities of the
project including hiring of the FMA, and preparation of the simplified procurement procedures manual for the
community-based programs.
As part of the FMA's contract, a procurement specialist will be hired for the first year of project
operations for coordination and support of the project-related procurement activities including contract
management. The procurement specialist will provide on-going procurement and contract management training
to designated NACC staff, who will take over the procurement activities at the end of the first year of
operations. Furthermore, in order to build capacity at the local level, where necessary, the procurement
specialist will provide procurement training workshops at the local level. It should be noted that since 60
percent of the project funds (US$30 million) will be channeled to communities for local initiatives, it is not
expected that the NACC Secretariat would be involved in extensive procurement activities with large-value
contracts, and the bulk of the major procurements should be completed during the first year of the project
activities.
As a part of the capacity-building process, NACC requested that IDA provide procurement workshops for
in-house staff as well as the concerned parties at the district level. This can be achieved through the semi-
annual procurement supervision missions, where the procurement specialist can conduct these workshops
without extra burden on the supervision budget. The costs of the workshops arrangements will be covered from
the project. In addition, the procurement specialist in the Country Office will, on a regular basis, provide
training and hands-on assistance to the staff involved in procurement.
The above procurement arrangements should be reviewed within six months of the project operations, and
where necessary modifications/changes should be made. At the end of the first year, an assessment should be
made by a Bank procurement specialist with respect to the in-house procurement capacity, and a decision on
whether the outstanding workload can be handled by these individuals should be reached.



207
Procurement capacity assessment:
An assessment of NACC procurement capacity has been carried out, and a report has been prepared. The
report indicates relatively high risks at the NACC. In consideration of the fact that NACC is a newly
established parastatal, there is limited capacity and experience in procurement-related activities. The current
capacity of NACC without outside support (i.e., hiring of the procurement advisor and procurement specialist)
is likely to be inadequate to handle the procurement activities workload under the project. During the appraisal,
a recommendation was made to appoint a procurement adviser to handle the initial key procurement activities
(including the FMA), and thereafter as a part of the FMA's contract, a procurement specialist will be hired for
the first year of project operations to handle and coordinate the on-going procurement and contract management
support within NACC. This individual will train the in-house NACC staff to take over the procurement
activities of the project from the end of the first year onward. The rationale for this recommendation, as
communicated to NACC, is as follows:
* Considering the relatively low number of procurement actions that will be carried out centrally, hiring of
a procurement agent will not be a cost-effective method, and since the selection would have to be
through a competitive process, it would take too long to have the agents on board.
*  There is an urgent need to start the procurement process for hiring of the FMA since this will be a pre-
condition for disbursement under Part C. Hiring of a procurement adviser can be done in a relatively
short time. This individual can provide all the necessary support in the procurement process including
finalization of the Terms of Reference, preparation of the Request for Proposals, evaluation of
proposals, negotiations, and award.
*  Hiring of the procurement specialist through the FMA contract will simplify the contract administration
process for NACC, and since there is a direct relationship between the procurement process, contract
management, and disbursement, the coordination and communication between the relevant parties will
be simplified. Additionally, in case of problems the Agency will have the facility to provide back-up
support where necessary.
*  Since the volume of the project procurement activities may not require a full-time position, the
procurement specialist will provide support in capacity building for both NACC in-house staff and local
levels, through provision and conduct of procurement workshops in different regions.
Time did not suffice to conduct an assessment of procurement capacity at local levels, but a review of the
Country Procurement Assessment report (CPAR) prepared in 1997 shows that the risks for procurement at the
local level are considered to be high, and the procurement capacity at the local level is generally weak.
However, the value of procurement actions that will be carried out at the local levels under the project are
relatively small, and the types of works, goods, and services will be very limited. They will mostly deal with
minor civil works, small service contracts, or small procurement of goods (including furniture items required
for setting up the offices in the various constituencies) and supplies of mainly the recurrent nature through
shopping. Furthermore, through the conduct of the NACC procurement workshops, local capacity will be
enhanced over the project implementation period.



208
As a part of the capacity-building process, NACC has also requested that IDA provide annual
procurement workshops for in-house staff as well as the concerned parties at the district level. This can be
achieved through the semi-annual procurement supervision missions, where the procurement specialist can
conduct these workshops without extra burden on the supervision budget. The costs of the workshops
arrangements will be covered from the project.
Procurement of goods, works, and consulting assignments:
Procurement of goods and works for all IDA-financed components will be carried out in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting services by firms or'individuals
financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Given the urgency of the program, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year of operations
will be placed in the local newspapers as well as in United Nations Development Business (UNBD on-line
publication). Detailed annual GPNs for the subsequent years will be prepared for the project and published in
United Nations Development Business. The subsequent GPNs will describe all outstanding ICB for goods
contracts, as well as consulting assignments. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest
(EOI) will be prepared for the individual procurement actions where necessary. The Borrower will prepare a
procurement plan for the first year of project operations to be included in Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The plan will include relevant information on goods, works, and consulting services under the project as well as
the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every
quarter and reviewed by IDA during each supervision mission.
Civil works:
No large civil works are scheduled for the project. The design does provide for flexibility under Part C of
the project, for CBO/NGOs to undertake small works within the context of their work-programs, though the
budgets for the grants must be approved prior to disbursements and the number of such works would be quite
limited, as described below.
Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded
on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The
awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided
they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Contracts for small works estimated to cost more than US$20,000 equivalent per contract are ineligible for
financing under the project.



209
Goods:
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$10.7 million for the project as detailed below. These exclude
any goods that might be procured in small quantities through work-programs under Part C of the project.
Emergency requirements:
Given the urgency of the project, and to facilitate speedy procurement of items required urgently for
institutional strengthening, specific contracts will be handled in the following manner:
To be procured centrally by NACC:
* Computers and accessories, office and power equipment: US$1.5 million-to be sourced from the United
Nations Agency (LAPSO);
* Vehicles: US$300,000-to be sourced from IAPSO and/or National Shopping procedures (preferably
from "bonded warehouses" on a competitive basis);
* Furniture for NACC and Regional Coordinating Offices: US$100,000-to be sourced from local
manufacturers/suppliers by National Shopping procedures.
To be procured by various constituencies:
* Funiture by National Shopping for contracts not exceeding US$3,000 equivalent per contract subject to
an aggregate of $200,000 for all the 210 constituencies. Contracts under this category exceeding
US$3,000 equivalent per contract are not permissible.
All Shopping procedures will follow the IDA Procurement Guidelines (Para. 3.5 and 3.6) and the June 9,
2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the Bank; procurement from the United Nations
Agencies (i.e., IAPSO) will follow para. 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. All contracts under the above-
stated "Emergency Requirements" must be concluded within 12 months of the Credit Effectiveness date. The
list of these items and their estimated value should be agreed upon with IDA as per the approved Procurement
Plan. The procurement and timely distribution of the goods will be the responsibility of NACC.



210
Other goods:
Procurement of drugs, pharnaceutical items/medical equipment, and condoms will be ineligible under this
project due to the fact that the Kenya D.A.R.E project will be financing these types of procurement activities.
Goods that are estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract will be subject to prior
review and will be procured through ICB procedures. Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages
valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$3
million equivalent, will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. The draft
standard bidding document for NCB will be submitted by NACC to IDA for prior review. The approved
bidding document will form the basis of all NCB procurements under this project.
Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of
US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured through National Shopping procedures (for goods available locally)
and/or through International Shopping procedures (for those goods not available on the national market), in
accordance with Bank Guidelines, and/or through the United Nations Agencies (i.e., IAPSO). The procedures
followed and total aggregate amount for shopping method will be reviewed after six months of project
operations, and depending on performance and the results of the review, the total aggregate amount may be
adjusted downward where necessary.
Standard request forms and establishment of guidelines for conduct of the shopping method (as per the
June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping") should be prepared and included in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
Grants to community-based sub-projects:
The Project will support a community-based prepayment scheme for HIV/AIDS Community Initiative
Account-related activities. The total cost for this activity (Part C) is US$30 million equivalent. The HIV/AIDS
Community Initiative Account will finance small-scale, community-based HIV/AIDS-related activities,
including minor repairs or works, purchase of drugs and supplies in small quantities (in emergency cases), care
and maintenance for AIDS patients and orphans, AIDS-prevention promotion, and other interventions at the
community level.
Work-programs under Part C will depend on applications received from communities, NGOs, and private
organizations against a positive list of activities. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, small
works, and services to be procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Funding for these
activities will be in the form of grants. Therefore, the types of activities to be financed under these activities
and their procurement details will depend on the needs identified by communities.
In accordance with the established guidelines (as part of the Project Implementation Plan), large works
contracts and vehicles are ineligible for financing under Part C. The Africa Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments will be used in the design of procurement
under this aspect of the project. The Office of the President through NACC will be responsible for ensuring
compliance with these guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by
the Bank, and independent firms/consultants appointed by NACC.



211
Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures for community-based programs including the
positive list of activities qualifving under Part C will be developed by NACC. for approval by IDA.
Services:
The total cost of consultant services is estimated at US$6 million equivalent for the entire project,
excluding any services to be procured under Part C of the project, as detailed in the above paragraph. Except as
detailed below, consulting services will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms
(selected through advertisement of Expression of Interests) based on Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
whereby the quality of the technical proposals are given highest scores and the evaluation of the technical
proposals are carried out before opening the financial proposals (Section II, para. 2.1-2.28 of the Consultant
Guidelines).
The consultancy services required would be mostly in the areas of AIDS research, AIDS education,
trainers, community development specialists, public relations firms (information campaign), financial
management, monitoring and evaluation, audit, and accounting. The exact mix (types of consultancy, budgets,
procurement methods) will be discussed and agreed annually during joint reviews.
Consultants for financial audits estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$250,000 equivalent, will be selected through the Least Cost Selection method (para. 3.1 and
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines).
Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant Guidelines will be
selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants method (Section V. para. 5.1-5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines). Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison of job description
requirements against the qualifications of those expressing interest in the assignment or those approached
directly. For both firms and individual contracts, single-source selection may be used only on an exceptional
basis, with prior agreement by IDA, in accordance with the provision of para. 3.8 through 3.11 of the
consultants. All terms of reference for consultancy services are subject to prior agreements with IDA.
For services procured at the district level (Community-Based Activities-Part C) under approved work-
programs, contracts for services under US$5,000 equivalent per contract, and an aggregate amount per
NGO/Consultant not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent, will not be subject to prior review by IDA of Terms of
Reference for services, and may be awarded on a single-source basis based on the qualifications of the
consultant.
To the extent possible, standard Terms of Reference will be prepared for the small consultancy contracts,
and they will be submitted to IDA for no objection.
The service contracts for the research studies will be subject to IDA prior review and will be awarded
based on a two-stage approval process. The initial review of the research proposals will be carried out by the
AIDS Research Technical Committee (to be established). The award recommendations from the Technical
Committee should receive the approval of the National Medical Research Review Board before IDA no
objection can be issued.



212
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-
lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 or equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants
(in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient
number of qualified individual or firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign
firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The Standard Request for Proposal
(RFP) as developed by the Bank will be used for requesting proposals, and for selection and appointment of
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments-simple missions of standard nature
(i.e., those not exceeding six months) carried out by individual consultants or firms. The Government was
briefed during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines and the RFP, in particular with
regard to advertisement, public bid opening, and evaluation criteria.
Training, workshops, and study tours
The total cost for this component is estimated at US$2.1 million for the project. Training, workshops, and
study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved annual programs that would identify the general
framework of training activities for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number
of trainees, and cost estimates. The training institutions for all workshops/training with costs exceeding
US$5,000 should be identified within the annual program, and where the training cost exceeds US$20,000, the
selection of the training institution should be based on a competitive process preferably using the quality-based
method of selection. Overseas training is ineligible for financing under the project. Post-reviews will be
conducted from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course contents/trainees and justifications
thereof, and costs incurred.
Prior review
All ICB for goods will require prior review by IDA. The first three NCB contracts will require prior
review by IDA. The first two contracts for goods procured against the "Emergency Requirements" will require
prior review by IDA. Contracts with consulting firms costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more and
contracts with individual consultants costing the equivalent of US$30,000 or more will require prior review by
IDA. All single-sourced selection of consultants valued at US$5,000 equivalent and above will require prior
review by IDA. These prior review requirements will not apply to Community-Based Operations under Part C,
except as provided above.



213
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 52.4 million equivalent)
Procurement Method1 
Expenditure Category      ICB        NCB         Other2   N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                  0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods (includes IEC)   3.90       3.00        2.30      1.50       10.70
(3.90)    (3.00)      (2.30)    (0.00)     (9.2)
3. Services               0.00       0.00        7.70     0.90        8.60
(0.00)    (0.00)      (7.70)    (0.00)     (7.70)
4. Community Based Grants  0.00      0.00        30.00    0.00        30.00
(0_00)    (0f00)       (30.00)   (0.00)    (30.00)
4. Training               0.00       0.00        2.10     0.00        2.10
(0.00)    (0.00)      (2.10)    (0.00)     (2.10)
5. Unallocated            0.00       0.00        1.00     0.00        1.00
(0.00)    (0.00)      (1.00)    (0.00)     (1.00)
Total                     3.90       3.00       43.10     2.40        52.40
( 3 .90)    ((3.00)  ((43.10)   (0.00)     (50.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs
include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national/local shopping,
consulting services, community-based activities, services of contracted staff of the
project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds
to local government units.



214
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Expenditure Category Contract Value        Procurement    Contracts Subject
Threshold            Method           to Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                       (US$ millions)
1. Works              <20                  At least three   All post-review
Quotations from
Small works through                        qualified
Work-programs                              contractors
2. Goods              >=100                ICB              All contracts
<100                NCB               First three contracts,
all other post-review
<30                  LSIIS/LAPSO      All post-review
3. Services
>=100 and            QCBS/QCS/other  >$50,000 (for firns)
Firms                 <100                 (will be determined
from annual plans)
Individuals           <100                 Individual       >$30,000 (for
individuals)
4. Training,          >=20                 QBS/Other        Post-review, but
Workshops, Study                                            anual plans to be
Tours                                                       reviewed by IDA
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               US$7.5 M
Overall Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision mission proposed: Once every six months. In addition, ad-hoc
reviews/audits will be done by Country Office procurement specialist or other appointed consultants.



215
Disbursement
The project will use Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements. This will result in the
project having a sufficient balance in the Special Account to fund the emergency activities of the project and
linking the physical progress and status of procurement to the financial reports. PMRs will be produced on a
quarterly basis.
It is proposed that the Government initially establish a Special Account. Funds from the Credit Account
would be transferred to the Special Account quarterly. IDA funds would only be used to finance eligible
expenditures under the project. Agreement has been reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and
operating the Special Account.
The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be 20 percent of the Credit. The initial deposit into
the Special Account will be for the estimated cash requirements for the first six months of the project. Future
replenishments into the Special Account will be based on the submission of the quarterly PMRs, including a
projection of estimated cash needs for the following six months.
Funds from the Special Account will be advanced on a quarterly basis to the various project accounts in
the implementing entities. These advances will be accounted for on a quarterly basis and continuing advances
will be dependent upon the receipt and positive review of the quarterly financial and physical progress reports.



216
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in US$          Financing Percentage
million
Equipment, supplies, vehicles, ILEC                           100% of foreign
materials, and other goods                             expenditures and 90% of local
______________________________               expenditures
Part A                                    3.4
Part B                                    4.35
Consultant's services and training                                 100%
Part A                                    5.3
Part B                                    3.2
Grants under Part C                       30.0                     100%
Incremental Operating Costs               1.25                     90%
Unallocated                               2.5
Total Project Costs                       52.4
Total                                     50.0



217
Attachment 7
Project Processing Schedule
Composition of Task Team:
Task Team Leader:      Albertus Voetberg (AFTHI)
Quality Advisors:      Debrework Zewdie (AFRHV, ACTafJica), Christopher D.
Walker (HDNHE)
Ok Pannenborg (AFTH4)
Health Economists:     Oscar Picazo (AFTH 1), Rene Bonnel (AFRHV,
ACTafrica)
Financial Management   John Nyaga (AFMKE)
Specialist:
Health Specialist:     Sheila Dutta (AFRHV, ACTafrica)
Operations Analysts:    Andrew Follmer (AFTHl), Catherine Wanjiku Gachukia
(AFMKE)
Social Development     Nyambura Githagui (AFMKE)
Specialist:
Procurement Specialist:  Dahir Warsame (AFMKE)
Disbursement Officer:   Margaret Olale (AFMKE)
Operations Officer:    Wacuka Ikua (AFMKE)
TT Assistants:         Meena Ramchandani (AFMKE), Therese Cruz (AFTHI)
Management Decisions:
Issue                Action/Decision          Responsibility
Concept Note                 June 1, 2000
Identification               June 26-30, 2000
Draft Technical Annex        July 10, 2000
Decision Meeting             July 12, 2000
Appraisal                    July 17-22, 2000
Negotiations                 August 2-4 (in the field)
Board Package                August 14, 2000
Board Presentation           September 14, 2000
Total Preparation Budget: (US$90,000)
Bank Budget: US$90,000
Trust Fund:
Cost to Date: (US$000)
Albertus Voetberg            Dzingai Mutumbuka        Harold E. Wackman
Team Leader                  Sector Manager           Country Director
d .z  _      7t.ek,2I )'t'~~~~.



218
Attachment 8. Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft (July, 2000) -- final document a condition of Effectiveness
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Assessment, Umbrella PAD - April, 2000
Economic Assessment DARE Project-- April, 2000
Institutional Assessment (ETC Consultants) -- March, 2000
Social Assessment DARE Project -- April, 2000
Environmental Data Sheet (cleared by AFTEl and AFTII), July 2000
C. Other
Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1997 on HIV/AIDS
Kenya's Health Policy Framework - November, 1994
Project Concept Note - June, 2000
The macro economic impact of HIV/AIDS in Kenya, March 2000
(draft Technical Paper by Robalino, Voetberg and Picazo)
World Bank Identification Mission Aide-Memoire - July, 2000
National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 1999-2004 draft - July, 2000
World Bank Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire - July, 2000
Legal Notice No. 170 establishing NACC - November, 1999
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, August, 2000
Kenya DARE Project, draft PAD, August, 2000
*Including electronic files



219
Affachment 9. Status of Bank Group Operations
Status of Bank Group Operations
(As of end FY00)
Status ot Bank Group Operations lOpera tons Portfolio)
DIfference Between
Board                                              Laa  R                                                     Expected and Actual
Date                                          Supervision Rating bl         origin A-n. ot In. In  UIIInn.     0I&biusaments.
Fiscal                                      eeo-            ml,fl,
Year  Active Projects                      nvebon   lw Odfib              IBRD        IDA    Cancel.  Undlsb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
1993    P001348   PARASTATAL REFORM TA           U            U                0         0          0        0        0.        0
1994    P001353   MICRO & SMALL ENTERP           S            S                0      21.83         0    15.82    13.58      9.99
1995    P001367   INST. DEVELOPMENT              U            U                0         0          0        0        0         0
1995    P001333   SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED           S            S                0        40          0     4.94      4.52        0
1996    P001331   ARID LANDS                     S            S                0        22          0    11.82    10.85         0
1996    P035691   NAIROBI MOMBASA ROAD           S            S                0        50          0    19.87    16.08         0
1996    P001319   URBAN TRANSPORT                S            S                0       115          0    53.16    22.01         0
1997    P034180   EARLY CHILDHOOD DEV            S            S                0       27.8         0    20.06      9.34        0
1997    P001344   ENERGY SECTOR REFORM           S            S                0       125          0   106.06    92.45         0
1997    P046838   LAKE VICTORIA ENV.             U            U                0       12.8         0     8.53      4.58        0
1997    P001354   NARP II                        S            U                0       39.7         0     19.9    -4.76         0
1999    P056595   EMERGENCY INFRAS.REHAB         S            S                0        40          0    32.38    33.25         0
Statements of IFC and MIGA Prograam
Kenya - IFC and MIGA Program, FY 1998-2001
1998  1999  2000 200
IFC approvals (US$m)                                      20.00 51.80 39.08
Sector (%)
FINANCIAL SERVICES                                            50    88
FOOD & AGRO-BUSINESS                                                  5    17
INFRASTRUCTU1RE                                               50      4    54
MINING & METALS                                                             29
TIMBER, PULP & PAPER                                                  3
Total                                                        100   100   100       0
Investment instrumentf%)
Loans                                                         85    97    80
Equity                                                                3      3
Quasi-Equity                                                  15            17
Other                                                                        0
Total                                                        100   100   100       0
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                                     0.000 4.700 4.700



220
KENYA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1970/74/77/79/81/88i  Panafrican                     25.21    0.00    4.51    0.00   25.21    0.00    4.51    0.00
89/94/96                TPS (Kenya)                   0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00
1972                    DBK                          10.00    0.00    1.31    0.00    3.00    0.00    1.31    0.00
1980/83/98              Diamond Trust                 0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00
1982                    IPS(K)                        0.00    0.00    0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.00
1982                    LIK                           0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1983/91                 EBP                           3.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1985                    IPS(K)-Allpack                0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00
1986                    IPS(K)-AL                     0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986                    IPS(K)-Prem Food              0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00
1986                    IPS(K)-Frigoken               0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.00
1986                    AEF Future Hotel              0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                    AEF Capital Fish              0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                    AEF Mosi                      0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                    Intl Hotels-Ken               4.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                    EARC                          0.00    0.00    1.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.85    0.00
1994/99                 AEF Bawan Roses               0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                    AEF Kihingo Rose              0.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.39    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                    AEF Vegpro                    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                    Magadi Soda Co.               6.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                    AEF Equitea                   0.26    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.26    0.00    0.12    0.00
1996                    AEF K-Rep Bank                0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                    AEF Landmark                  0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                    AEF Ceres                     0.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                    AEF Makini                    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                    AEF Redhill Flrs              0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                    CFC                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                    AEF AAR Clinic                0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00
1998                    AEF Deras Ltd.                1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                    AEF Locland                   0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                    GBHL                          7.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998                    AEF Multi Hauler              1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                    AEF Transenergy               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       74.43    3.00   11.76    0.00   63.86    3.00        9.84    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Conmmitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00



221
Attachment 10. Kenya at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Kenya     Africa  Income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       28.7       628      3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (AHlas method, US$)                     330       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       9.5       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         2.5        2.6       1.7                     ..
Labor force (X)                                        2.7        2.6       1.9     GNP           .                   Gross
per                  ,    ~     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199248)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   42
Urban population (% of total population)                31        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        57        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                61        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of chidren under 5)               23          .                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  53        47        74
Illiteracy I% of population age 15.)                    ..        42        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   89         77      108         -Kenya          Low-income group
M ale                                                 89        84       113
Female                                                89        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                            4.5      8.0       10.6      11.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                23.7     20.8       15.4      14.4                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            35.0     21.3       28.2      24.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   27.0     15.7        8.1       6.7
Gross national savings/GDP                   22.9      12.7      15.0      13.5
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.2     -7.7      -4.2      -414     Domesti 
Interest payments/GDP                         1.3      2.8        1.7       1.1            c                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               36.9     72.2       61.3      60.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   20.4     41.4       21.5      19.1
Present value of debt/GOP                       ..      ..       46.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    161.8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1888-98     1997      1998  1189-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.9      2.3      2.1        1.8       4.8         -Kenya          Low-incomegroup
GNP per capita                       0.3     -0.2      0.1        0.2       2.5
Exports of goods and services        1.4      3.5    -13.5       -5.8       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          20
Agriculture                                  42.0     31.5       27.5      26.1     2
Industry                                     18.0     18.5       15.0      1662 '0 
Manufacturing                               11.0     11.6       9.7      10.8      o   f
Services                                     40.1     50.0       57.5      57.7    -10-           94   95   of   97   B
Private consumption                          55.8     65.8       75.7      77.2    -20
General government consumption               17.2     18.6       16.2      16.1                - GDl         *GDP
Imports of goods and services                31.6     26.4       35.5      32.3
1977-87  1988-98      1987      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.1       1.2       1.2       1.6    *o-
Industry                                      3.6      2.3        2.0       1.3    30
Manufacturing                                4.9      2.9       1.9       1.3    20
Services                                      5.4      3.7        3.1       2.1    10
Private consumption                           2.6       2.2       0.0      -3.8    10       3
General government consumption                2.4     10.8       22.8      11.0      0
Gross domestic investment                     -2.9     2.5        6.4       5.8    20
Imports of goods and services                 -4.5     8.6        2.5      -4.2             -Exports         "mports
Gross national product                        4.1      2.5        2.6       2.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



222
Kenya
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        so 10
Consumer prices                               8. 8.7            11.2      10.7    40
Implicit GOP deflator                        16.9      5.4      15.5      10.6   230
Government finance                                                                10 
(% of GDP, includes curnent grants)
Current revenue                                 .    24.7       27.4      27.6            93   94   9s   96   97   se
Current budget balance                                 1.4       2.9       2.7               'GDP deflator   *CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                               -4.8       0.1       0.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   907      2 060    2 012     4coo
Fuel                                          .       7        170       149
Coffee                                               236       296      212    3.0
Manufactures                                  .      123       283       220
Total impods (cif)                                   1,898     3,255    3,307     2 o
Food                                                 130       996     1044      10 DO
Fuel and energy                              ..      348       519       532
Capital goods                                        433       844      920        o                  
Export price index (1995'100)                          77        110       99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..    112         97       86               *Exports      *lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       .      69        114      115
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mirions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (1k)
Exports of goods and services               1,553    1,698     2,972    2,849      4
Imports of goods and services               1,434    2,104     3,738    3,737
Resource balance                             119    -406        -766     -887      2 .
Net income                                   -158    -280       -172     -133 o
Net current transfers                         31       72       497       515
-2-
Current account balance                        -8    -614       -441     -506
Financing items (net)                        284    1,049       541       547
Changes In net reserves                      -277    -435       -100       -42
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milions)       526      294        811      783
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)               8.3    16.5       58.7      60.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ mJllions)                                                                     Composition of total debt. 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1658    5,755      6,486     7,041
IBRD                                       202    1,128       213       154                G aso  A 154
IDA                                        112      553      2,032    2,210                    0  A
Total debt service                           326      709        648      551
IBRD                                        18      145        97        83                                      22I
IDA                                          1        7        27        30         F: 879
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             47      246       207       190
Ofricial creditors                         124      228        -47        9
Private creditors                          -29      144       -119      -72                                    C 196
Foreign direct investment                   57       43         20       20            E:20
Portfolio equity                             0        0         12        4                               0: 636
World Bank program
Commitments                                120      128        178      165    |A-18RD                        E- Eilateral
Disbursements                               53      113        156      123    |B-IDA    D-Other mutilateral   F- Private
Principalrepayments                          3       63         85       81      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   50       50         71       42
Interest payments                           16       89        39        32
Net transfers                               33      -39        32        10
Development Economics                                                                                                9/9/99



223
Attachment IL. Kenya HIV/AIDS Brief
HIV/AIDS Prevalence Ranking in Sub-Saharan
Africa: 9                                                       -            .
Background
- In Nairobi, HIV prevalence among sex workers increased from 62 percent in 1985       |            i
to 86 percent in 1992. In 1993-9S. 55 perccnt of sex workers tested in Mombassa were           X_                 I
HIV positive. Prevalence among male STI patients tested in Nairobi rose from 16 percent   1   NO
in 1985 to 28 percent in 1991-92. In 1996. 14 percent of miale STI patients tested in    9
Nairobi were HIV positive.
,- In recent years, the epidemic lias become increasingly generalized. In the major
tirban areas. HIV prevalence among antenatal clinic attendees rose from 2 percent in 1985
to 19 percent in 1995. In Nairobi, prevalence among antenatal clinic attendees reached 25
percent in 1995; in 1997, 16 percent of antenatal clinic attendees tested in Nairobi were
HIV positive. Outside the major urban areas, HIV prevalence among antenatal clinic
attendees increased from less than I percent in 1988 to 13 percent in 1997.
>- The epidemic is orphaning Kenyani cihildren in large niunbers. By the end of 1999.
730,000 children had lost their mother or both parents to AIDS.
'- In 1993, only 9.9 percent of women ages 25-29 reported ever using a condoml*
Country Response/Obstacles
S  The political rcsponse has been slow and withotit strong coiimintneit from tile     IImv Prevalence among Pregnant
llighest lev-els of government. However, this seems to be changing as some politicians  2 W              (pe )l
and administrators reguiarly speak out on tIhe subject.
-   iThere remains a strong undercurrenit of skepticism and opposition to assertive  20
HIV/AIDS prevention and care.                                                       |                               l
)- Highly placed policymnakers and many religious organizations oppose efforts to      ll
standardize family life education (inciliding HIV/AIDS) in schools eveni thotiugh Kenyan
youth are extremely vulnerable.                                                          5
)  Some influential opinion leaders oppose condom distributioln.
,  The responsibility for HIV/AIDS rests with the National AIDS and STI Control       o
Programme witiun tie Ministry of Healthi thouigih the National AIDS Council will serve as   1 97 19W. 199l 19."3 10  197 l
a platforn to respond across sectors.
)- Despite the level of infectioni, care and support do not feature prominently ill      AIDS Cases Reported
national or district plans: a growing nitmber of commtiunities are willing lo rcspond to the  hv Age. Cuimilative
epidemic but need support and guidance to gct started.                                13000
Bank Activities to Date                                                               9000
Yes  No          7000
6000
Is HIV/AIDS a regular part of oLir high-level dialogue with govt. and civil |48 
society'?                                                                  3|0|_0
Does H-TV/AIDS receive substantive treatment in the CAS or its update?           1 0o
Age Age Age Age Age Age, Age Age
Has the portfolio bcen reviewed for HIV/AIL)S retrotitting?  |0-4 5-14 15- 20- 30- 40- A0- 60+
Do all projects include the necessary HIV/AIDS-mnitigation componenits?  -  |                 19  29 39 49 59
Does the Banuk regularly atteld I JNAIDS meetings?                   -                    Male         Female
PoetName             Approval Date       SM           AIDS SM                  Lire Expectancy with and without
Project                  05110/8     t       $M          AD$                         AIDS, 1998 and 2010 (vears)
Population III Project      05/10/88            12.2         1.0l                                                    l
STI Project                 03/14/95            40.0         40.0                l
DARE Project                FY01                50.0         25.0        |9ll
AIDS Disaster Response      09/14/00            50.0         50.0
Opportunities [To be identified by the Country Team.] 0l0
0  10   20    30    40    50    60    70
Without AIDS  -   With AIDS



224
Annex 8
Program Processing Schedule
Composition of Task Team:
Manager:                 Debrework Zewdie
Task Team Leader:        Anwar Bach-Baouab,
ACTafrica Team Members: Hans Binswanger, Jonathan Brown, Rene Bonnel,
Therese Cruz, Sheila Dutta, Keith Hansen, Yasmin Jiwa,
Srish Kumar, Nadeem Mohammad, Robert Ritzenthaler,
Bachir Souhlal, Robert Saum, Irene Xenakis,
Mahtab Zoighadri
Ad Hoc Committee:        Joanne Salop (OPS), Ulrich Zachau (OPS), Katherine Sierra
(OCSVP), Rene Ruivivar (OCSOK), Nicolette deWitt (LEGOP),
Geoffrey Lamb (FRM), David Webber (LOAAF), Nadjib Sefta
(AFTQK), Robert Calderisi (AFC07), Ok Pannenborg (AFTH),
Birger Fredriksen (AFTHD), Laura Frigenti (AFTH4), Steen
Jorgensen (HDNSP), Maryvonne Plessis-Freissard (AFTT2),
John Roome (AFTQK), Alan Gelb (AFTMI), Roger Sullivan
(AFTII), Meskerem Grunizky-Bekele (UNAIDS)
Management Decisions:
May 31, 2000             Concept Review Meeting
June 2, 2000             Operations Committee Meeting
July 12, 2000            Technical Review Meeting;
authorized appraisal
July 17-22, 2000         Kenya appraisal
July 17-27, 2000         Ethiopia appraisal
July 27, 2000            ROC Review Meeting;
authorized negotiations
August 2-4, 2000         Kenya negotiations
August 1-4, 2000         Ethiopia negotiations
August 11, 2000          Board package to RVP;
RVP approval
August 21, 2000          Distribution of Board Package
September 14, 2000       Board Presentation
Total Preparation Budget: (US$ 317,000)
Bank Budget:             US$ 250,000
Trust Fund:              US$ 67,000
Cost to Date:            US$ 317,000



225
Annex 9. Documents in the Program File
AFRICA - MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PROGRAM
A.   Project Implementation Plans
B.   Bank Staff Assessments
C.   National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans
D.   Guidelines for the Preparation of Project Implementation Plans and Operational Manuals for
HIIV/AIDS Funds
E.   The Impact of World Bank Support to the HNP Sector in Zimbabwe (OED 1998).
F.   Tuberculosis Control Activities in the Context of Care for People Living with HIV/AIDS
(template for activity needs assessment/project proposals)
G.  Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development Crisis (World Bank
1999)
H.   Safeguarding Development in the Age of AIDS (World Bank 2000)
I.   Report on the global HIV/AIDS epidemic - June 2000 (UNAIDS 2000)



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31006
-Y  2    20.01 -36.0%                                                                                            o~hM M5  0
,D                    ,                                                                                                                   ,
1W0J   200
NIGERIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUY20



