              Document of
           The World Bank




                                           Report No: 36852

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-34150)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

TO THE NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL COUNCIL

        GOVERMENT OF KENYA

                FOR A

     HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project




             April 11, 2007

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                 Currency Unit = US$
                                       SDR 1 = US$ 1.32
                                       US$ 1 = SDR 0.76

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                   JULY 1 -   JUNE 30

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ANC     Antenatal Centre
ART     Antiretroviral Therapy
ARV     Antiretroviral
BCC     Behaviour Change Communication
CACC    Constituency AIDS Control Committee
CBO     Community Based Organisation
CSO     Civil Society Organisation
CSW     Commercial Sex Workers
DFID    Department for International Development
DIR     Detailed Implementation Review
DPM     Directorate of Personnel Management
ERS     Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation
FBO     Faith Based Organisation
FY      Financial Year
GoK     Government of Kenya
HBC     Home Based Care
HIV     Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
ICASA   International Conference on AIDS and STIs in Africa
ICC     Inter-agency Coordinating Committee (for HIV/AIDS)
IDU     Injecting Drug Users
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
ISR     Implementation Status and Results
JAPR    Joint HIV/AIDS Programme Review
KDHS    Kenya Demographic Health Survey
KEMRI   Kenya Medical Research Institute
KEMSA   Kenya Medical Supplies Agency
KHADREP Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
KIRAC   Kenya Inter-Religious AIDS Consortium
KNASP   Kenya National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan
KSh     Kenya shillings
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MP      Member of Parliament
MSM     Men who have Sex with Men
MTEF    Medium term expenditure framework
NACC    National HIV/AIDS Control Council
NASCOP  National AIDS and STD Control Programme

NBTC    National Blood Transfusion Centre
NCST    National Council of Science and Technology
NGO     Non- Governmental Organisation
OI      Opportunistic Infection
OVC     Orphans and Vulnerable Children
PACC    Provincial AIDS Control Committee
PEP     Post Exposure Prophylaxis
PLWHA   People Living with HIV and AIDS
PMCT    Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
STI     Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB      Tuberculosis
UNAIDS  Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
VCT     Voluntary Counselling and Testing



                               Vice President:   Gobind Nankani
                             Country Director    Colin Bruce
                              Sector Manager     Dzingai Mutumbuka
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Michael Mills

                                            KENYA
                            HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Appendix A - Terms of Reference of Consultant Completing Report         25

Project ID: P070920                                                  Project Name: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
Team Leader: Michael Mills                                           TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 30, 2007


1. Project Data
                   Name: HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-34150
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (63%); Other social services (30%); Central government administration (7%)
                  Theme: HIV/AIDS (P); Population and reproductive health (P); Social safety nets (P); Gender (P);
                            Child health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/06/2000                                     Effective: 01/19/2001                01/19/2001
     Appraisal: 07/19/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/12/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL COUNCIL
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Hartwig Schafer                                Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Colin Bruce                                    Harold Wackman
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael Mills                                  Albertus Voetberg
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Hooper


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of August 2000, the Project development objective
(PDO) was to "intensify the multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS and accelerate the process of achieving
the targets set as elaborated in the Kenyan National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan with broad participation of
communities".     The PAD identified two particular Plan targets to which the Project would contribute: (i)
decreasing from 14% to 13% HIV prevalence among people aged 15-24 years by 2003; and (ii) keeping
overall HIV/AIDS prevalence among adults (15-49 years) below 14% by 2004. These two targets relate to
the prevalence of the disease. There were also a series of other indicators identified in the PAD for outputs,
processes and indicators.

The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated October 2000 for the KHADREP has a slightly different
objective for the Project. This was "to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Kenyan National HIV/AIDS
Strategic Plan to: (i) reduce the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya; (ii) mitigate the
socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS; (iii) increase access to the care and support for people infected or
affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic; and (iv) achieve, with the active and broad participation of
communities, the multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS primary targets set out in the Plan". The DCA contains a
description of the three parts of the Project, but does not include the indicators.

From the PAD, it is clear that the main focus of the KHADREP was to reduce the transmission of the
disease. However, the PDO is clearly located within the wider scope of the National Plan, which aimed to
reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, mitigate the socio-economic impact of the disease, and increase access to
care and support for people infected or affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya.

The assessment of the development objective needs to be seen within the context of what was happening in
Kenya at the time, and also the Bank's policies towards the epidemic. On the Kenyan side, the Project was
grounded in the experience and reforms initiated under the previous Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
IDA-26860 (STIP) which helped to create the enabling environment for an expanded HIV/AIDS response
in Kenya. In particular, the STIP helped to establish a developmental, rather than purely medical, national
response. HIV/AIDS was declared a national disaster by the Government of Kenya in 1999. Shortly
afterwards, the National HIV/AIDS Control Council (NACC) was established under the Office of the
President to provide overall leadership and coordination of the national response.           In 2000, NACC
launched the Kenya National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (KNASP) 2000-05. This was the GoK-owned
strategy which KHADREP was explicitly designed to support.

On the Bank side, the orientation of the Project was supported by the 1999 launch of the Bank's regional
AIDS strategy: Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa. The Kenyan NACC was one of the first
two recipients of the first IDA-supported Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa (MAP), and the Project
was prepared at a time when information on the HIV/AIDS epidemic and cost-effective interventions was
rather limited. It was also prepared at a time when World Bank senior management had decided that there
was need for urgent support to African countries to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and that there would
need to be a "learning by doing" approach with high risks being taken where necessary.

Unlike the situation in some other countries, in Kenya it was also decided to proceed with a two-prong
strategy, with the health aspects of the epidemic being addressed through a separate Project (the "DARE")
with the Ministry of Health.

Against this background, the objective of the KHADREP Project is considered to have been relevant,
appropriate and achievable.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision was made to the KHADREP development objective. This was appropriate given the clear link
between the PDO and the Kenya national strategy. Rather than seek to revise the objective of a Bank
project, the Bank team was actively engaged in supporting development of the next phase of the national
strategy, the KNASP 2005-10.


The PAD proposed that no mid-term review should be held, but rather that the objective and components of
the Project should be kept under continuous review by the Nairobi-based Bank team.                   Reviews of
KHADREP were integrated with ­ and supported by­ the annual Joint HIV/AIDS Program Review
(JAPR) in which donor, civil society, private sector and Government partners jointly review progress with
the national strategy. These reviews assisted the NACC and the Bank team to review the progress of the
KHADREP in a participatory way. A good example of this was the discussion at the October 2004 JAPR
of a review paper on the HIV/AIDS epidemic prepared by the Bank team.


3.3 Original Components:
The three Project components as described in the PAD are:

· Support to line ministries (US$10.3 million): The purpose of this component was to initiate, facilitate,
and support the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS-related activities into all line ministries.

· Coordination of program and project activities by NACC and its decentralized entities (US$12.1 million):
This component focused on the institutional strengthening of NACC and related entities (PACCs, DACCs,
and CACCs) and the activities by these institutions to coordinate the national program as well as the
project activities.

· Support to implementation of initiatives from civil society, private sector, and research institutions
(US$30.0 million): This component made financial resources available to civil society, private sector, and
research institutions, with a strong priority given to community-driven initiatives.


These components were generally appropriate and supportive of the PDO and the KNASP, and built
logically on interventions previously supported under the STIP. The components directly addressed the
need to build a multi-sectoral response with effective national and local coordination, while providing direct
support to the most vulnerable and affected populations in Kenya. The components were designed and
launched in a difficult political environment. The Government in Kenya at that time was widely viewed as
corrupt, and lacking public trust and accountability. Relationships between the Government and donor
agencies were generally strained. In these circumstances, there were serious risks associated with these
components. The PAD recognized that "the Project has a high risk of failure". It then went on "But the
potential returns- politically, economically and socially- from stemming or partly reversing the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Kenya are so large that it is considered that this level of risk is very well justified".

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was designed using a highly accelerated timetable (only three months from identification to
Board), due to a senior management decision to move quickly to put in place a Regional response to the
HIV/AIDS crisis. It was also designed in parallel with the comparable MAP project for Ethiopia. As noted



                                                       - 3 -

above, at the time of Project design, there was only limited data available on what interventions work (and
work cost-effectively) in the fight against the HIV/AIDS. It is important and fair to judge the quality of
work done within this context. The task team was given a performance award for the quality and speed of
the work done. This shows that their work was greatly valued by senior management at the time.

As described above, the Project concept in terms of the PDO and project components was sound, given the
severity of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya and the vital need for rapid and decisive action at the
community level. The Project made the brave and correct decision to align support closely with the
Government-led national response, despite the extent of corruption then associated with the Government. A
safer alternative would have been to design a more stand-alone project, which sidelined the NACC. But if
this had been done, donor support to the epidemic would have been fragmented, and opportunities for joint
working with the Government would have been lost. The approach also enabled the Bank to support
directly the "Three Ones" commitment emerging from ICASA 2003.

The Project was not "over-designed" ­ the emphasis was on getting support flowing as quickly as possible.
The design explicitly recognized the need for on-going review and flexibility, with substantial involvement
of the in-country Bank team. This approach was appropriate given that the NACC was a young and weak
institution. However, it did place considerable demands on the time of Bank staff.

Nevertheless, some criticisms which could be made of quality at entry are the following:

Lack of consistency and completeness of performance indicators and targets for components

There are some weaknesses in the project objective and indicators. First, there is some inconsistency
between the PDO in the PAD and the DCA. The former includes specific indicators while the latter does
not. Second, there is also some inconsistency in the PAD between component outputs and indicators. For
example, the only output specified for Component 1 (support to line ministries) is: the quality and
accessibility of multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS educational curricula and IEC material improved. This output
does not reflect the wide range of multi-sectoral interventions envisaged.           There is also only one
performance indicator for this component: by 2004, number of ministries/departments with a budget line
item for HIV/AIDS-related programs will increase. This indicator does not appear to be directly related to
either the output definition, or the underlying component activities. Third, a major defect in the key
performance indicators ­ particularly HIV/AIDS prevalence rates ­ is that they are not gender
disaggregated to reflect the major imbalance in impact between the sexes particularly for young people
(girls 15-19 years having 2-3 times prevalence rate of boys). The HIV/AIDS prevalence rate is also
influenced by mortality rates, and is no longer recommended for use as a primary indicator for HIV/AIDS
projects. At the time of project design, however, the use of prevalence as an indicator was common
practice.

Risks and mitigation measures. Three risks were identified as "high" at the component to output level:
(i) standard operating procedures on financial management and procurement would be poorly understood,
accepted and applied by coordinating agencies; (ii) legal mechanisms to protect vulnerable populations
would not be put in place; and (iii) the accountability and transparency of HIV/AIDS program management
may be insufficient. The third of these risks was particularly prescient, given the accusations of corruption
and mismanagement later levelled at NACC, and it has proven to be the greatest challenge to project
implementation. The mitigation measures put in place respectively were: (i) the use of the FMA; (ii)
special attention to these issues during the JAPR; and (iii) joint reviews by the NACC and partners. While
these mitigation measures were relevant, the recruitment of the FMA may be seen as a rather insufficient
response to the first risk, in view of (a) the corrupt environment of the country, and (b) the ambitiousness of
the strategy to support a very large number of local communities throughout the whole country.

Inappropriate focus on ACUs



                                                       - 4 -

Support to line ministries under Component 1 is focused on the AIDS Control Units (ACUs) in each
ministry. They were expected to be the initiator of strategic HIV/AIDS interventions in the sector, to be
financed under KHADREP. According to the PAD: ACUs will be expected to address, among other
issues, the manner in which HIV/AIDS has affected the quality and quantity of available services, the
ability to supply the required services, the organization of the sector, the role of service providers,
human resources policy and management practices, the planning and management of sector resources,
the availability of public and private resources for the sector, and also financial support to the sector
provided by both the Government of Kenya and the donor community. However, the expectation that
ACUs could fulfill this strategic role was rather unrealistic. Although there initially appeared to be a
degree of commitment to ACUs by the Government, in practice ACUs were not established as core
policy/planning units within ministries, but rather as semi-official appendages, staffed by relatively junior
officials who often had other full-time responsibilities. Real policy power, including the ability to initiate
and seek funding for HIV/AIDS related programs, lies with Permanent Secretaries and Central Policy Units
(CPU) of ministries. It is also closely linked to the budget setting/Mid-Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) process, which ACUs have little contact with or influence over.

Use of NACC as a grant-maker

KHADREP Component 3 was designed to channel money as grants to community-based projects and other
non-state HIV/AIDS interventions through the NACC structure, including (at that time) Provincial, District
and Constituency HIV/AIDS Control Committees (PACCs, DACCs and CACCs). Previous experience
with the STIP, and the KNASP, emphasized the need for increased resource transfers to communities to
raise awareness and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS. There was therefore a clear justification for
KHADREP to finance such grants. One argument for enabling NACC to provide grants was that it could
enhance its status and influence with civil society, and could strengthen engagement with communities. It
could also provide the opportunity to pilot innovative approaches to community mobilization, and help fill
gaps in the national response by targeting under-represented groups. However, this opportunity was not
exploited in the design of KHADREP, as there was no targeting of grants to specific groups or types of
intervention. During the design process, consideration could have been given to other mechanisms for
channelling funds to civil society, which would not have fallen directly under the management control of
NACC. It is not clear if these alternatives were considered at the design stage.

Overall the Project's quality at entry is considered Moderately Satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As noted earlier, the PDO was to intensify the multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS and accelerate the
process of achieving the targets set, as elaborated in the Kenyan National Strategic Plan with broad
participation of communities.     The PAD has two main targets relating to the prevalence of the disease.
The following are the main conclusions about the achievements of the KHADREP.

(i) The prevalence of HIV/AIDS dropped considerably during the project period. Indeed, the
specified targets were more than achieved, with prevalence dropping dramatically during the project
period. HIV prevalence among young people (15-24) reported in the 2003 KDHS was 6.0% against a
baseline estimate of 14%; and HIV prevalence among adults (15-49) reported in the 2003 KDHS was
6.7%, against a project target of 14%. Estimates in the Kenya HIV/AIDS Data Booklet (NACC December
2005) for 2004 show a total of 6.4% prevalence for this age group. However, as noted above, prevalence is
not a good indicator of progress in the fight against HIV/AIDS, as it measures a picture of the disease
accumulated over time. It is also affected by mortality rates and the survival time of those infected.




                                                     - 5 -

(ii) The incidence of the disease is a better indicator than prevalence, but it is difficult to monitor.
Although the available estimates for Kenya are still subject to debate, they seem to show that the
incidence of the disease is also dropping. Incidence is impractical to measure directly in the Kenya
context, and must be estimated from prevalence and other data. Estimates by UNAIDS Reported in The
Response to HIV/AIDS in Kenya: Outcomes and Impact, internal World Bank paper, Voetberg, 2005
suggests a reduction in the annual rate of new infections from 99,000 in 2001 to 86,000 in 2003. More
recent data reported in the Lancet (Has Global HIV Incidence Peaked? Shelton, Halperin and Wilson,
Lancet Online, 30 March 2006) suggest that incidence rates in Kenya are indeed in decline, with a reported
peak of 10% in 1999 falling to about 5% in 2005. However the 2005 Kenya HIV/AIDS Data Booklet
shows a gradual increase in incidence from 2001 through to 2004, with an estimated rate in 2004 of
120,000. Increasing incidence is not necessarily inconsistent with the reduction in prevalence, as the
death-rate among infected people has increased as the epidemic has matured. However, the substantial
reduction in prevalence among young people (15-24 years) who as a cohort are little affected by AIDS
deaths, would indicate a significant reduction in incidence for this group at least.

(iii) The intermediate outcome indicators (measured in the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey)
are better indicators of prevention progress, although not originally specified in the PAD. These
provide a similarly positive picture to the prevalence figures. For example, (a) median age at first sex
among women aged 20-49 increased from 16.7 years in 1998 to 17.8 years in 2003; (b) percentage of
unmarried women with more than one sexual partner has reduced from 4.9% in 1998 to 0.9% in 2003; (c)
percentage of unmarried men with more than one sexual partner has reduced from 29.4% in 1998 to 10.3%
in 2003; and (d) percentage using a condom at last higher-risk sex has increased from 15.1% in 1998 to
23.9% in 2003 for women, and from 42.5% to 46.5% over the same period for men. These are very
considerable achievements, even if attribution is very difficult to make.

(iv) It is very difficult to judge the extent to which the KHADREP contributed to these trends. This
is for four reasons. First, the available evidence suggests that the incidence of the disease was declining
even before the start of the KHADREP. Second, there was a lack of an effective programmatic M&E
system to measure the progress and assess the impact of key HIV/AIDS interventions, even though the
Kenya HIV/AIDS epidemic is one of the most comprehensively monitored in Africa (with good quality
information from sentinel surveillance sites, the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, and other sources
supports). In the project, it was decided to integrate M&E for the project with the national M&E
framework for the national HIV/AIDS response. This decision strengthened commitment to a coordinated
M&E framework for all HIV/AIDS interventions in Kenya, and is in line with the "Three Ones"
commitment. However, progress with a comprehensive, quantitative national M&E system under NACC's
leadership was extremely disappointing. As a result, progress monitoring for the KHADREP project
(together with other HIV/AIDS interventions in Kenya) was incomplete. Third, there were some serious
problems of implementation in carrying out the KHADREP, as noted later, with a slow start to the project
and major issues of governance in the selection of community activities supported. And fourth, besides
IDA there were other external sources of funding for the program (such as the DfID-supported HAPAC
project), and these increased in the second half of the KHADREP (partly leveraged and encouraged to do
so by the World Bank).

Overall, the achievement of project outcome objectives is deemed as Moderately Satisfactory. It is clear
that the two main project development indicators were (over) achieved, and that significant behavior change
occurred. However, there were major problems of implementation of the KHADREP-funded activities and
the extent of the contribution of the Project is very unclear.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Assessing component outputs is problematic, as no operational monitoring and evaluation system was



                                                      - 6 -

established to monitor systematically progress against performance indicators.




Component 1: Support to Line Ministries.             The output indicator specified in the PAD for this
component, was an increase by 2004 in the number of ministries/departments with an HIV/AIDS related
programme in their official GoK budgets.

On the positive side, there was an increase in the number of ACUs in the public sector from two in 2001 to
35 in 2005. The KHADREP disbursed support to a wide range of ministries and departments as shown in
the table below. This is excluding the various sub-ACUs for state corporations and departments under the
various ministries. The component target was met, with all ministries and large departments having a
budget-line for the operating costs of an ACU. Those ministries' budgets for HIV/AIDS increased from nil
to K sh 77 million ($1million) by the time the project was ending, and HIV/AIDS was mainstreamed into
the MTEF budget.      Training in peer counseling was carried out in some ministries, and most ministries
now have condom dispensers (and the utilization of condoms has increased significantly). In addition, some
major ministries developed policy documents for the sector e.g. Department for Personnel Management
(workplace policy for the public sector) and the Ministry of Transport (mapping of hot spots). The ACUs
also developed information and education materials; played a significant role in raising general awareness
within the public sector of HIV/AIDS issues; and paved the way for the more strategic mainstreaming
activities now underway. In total, K sh 500m was disbursed to the various ministries and department under
the KHADREP during the project period.

However, it would be wrong to rate this component as fully satisfactory, as measured against the PDO of
intensifying the multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS and accelerating the process of achieving the targets
set as elaborated in the Kenyan National Strategic Plan. As discussed above, there are serious weaknesses
in the capacity of ACUs to initiate strategic HIV/AIDS interventions. A DFID-funded review of ACUs in
2003 (Progress Review of the AIDS Control Unit, DFID HAPAC3 project, Futures Group, July 2003)
concluded that: (i) ACUs largely focussed on the internal rather than external domain; (ii) even with regard
to this internal focus, little progress had been made beyond general awareness raising ­ few had by then
developed official policies for care and support of People Living With HIV/AIDs (PLWHA) and their
families; (iii) few impact studies of HIV/AIDS on staffing levels had been conducted, and there was no
evidence of training and recruitment policies taking into account staff depletion rates and absenteeism; (iv)
progress had been made with developing sector-specific strategic plans for HIV/AIDS but these had not
been linked to core ministry strategies, were short on detail, and were poorly budgeted; (v) the linkages
between the ACUs and the national condom promotion and IEC strategies were weak; and (vi) little
progress had been made by ACUs with regard to care and support, or mitigation of socio-economic impact.
The review identified a lack of strategic influence of ACUs within ministries, and noted that this problem
was exacerbated by the lack of data from a working M&E system, with which to convince senior managers
of the needs for action. Although this review of ACUs was conducted nearly three years ago, follow-up
discussions suggest that the findings remain broadly correct.

In summary, the impact of ACUs has generally been limited to "internal mainstreaming" ­ i.e. prevention
initiatives for ministry staff ­ rather than on mainstreaming HIV/AIDS into core service delivery
programmes of line ministries. The KHADREP design should have identified the capacity of ACUs as a
risk to the project. The project also missed an opportunity for mainstreaming, by not linking Component 1
directly and explicitly with the budget/MTEF process.        Recent work by NACC under the new KNASP
2005-2010 to mainstream HIV/AIDS through these channels is proving quite successful. It is fair to note,
however, that the success of this recent initiative may, at least in part, be due to the ACUs having prepared
the ground (through internal mainstreaming) over the past 5 years. Component 1 is rated as Moderately


                                                     - 7 -

Satisfactory.


                   DISBURSEMENTS TO ACUS AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2005

                       AND ACCOUNTABILITY AS AT JANUARY 31, 2006

       AIDS CONTROL UNITS                                    TOTAL ADVANCES
     1 Agriculture and Rural Development                             25,972,426.00

     2 Environment & Natural Resources                               19,618,000.00

     3 Finance                                                        6,277,165.00

     4 Health                                                        31,460,410.00

     5 Office of the President                                       83,544,465.00

     6 Trade and Industry                                            12,724,819.00

     7 Foreign Affairs & International Co-operation                   7,306,071.00

     8 Office of the Attorney General                                10,095,020.00

     9 Transport                                                     21,957,379.00

    10 Local Government                                               7,386,700.00

    11 Education, Science & Technology                               33,786,286.00

    12 Vice President & Min. of Home Affairs                         21,292,314.00

    13 Lands & Settlement                                            13,593,950.00

    14 Labour & Human Resources                                      13,842,275.00

    15 Energy                                                        11,037,790.00

    16 Tourism and Wildlife                                          14,651,250.00

    17 Public Service Commission                                      4,060,109.00

    18 National Assembly                                              1,352,500.00

    19 Judiciary                                                      6,074,085.00

    20 Roads & Public Works                                          15,323,753.00

    21 Water Resources Management                                    12,934,251.00

    22 Gender Sports Culture and Social Services                      4,016,074.00

    23 Livestock & Fisheries Development                             28,245,070.00

    24 Department of Defence                                          5,225,200.00

    25 Commission for Higher Education                               22,634,658.00

    26 Co-operatives & Marketing                                      6,355,765.00

    27 Teachers Service Commission (TSC)                             12,499,253.00

    28 Police Department                                              5,967,400.00

    29 Administration Police                                          5,080,300.00

    30 Directorate or Personnel Management (DPM)                     13,237,728.00

    31 Planning                                                       2,198,864.00

    32 Justice                                                        4,667,750.00

    33 Information & Communication                                   12,893,994.00

    34 Kenya Medical Research Institute                               1,900,000.00

    35 E. Africa Regional Co-operation                                 710,000.00

       Total                                                        499,923,074.00



Component 2: Coordination of Programme by NACC and its Decentralized Entities. The programme
coordination component of KHADREP supported the development of NACC's institutional capacity.
Although NACC was conceived independently of KHADREP, the project was vital to NACC's existence.

It is clear that NACC made some very important achievements achieved during the period of the



                                                       - 8 -

KHADREP. In particular, the NACC promoted greater inter-sectoral coordination of the HIV/AIDS
response; it oversaw the development of policies in key areas, including orphans and vulnerable children
(OVC) and mainstreaming gender issues; and it played an instrumental role in attracting new sources of
funding for HIV/AIDS and in distributing grants to a variety of community and other organizations. More
specifically: (i) the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan was successfully launched in 2000, and the second
KNASP for 2005-2010 was later designed through a highly participatory process; (ii) the Joint AIDS
Programme Review (JAPR) process has been established, and five JAPR meetings have taken place (more
than any country in the Region); (iii) the JAPR is a highly effective joint review process for the national
response, directly linked to the KNASP, which brings together stakeholders from civil society, Government,
the private sector and development partners; (iv) coordination and networking structures have been
developed at the national and local levels, and progress has been made towards greater involvement of
People Living With HIV/AIDS; (v) the NACC has critically reviewed its own institutional structures, and a
major restructuring of NACC has been implemented which is substantially enhancing its capacity to
provide strategic leadership and coordination of the national response; and (vi) over the last couple of
years, there has been a fundamental change in the public perception of HIV/AIDS in Kenya, and there is
now much more public debate and openness about it.

However, the NACC faced major institutional challenges from the start of the Project. These included
various weaknesses in the operational structure of NACC which affected its ability to review and supervise
the actual allocation of grants and their use. In 2002 and 2003, there were: corruption charges leveled
against senior officials; political interference in the grant-making procedures; a general failure by the
NACC management to address fiduciary risks in the organization; and a perceived unwillingness to allow
and enable the Constituency AIDS Control Committees (CACCs) to function effectively at the peripheral
level. The NACC became the target of sustained criticism in the press, amidst accusations of lack of
transparency and inefficiency.     There were serious disagreements within Government, and between
Government and development partners, as to the appropriate institutional home for the organization.
Provincial and District HIV/AIDS Control Committees (PACCs and DACCs) which were key institutional
structures in the original NACC design, and the focus of KHADREP support, were abolished halfway
through the project period. There was also a widespread perception of undue and inappropriate influence
by MPs in the CACCs.

The NACC has also faced widespread accusations of corruption, mismanagement and improper
influence. These included: (i) detailed allegations of serious fraud at NACC have been made in the Kenya
media; (ii) a former NACC Director was prosecuted and found guilty of corruption; (iii) the NACC
Director from 2004-2006 was suspended pending investigation by the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission
of alleged fraud in the disbursement of KHADREP project funds in Nyanza; (iv) a special investigation by
the Government Efficiency Monitoring Unit (EMU) uncovered a wide range of accounting and management
irregularities; and (v) a governance review and forensic audit commissioned by the World Bank of
KHADREP concluded in 2005 that: significant fraud had taken place in the period 2002-2003, with
inappropriate influence in grant-making procedures, a general failure to manage fraud and other risks, and
limited oversight of NACC activities, procedures and functions. Then in 2006, a Detailed Implementation
Review (DIR) of the KHADREP concluded that the KHADREP Project had "strong indicators.... that
were consistent with potential fraud, corruption and collusion". The review of the NACC's internal
procurement found indicators of collusive practices, biased bid evaluation and fraud. The DIR Team's
financial management review also found severe weaknesses in the NACC's internal control environment,
accounting procedures, staff capacity and record keeping.         In addition, the DIR Team found strong
indicators of irregularities within the small number of KHADREP's grant-financed activities that it
reviewed. These are grave fraud and mismanagement problems. However, it should also be noted that the
degree of media and political attention focussed on NACC's failings has been unprecedented for a state
body in Kenya.       Indeed, NACC has been caught up in a much larger political struggle for control of


                                                     - 9 -

HIV/AIDS resources - both real and perceived - which has created an incentive to "fling mud". In any
event, the Government and the Bank have agreed a detailed point-by-point action plan to address the issues
raised in the forensic audit and the DIR report; and the NACC is now implementing it systematically and
efficiently.

In conclusion, the NACC achieved a considerable amount during the KHADREP period. The World
Bank's support to NACC was generally very constructive. Exercised jointly with other development
partners and stakeholders, it has enabled the NACC in 2006/2007 to emerge from its major institutional
problems as a substantially strengthened institution. However, this transformation of the NACC was
largely achieved at the end of the KHADREP period, and in the subsequent year following the closure of
the project. Notwithstanding the achievements which were made and the recent substantial progress
(especially since the end of the KHADREP), component 2 is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.



Component 3: Community Initiatives.

The Community Initiative Account Grant Program (CIAGP) financed under KHADREP enabled NACC to
provide grants at the local, regional and national levels to civil society and non-Governmental organizations
for HIV/AIDS related projects. About 6,000 grants were approved under the CIAGP, totalling about K sh
3 billion (or roughly two thirds of the KHADREP funds). In judging the KHADREP as a whole, it is
therefore very important to assess the impact of this component in particular. Again, it is critical that this
component be assessed against the purpose of the project (vis. "to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, to
mitigate the socio-economic impact of the disease, and to increase access to care and support for people
infected or affected by the HIV AIDS epidemic in Kenya").

The first issue is to show what was done with the money. The following three tables show respectively
the distribution of activities around the country, the main types of implementing partners and the primary
activities financed. Not surprisingly, the highest usage of funds regionally was in Nyanza, in view of high
prevalence of HIV/AIDS and population density in that part of the country. Nor are the other proportions
of allocations between provinces particularly surprising. In terms of breakdown by level of activity, the
high proportion (over 90 percent) allocated at the CACC level is also appropriate in view of the objectives
of the project. The picture emerging from the second table shows that three quarters of the grants were
spent by community-based organizations, and another 17 percent by non-government organizations. Only
two percent was spent by the private sector, and seven percent by faith-based organizations. And in terms
of the types of activities undertaken, two thirds of the funding was spent on preventive activities, with a
further one quarter spent on mitigation of the epidemic. Having about two-thirds of the funding addressing
preventive activities is consistent with the primary indicators of the PDO being focussed on the prevalence
rate. In line with the objectives as stated in the DCA, one quarter of the grants were directed towards the
mitigation of the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS.




                                                     - 10 -

                                                  COMMUNITY INITIATIVE ACCOUNT
                                         NUMBERS OF ACTIVITIES BY PROVINCE AND LEVEL
              Central      Coast     Eastern    Nairobi   North Eastern  Nyanza     North Rift South Rift  Western
              Province   Province    Province  Province     Province     Province   Province    Province   Province
 CACC             835         289        758        259           431       1,188         416        507       793
 DACC               27          36         49         33           20          58           31         42        32
 PACC               11           5         1        110              7          4            1          2        3
 NACC              -           -          -          -            -           -            -          -         -
 TOTAL            873          330       808         402          458       1,250          448       551        828
                14.5%         5.5%     13.4%        6.7%         7.6%       20.7%        7.4%       9.1%     13.7%




   NUMBERS AND AMOUNTS BY TYPE OF IMPLEMENTING PARTNER

TYPE OF PROJECT                                    Number           Kshs.        %

COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS                         5,438    1,880,183,725    74%
FAITH BASED ORGANIZATIONS                               280      187,289,434      7%
NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS                          299      421,069,769    17%
PRIVATE SECTOR BASED ORGANIZATIONS                       19       42,737,375      2%
TOTAL                                                 6,036    2,531,280,303 100%



NUMBERS AND AMOUNTS OF ACTIVITIES BY TYPE OF ACTIVITY
                                                     Amount     Prop. of Total
                                               K.Sh. Million                %
Prevention and advocacy                               1673.5           66.1%
Treatment, care and support                            180.2             7.1%
Mitigation of socio-economic impact                    665.7           26.3%
monitoring, evaluation and research                     11.9             0.5%
                                                      2531.3          100.0%


The second issue is to try to assess what was achieved through these activities. As noted earlier, there
were major behavioral changes during the KHADREP period, but the key question is the extent to which
these developments were due to the KHADREP interventions. Unfortunately, this is almost impossible to
conclude due to the lack of an adequate program monitoring system in the NACC. However, four points
may be made.

First, most stakeholders (Government, civil society and development partners) believe that the KHADREP
contributed substantially to declining HIV/AIDS incidence and prevalence over the past five years, despite
the governance problems that it faced, noting that the KHADREP provided the framework and initially
most of the financing for the HIV/AIDS Program. Although there is now considerable support from other
sources of funds for the HIV/AIDS program, this was not the case when the KHADREP was launched.

Second, despite the lack of an effective M&E system to measure the impact of KHADREP interventions,
there was a "Lot Quality Assessment Sampling (LQAS) study" undertaken in Western Kenya by the Global
Aids Monitoring and Evaluation Team (GAMET) in 2004, and it provides some additional insights. The
study sought to measure, through targeted surveys, community perceptions of the effectiveness of
HIV/AIDS interventions. The study analyzed results between constituencies that received KHADREP



                                                  - 11 -

grants and those that did not. The initial results suggest no significant difference between constituencies
receiving grants and those which did not, except possibly with regard to orphan support (orphans tended to
be better fed in constituencies receiving grants). These results are intriguing, but they should not be taken
as definitive for many reasons. For example, the apparent lack of difference in results on some of the
indicators (including those for preventative behavior) could be a sign that the interventions were targeted to
the most problematic areas, and that they were successful in raising conditions in those areas to the levels
of the better-off areas elsewhere. The LQAS approach is now being rolled out to the rest of the country
and will be useful for monitoring and evaluating future program activities.

Third, during the ICR, a brief independent review was undertaken by the ICR consultant of CIAGP
recipients. 50 recipients were selected at random from the master list of all grants, and site visits were
attempted for 20 of these in Nairobi, Central and Eastern Provinces. Successful visits were made to 14
recipients (the 6 not visited were because of transport and security difficulties in Eastern Province; in no
case was a sampled recipient found not to exist). Although this is a small sample it has the virtue of being
entirely independent in its selection from influence by NACC, the CACCs or the FMA. In all 14 cases, the
recipients appeared to be bona-fide organizations, meeting a genuine need in their communities. All
recipients confirmed that they had received the money which the FMA's records showed to have been sent
to them. No recipient admitted to having made any additional payment to obtain a grant, or to have
suffered discrimination in the application process; though several claimed to know of other examples where
this has occurred. Community initiatives included awareness raising seminars, training-of-trainers, condom
distribution, direct financial support for orphans (food and school costs) and income generating schemes.
The ICR consultant met direct beneficiaries. The impression was generally very positive: of very small
amounts of money, well targeted, making a real difference to the lives of very vulnerable people locally.
The main concerns of recipient organizations regarded the sustainability of the support provided. Of
course, this survey was very small and subjective. It did not in any sense constitute a formal review of the
CIAGP. But it does suggest that the programme has considerable strengths, which may not be reflected in
the LQAS methodology.

Fourth, there is no doubt that some of the CIAs were plagued by governance and corruption problems, but
there are widely disparate views about the extent of such problems. This is for two main reasons: (i) one
definitional, and (ii) numerical. Regarding the former, for example, definitions range from "convicted
fraud" to "apparent irregularities". The latter could include administrative errors due to poor accounting
and lack of capacity, and honest mistakes. Regarding the latter, none of the investigations have been based
on full-scale representative samples: the EMU Report was based on the administrative records of the
NACC; the DIR report investigated only 53 grants (of these, 23 were initially identified as having
indicators of irregularities, with the other 30 activities identified from further work done or "leads"); and
the NACC itself investigated about 130 suspected fraud/complaints cases (of the total, 33 have been
referred to CID, 11 have been referred to the KACC, five are currently in court, 51 have been found to be
baseless, 22 are pending and nine NGOs have been black-listed). These latter numbers, combined with the
findings of the ICR consultant, suggest that the extent of outright fraud may have been a small proportion
of the total. However, this does not mean that there may not have been a significant amount of influence
brought to bear on the selection of CIAs for funding.

In conclusion, it would seem fair to argue that the support provided to community initiatives through
the KHADREP probably did help to "break the silence" on HIV/AIDS in Kenya, but the extent of
the impact is extremely hard to gauge. Projects were financed in districts throughout the whole of
Kenya; and the most likely reason for the disparity between the LQAS findings and the impressions gained
during the ICR field visits, is that the CIAGP funds were very small compared with the total needs, and
hence may have had little measurable impact across communities as a whole, despite benefiting individual
needy recipients. Other possible causes for the apparent lack of impact of the CIAGP include: lack of



                                                     - 12 -

capacity at community level to design and implement effective sustainable projects; inappropriate
involvement of local politicians in influencing project approval at the CACC level, undermining wider
credibility within the community; lack of guidance by NACC on preferred interventions (a "positive list")
limiting the impact in some key areas (for example prevention efforts targeted at girls); and three times as
many projects being approved as there were funds available, resulting in delayed disbursements and a large
unsatisfied demand, which undermined community morale and damaged the perception of the NACC.

Finally, it is worth commenting on the wider aspects of the CIA component. First, the grants were
made under the auspices of NACC, even though an independent Financial Management Agent was rightly
appointed to process and account for grant monies. In practice, the grant-making by the NACC distracted
to some extent from its core strategic, policy and coordination role: it consumed an excessive amount of
senior management time; it exacerbated political interference; and it led to very negative publicity. In
short, the NACC and CACCs may have focussed disproportionately on KHADREP type grants, at the
expense of helping stakeholders access other sources of funds.         In addition, opportunities to target
resources at specific high-risk groups were not taken, and learning opportunities as to what types of
interventions worked best have been lost, due to the absence of an effective M&E system. Nevertheless,
despite these criticisms, Component 3 succeeded in transferring significant resources to communities in a
reasonably well structured and mostly accountable manner. And there is indirect evidence that the grants
did indeed intensify the multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS and accelerate the process of achieving the
targets set, as elaborated in the National Strategic Plan with broad participation of communities.
Component 3 is therefore rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As noted earlier, the NACC went through a turbulent period during the KHADREP. Nevertheless, it is
now firmly established as the "one national coordinating body" for HIV/AIDS in Kenya in line with the
"Three Ones" principles.     The perception of NACC by civil society organizations ­ who have been the
most vocal critics of mismanagement and fraud ­ has recently changed dramatically. For example, in
recent Global Fund negotiations, civil society suggested that "the new NACC" should become the principle
recipient of Global Fund grants (this step is not recommended by this ICR ­ but demonstrates a vote of
confidence in NACC). Recent work led by NACC to mainstream HIV/AIDS in the Government budget
cycle and MTEF has resulted in a much increased profile for HIV/AIDS in core governance processes.
The substantial improvement in the institutional performance of the NACC has been confirmed by an
external evaluation, as the NACC is subject to a performance evaluation annually carried out by the
Inspectorate of State Corporations.    The NACC has shown significant improvement over the past year
(2005/06) in governance and capacity, with the NACC assessed at a high level in 2006 (a score of 2.4,
rating "very good"). Interestingly, much of the strengthening of the NACC continued after the end of the
KHADREP period.

Despite the many challenges faced, it is clear that the KHADREP had a substantial institutional
development impact with regard to reform and capacity building of the NACC, and the development of the
annual JAPR process in particular.     This positive impact was partly due to the active engagement and
support provided by the Bank country team. Working together with other donor partners, the Bank team
was able to have a direct positive influence in the development of the institutional infrastructure of the
national response in Kenya. This influence went beyond what could be achieved within a narrowly


                                                   - 13 -

project-focused "task manager" role.

The institutional development impact is rated as Substantial overall.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Change of Government: The change of Government following the 2003 elections created a new political
dynamic within Kenya.         Although there was no fundamental change of Government policy towards
HIV/AIDS, the emergence of new power relationships had to be accommodated within the project which
created some delays. On the positive side, it encouraged a more vigorous investigation into the accusations
of governance and corruption, and facilitated the DIR process to proceed.

Increasing death rate: The annual number of adult HIV-related deaths increased significantly during the
project period; the Kenya HIV/AIDS Data Booklet estimates a rate of 105,000 in 2004, double the rate in
1998. The increased death rate is attributable to the maturing of the epidemic, combined with the limited
availability of ART.       The high death rate impacted the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate among the adult
population.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Corruption and fraud: corrupt and fraudulent practices by Government officials, as identified in the
EMU report, the forensic audit and the DIR report, were a major constraint on Project progress.
Regardless of the actual extent of corruption, the widespread public perception of NACC and the
HIV/AIDS programme as being corrupt and self-serving seriously undermined the national response.

Power politics: the HIV/AIDS mandate is seen as prestigious, powerful and very well funded. On several
occasions during the course of the project, the question of the location within the Government of the
ultimate responsibility for HIV/AIDS became a divisive issue. The Bank and donor partners strongly
argued for NACC to be a multi-sectoral agency, located ­ and budgeted for - within the Office of the
President.    Others within Government believed that the Ministry of Health should be responsible.
Considerable time and effort was expended ­ including at the highest levels ­ seeking resolution of these
institutional issues; efforts which could have been better spent addressing the epidemic. On balance, it is
felt that the KHADREP helped the Government and the HIV/AIDS program generally to settle this issue
appropriately.

Delay in launching KNASP 2005-2010: although only impacting on KHADREP at the very end of the
project, the delay in the official launching of the new national HIV/AIDS strategy was symptomatic of the
political infighting which characterized the management of the national response in Kenya. The KNASP
has subsequently been launched by the President.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The institutional capacity of the NACC to implement the KHADREP project ­ and to coordinate the
national response ­ was initially very weak. Inadequate numbers of suitably qualified and capable staff; a
dysfunctional organizational structure; and a risk-averse bureaucratic management culture severely
handicapped NACC's ability to provide credible, strategic leadership. To its credit, NACC recognized
these shortcomings; and with the support of the KHADREP and other donors, undertook a fundamental
institutional review, followed by root-and-branch reform in 2004/2005. This reform has now largely been
implemented, and has included the replacement of all senior managers through a competitive selection
process.




                                                     - 14 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
In general, there were no major issues relating to the costs of the Project. In particular, counterpart funds
were made available as necessary.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
There are two main aspects of sustainability for the KHADREP: the sustainability of the individual CIAs
and the future of the NACC itself.

Regarding the individual CIAs, the KHADREP helped the NACC and the Government to mobilize different
sectors, mass organizations and communities to increase their capacity to respond to the demands of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. It is believed that much of the social, sectoral and community capacity built with the
KHADREP Project contributions will be sustained, although this will depend partly on the nature of the
individual activities. For example, the sustainability of projects supporting the feeding and care of orphans
would probably be less certain of sustainability than HIV/AIDS preventive activities. Also, the feedback
from the selected beneficiaries to the ICR consultant emphasized that sustainability was an issue to many
of them. Since the middle of the KHADREP implementation period, there has been increased support from
other external partners, such as the GFATM and PEPFAR.                   Ultimately, however, the financial
sustainability of the HIV/AIDS program rests with Kenya's own ability to: (i) increase domestic resource
allocations for HIV/AIDS and health; and (ii) further reduce new HIV infections.             NACC and its
stakeholders are currently discussing ways to put in place a sustainable and harmonized financing
framework for all HIV/AIDS Programs in Kenya, and thus to safeguard the gains made in the national
response to HIV/AIDS in the country. Key issues now being addressed include: (i) mobilization and
harmonization of financing to ensure that all KNASP priority interventions are efficiently addressed; (ii)
ensuring medium and long term plans are in place and resources set aside to minimize stock-outs of key
inputs; (iii) mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS into all sectors and ensuring more funding of KNASP priorities
by the Government and other sources through the MTEF Budget Process; (iv) streamlining financial flows
and strengthening financial management systems/structures to ensure available funds are absorbed for
intended purposes; and (vi) ensuring appropriate mechanisms are in place for monitoring a mainstreamed
harmonized response which includes all stakeholders. The sustainability of the program is also being
reviewed with stakeholders annually as part of the JAPR process. This bodes well for the sustainability of
the investments supported through the KHADREP.

Regarding the institutional capacity of NACC to coordinate the national response, it needs to be
remembered that it was very weak in the early years of the KHADREP. However, it is also clear that the
NACC is already a substantially strengthened institution, and one that has survived and indeed gone
forward even since the end of the KHADREP in December 2005 (prior to the approval of additional IDA
resources). This does bode well for its sustainability in the future.

Finally, regarding the ACUs, the picture is reasonably encouraging. Starting in October 2005, NACC, in
collaboration with key partners, began the process of advocating for greater involvement in and
commitment to the national HIV/AIDS response from within the Government of Kenya. This engagement
was initially framed in the context of engagement in Kenya's budget process, the MTEF, in order to solicit
for additional funds for HIV/AIDS activities in the various sectors and ministries of the Kenyan public
sector. Over time, more emphasis was placed on the formulation of ministerial strategies to respond to
HIV/AIDS and the development of appropriate strategies to fight the epidemic. Coupled together, the focus
on planning, strategy development and subsequent budgeting of those plans and strategies in the MTEF
process is expected to help achieve long-term sustainability of the HIV/AIDS response in Kenya..

For these reasons it is felt that the Project is likely to be sustained.



                                                        - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
[Issues addressed in 6.1 above]


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted earlier, the design of the KHADREP was done under a very fast timetable, and the task team was
given a performance award for the work done.          The Bank already had sufficient experience of the
HIV/AIDS national response in Kenya through the STIP project. The Bank responded quickly to the
request from the Government to support a scaled-up multi-sectoral response, led by the newly created
NACC, to counter the disastrous progress of the epidemic. The PAD sets out a clear justification for the
three project components, and the project did not contravene any of the Bank's safeguard policies.
However, there were some weaknesses in the definition of outputs and performance indicators in the Project
Design Summary, including failure to adequately address gender impact. The project design also failed to
address some important and foreseeable risks to implementation, notably that (i) NACC was a very weak
institution and lacked capability to implement the KHADREP efficiently and accountably; (ii) ACUs would
be unable to meet the strategic role assigned to them; and (iii) that channelling grant funds through NACC
would distract it from its strategic coordination function, and make it prey to political power plays.
Despite these criticisms, it is judged that the Bank's performance during identification, preparation and
appraisal of the KHADREP was Satisfactory.


7.2 Supervision:
The project supervision featured a number of positive characteristics:

(i) The supervision process was largely conducted by and from the Country Office, especially in the period
up to 2004. This had both advantages and disadvantages (see below). On the positive side, this meant that
there were considerable exchanges and informal contacts on a continuous basis between the NACC and the
Bank staff. This was also appreciated by partner organizations.

(ii) The Bank did not compromise on the need for the NACC to have an FMA prior to the start of the CIAs,
despite the pressures to move forward. This is regarded as having been an appropriate position.

(iii) The task team decided not to suspend disbursements when the decentralized structures of the NACC
were disbanded for political reasons. Again, this is considered to have been the right decision, as it proved
possible still to go forward with new institutional arrangements, despite the difficulties involved.
Suspension would not have been in the interest of the fight against the epidemic.

(iv) The task team "pushed forward" with the NACC on the very sensitive issues of governance and
corruption, including with the forensic audit and the DIR, especially during the last two years of the
Project. This enabled the program to address some deep-rooted issues and to help the institution to move
forward into a new mode of operations.

(v) The first part of the ICR process was done early so that the lessons of experience could be fed into the
design of the follow-up Project (the "TOWA").

However, there were also some weak features of the supervision process.

(i) There were fewer discrete "missions" with accompanying reporting and formal stock-taking, than would
normally happen. There was also no mid-term project review. It is therefore difficult to assess the
measures that were, or were not, taken by the Bank to help the NACC to address the issues that it faced



                                                   - 16 -

during the implementation of the project.

(ii) During the course of implementation, few of the output level indicators in the project design summary
were tracked on a regular basis (see Annex 1).

(iii) The enhanced focus on governance issues especially in the last two years of the project In the
circumstances was necessary, but it was at the cost of more technical support and monitoring of impact.

(iv) The final processing of the ICR was delayed significantly, although this was partly due to the later than
expected arrival of the DIR report and the need to allow the Government and the NACC to review it in
detail.

Overall, the consistent feedback from the Government to the Bank management was that they were in this
project "together". While this is a truism for all Bank-supported projects, there was an enhanced sense in
the KHADREP that the Government and the NACC were in "unchartered waters" (for example, in the role
of civil society in the community initiatives) and that they were therefore particularly reliant on the Bank
for guidance. There was (and is) a strong sense on the client's side that the Bank needs to share in any
negative judgements, to the extent that the implementation of the project by the client was less than
satisfactory. On balance, the Bank's supervision performance is therefore considered to be Moderately
Unsatisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Given the pressure to prepare the Project in a short time period, and the changing requirements for Board
presentation (from Technical Annex to full PAD), the performance of the Borrower during preparation
was of a high standard. The Government provided a team of appropriately qualified professionals drawn
from the Government itself and civil society, and they were fully dedicated to the task. In addition, the
Head of Civil Service, in whose docket the preparation of the project was accommodated, as well as the
Treasury and the Auditor General, provided substantial support.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government provided a broadly satisfactory enabling environment for the implementation of the
KHADREP. The first national strategy was launched, and Government made a clear commitment to a
multi-sectoral approach to fighting the epidemic.     President Kibaki featured prominently in the national
IEC campaign. However, as noted earlier, there were several Government-related factors that militated
against the efficient implementation of the KHADREP. One of these was the fraud which was perpetrated,
although the extent of this is unclear, and the Government itself commissioned its own internal investigation
(the EMU report), even before high-level concern was expressed from outside. Another factor was the
power politics, and the political pressures for the NACC to be moved under the Ministry of Health.
Considerable time and effort was expended in dealing with this issue, before it was decided finally that the
NACC should stay under the Office of the President.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
As noted earlier, the NACC achieved a great deal during the course of the KHADREP.                     These
achievements included: its maintenance and institutional growth, including at the national, district and
constituency levels; the building up of the public sector programs, even if primarily for internal rather than



                                                    - 17 -

external mainstreaming purposes; the encouragement of political support (while trying to protect itself from
undue political interference); and the development of some excellent partnerships with civil society and
donors.

At the same time, the NACC faced some serious issues of institutional weaknesses and governance during
the period of the KHADREP, and addressing these issues took up considerable time and attention of the
Government, the NACC and the Bank task team. Since 2003/2004, a series of reviews and special audits,
conducted by and with the full cooperation of the Government, identified a range of problems in the NACC.
The first major investigation was by the Efficiency Monitoring Unit (EMU) of the Office of the President,
and its report noted serious irregularities in the implementation of the KHADREP, including instances of
both negligence and clearly fraudulent practices in financial management, procurement, payment of
allowances to staff and consultants, and in the award and management of grants. Then in April 2005, the
Government itself commissioned an independent Forensic Audit to verify the situation.                The report
identified evidence of malfeasance and serious shortcomings in the governance and control environment in
the KHADREP, but also pointed out that the high fraud risks identified were not in major procurements
(which were closely supervised by the Bank), but in the management of small grants and the operations of
the NACC itself.     Then in 2006, the Detailed Implementation Review (DIR) by the World Bank's
Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) confirmed the findings of the earlier forensic audit by
identifying significant indications of fraud and corruption, including misuse of fund administered by the
NACC. The findings also included faulty accounting practices, lack of fraud risk management, weak
oversight, inconsistent application of the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines, and failure to share
lessons learned and best practices.

Although much progress has now been made by NACC to address these weaknesses, they significantly
hindered NACC's ability to implement KHADREP effectively during the first three years of the Project.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered Moderately Unsatisfactory. However, performance did
improve significantly towards the end of the Project period.


8. Lessons Learned

There are several major lessons to be learned from the KHADREP.

Program Coordination. KHADREP support to NACC has been essential for the progress which has been
achieved, and support should be continued under the planned new Project (TOWA). Future support should
also be linked to the full implementation of NACC's institutional restructuring plan, and NACC's delivery
of the specific results outlined in the KNASP 2005-2010 results framework. The TOWA support to the
NACC should promote sustainability, and the Government should finance an increasing share of NACC's
non-wage operating costs. The TOWA Project support for NACC's decentralized entities (specifically the
CACCs) should be better defined, and there should be a more limited role for Members of Parliament in
influencing CACC decisions, particular those relating to CACC membership and resource allocation. The
general lesson for other projects and countries is that there is indeed need for such organizations as the
NACC to play a coordinating and strategic role in addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but that careful
attention needs to be given to issues of institutional strengthening and sustainability, and to the definition of
respective roles and responsibilities of the various stakeholders in the organization.

Public Sector Programs. The emphasis of the work of the AIDS Control Units (ACUs) has been on the
"internal domain". They have focused with some success on raising the general awareness of HIV/AIDS



                                                      - 18 -

within the public sector, and expanding access to VCT and related services for public workers. However,
with a few exceptions (such as the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology), the ACUs have had
limited impact in the critical "external" domain: the services provided by the public sector, rather than its
internal management.       The difficulties faced by ACUs are institutional, the result of them not being
sufficiently strategic or influential. As a consequence, the TOWA should support a small number of key
sectors (prioritized under the KNASP) with a major external mainstreaming effort, focused on strategic
entry-points; i.e. central planning and policy units and the MTEF/budget process ­ rather than through
ACUs. The general lesson for other projects and countries is for attention to be paid to both the internal
and the external domains of public sector programs

Civil Society Programs. The role of the financial management agent (FMA) and the arrangements to
mitigate concerns about inappropriate selection of projects and "briefcase NGOs" should be strengthened.
The grant approval and management process should be separated as far as possible from other
NACC/CACC functions, and opportunities for political interference should be minimized. A positive list
should be developed to encourage the funding of specific vulnerable groups, who are under-supported from
other sources (e.g. girls, MSM, IDUs, CSWs). Consideration could be given to have support provided to
beneficiaries for longer durations of time. There is also need for support to be made available for technical
capacity building for community groups, alongside grants. The feasibility should be considered of reducing
transaction costs and streamlining administration, by pooling funds with other community grant initiatives
such as that under the Global Fund. The M&E of impact of community initiatives should be strengthened
and should be linked to the roll out of the LQAS methodology. The general lesson for other projects and
countries is that FMAs may be needed to provide financial management services and to strengthen
fiduciary systems, but the mitigation of risks at the local level may require additional measures of social
accountability and verification too. A high level of vigilance is required to ensure that verification systems
are sufficiently robust to protect against potential concerns of inappropriate selection of projects.

Monitoring and Evaluation. The lack of an effective programmatic M&E has made it difficult to quantify
the impact of the KHADREP.             The TOWA Project should provide substantial support for the
operationalisation of the national M&E framework, including both epidemiological and programmatic
indicators. It also should provide resources for essential supporting systems and for strengthening the
NACC's role in coordinating M&E and sharing M&E data among all the various donors and implementers.
More broadly, both in Kenya and elsewhere, it is critical for future interventions against HIV/AIDS to be
based on improved understanding of the drivers of the disease, ensuring that the key drivers are addressed
comprehensively with appropriate interventions and adequate resources. This requires a strengthened
capacity and systems. In addition, enhanced use should be made of the JAPR process to ensure that
interventions are strategic and guided by maximum sharing of information, the latest epidemiological data
and participatory analysis of evolving priorities. Again, this is a lesson that applies not only to Kenya, but
more generally to other countries fighting the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

Management and Governance. The KHADREP experience shows that the NACC needs leadership that is
creative, results-based, effective in communications, collaborative and with complete integrity. In addition
to the specific investments needed in such areas as financial management strengthening, internal oversight
and audit, and the development of a fiduciary risk management policy, strengthening local decision-making,
monitoring and accountability at the central and local levels, communications, it is also critically important
that the newly recruited senior staff at the NACC should be trained and supported to enable them to
function effectively. The recently introduced performance contracts also now provide an opportunity for an
increased emphasis on the achievement of results and the strengthening of governance and accountability.
More broadly, the experience of the KHADREP demonstrates that there is always likely to be a danger of
governance problems arising in programs which are supporting activities over a very wide geographical


                                                      - 19 -

 area, and that a well-functioning coordinating agency such as the NACC is needed to manage efficiently, as
 well as to lead strategically.

 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
     RE: THE REACTION TO THE ICR BY THE NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL
     COUNCIL

Many thanks for sharing with the NACC the ICR dated April 13, 2007. We have reviewed the ICR
in its entirety and would like to make the following observations in accordance with the content
and numerical arrangement of the text.

1.       Project Data

            No Changes

2.       Principal Performance Ratings

            Outcome:                                      Satisfactory
            Sustainability:                               Highly Likely
            Institutional Development Impact:             Substantial
            Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
            Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory
            Quality of Entry:                             Satisfactory
            Project at Risk at Any Time:                           Yes

3.       Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry

            Overall, the Project's quality at entry should be considered Satisfactory given the HIV
            and AIDS crisis in Kenya that led to it being declared a national disaster, the largely
            popular and useful decision to align support in tandem with the Government ­ led
            national response and the envisaged impact in mobilizing all communities at the
            grassroots to combat the scourge.

4.       Achievements of Objective and Outputs

            Overall, the project outcome objective was quite Satisfactorily achieved using the
            intermediate outcome indicators captured in the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey
            in 2003 and subsequently estimated as indicated in the Kenya HIV and AIDS Data
            Booklet from the NACC by the close of the KHADREP in December, 2005. This was
            despite having a relatively weak Monitoring and Evaluation System compared to the
            current (2007) status.

            Component 1: Support to Line Ministries




                                                    - 20 -

     A review of the operations of NACC and stakeholders has pointed towards a lack of
     capacity, misunderstanding of roles and responsibilities and limited support to ACUs by
     Senior Ministerial Personnel as the genesis of relatively poor performance by ACUs.
     Component 1 should       be rated as Satisfactory given the inherent project design
     weakness in expecting inadequately prepared Line Ministries and ACUs to achieve more
     than "internal mainstreaming" of HIV and AIDS into core service delivery.

     Component 2: Coordination of Programme by NACC and its Decentralized Entities

     This Component should be rated Marginally Satisfactory given the fact that the NACC
     started its operations with a lot of haphazardly seconded staff who could have been
     performing tasks unrelated to their training and skill sets.

     Component 3: Community Initiatives

     This component should be rated Satisfactory despite all the perceived difficulties
     encountered in operating the Community Initiative Account. Funds were disbursed by
     FMA to 6,036 NGOs/CBOs/FBOs. Official complaints of suspected fraud were made
     against 131 groups representing approximately 2.2% of the total number of funded
     groups. The total amount of money involved in these complaints was approximately
     Ksh 62 million out of the disbursed amount to these groups of Ksh 2.5 billion
     representing about 0.25% of the disbursed funds. Despite the fact that many civil
     society groups (NGOs/CBOs/FBOs) were funded, these groups never understood the
     role of NACC and its Decentralized Entities under KHADREP as shown by the recently
     concluded Customer Satisfaction Survey (NACC, 2006). This is an area where NACC
     and strategic stakeholders must address before the TOWA Project becomes effective.

     The Institutional development impact should be rated overall, as Substantial and
     Promising particularly, after having captured all the lessons learnt from KHADREP in
     the TOWA Project Design.

5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

     The present government has made a commendable effort in spearheading the fight
     against HIV and AIDS. These include enactment of the HIV and AIDS Prevention and
     Control Act 2006, The Sexual Offences Act 2006 and enforcement of various
     Anti-corruption Legislation.

     The NACC has been completely restructured and both the senior and middle
     management staff competitively hired using a skill-based recruitment approach. The
     government has introduced Performance based management system and marginally
     increased the recurrent budget for NACC.

6.  Sustainability

     This is very highly likely as evidenced by efforts made by the Government in


                                           - 21 -

            mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in sector budgets and development partners pooling
            funds to finance M & E, JAPR, OVC, Prevention Initiatives, Commodities and ART.

7.       Bank and Borrower Performance

            Overall Bank Performance              ­       Satisfactory
            Overall Borrower Performance          ­       Satisfactory

8.       Lessons Learnt

            Many lessons learned from the KHADREP in areas such as programme coordination,
            public and private sector programmes, effective engagement with a variety of civil
            society groups, monitoring and evaluation, strategic leadership, management and
            governance have been extremely valuable. A bold attempt has been and continues to be
            made to address them including some checks and balances already captured in the
            TOWA Project and the overall programmatic support for the KNASP 2005/6 ­
            2009/10.

            There are nevertheless some existing challenges that the NACC must continue to
            address. These include sustainability of funding from both local and external sources to
            support KNASP, harmonization and alignment of all available support for KNASP,
            strategic leadership in coordination and programme management and the practice of risk
            based management at the NACC secretariat and the decentralized entities.

Prof. Alloys S. S. Orago
DIRECTOR


 (b) Cofinanciers:

     UNAIDS VIEWS ON KHADREP PROJECT

     `Thumbs up'

     l The World Bank was the first institution to provide huge financial resources to support Kenya HIV
         Response ­ the move provided for an opportunity to highlight the severity of HIV epidemic and its
         impact on Kenya and the significance of a political and Government leadership in the multi-sectoral
         response through the support for the establishment of the NACC institution. KHADREP has also
         provided for a basis for learning what works and what does not work in multi-sectoral response
         and these lessons have proved useful in the design of the next phase of the response especially in
         the harmonization agenda
     l KHADREP Community Initiative component provided opportunity for CSO to receive grants
         hence provided an opportunity for scale-up community level responses which is critical to the
         success of any response.

     Challenges

     Although KHADREP supported the establishment of key institutions and community response, the



                                                   - 22 -

    delay in receiving the TOWA has had serious implications. Institutions like the NACC have had to
    look for resources elsewhere to support their operations which have almost ground to a halt, meaning
    serious delays in major processes and slow gradual shut down of the initiatives that mushroomed
    during the availability of KHADREP. It will take significant resources to jump start all these processes
    and initiatives. For instance it has taken over a year of NACC secretariat time to prepare and get ready
    to receive the TOWA.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

    KANCO VIEWS ON KHADREP PROJECT

    The KHADREP project was established in Kenya at the time HIV prevalence was at the peak at 14%.
    The approach to HIV & AIDS response was from health perspective rather than multi-sectoral under
    the STI project managed by NASCOP. Collaboration among various stakeholders was low and there
    was no much political goodwill. The project was to support implementation of the Kenya National
    Strategic Plan 2000 ­ 2005 which had three principle objectives. These are: (i) Reducing HIV
    prevalence in Kenya by 20 to 30 percent among people aged 15 to 24 years; (ii) Increasing access to
    care and support for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS in Kenya; and (iii) Strengthening
    response capacity and coordination at all levels.

    HIV prevalence. The country has observed a downward trend in HIV prevalence having dropped
    from 14% in the 2000 to 7% by 2005. This has been contributed by the concerted efforts among
    various stakeholders with coordination from NACC. However this may not be wholly attributed to the
    sole effort of the KHADREP project. Other interventions from other agents like the civil society also
    contributed to this.

    Access to care and support. Provision of Care and support has been the responsibility of the Ministry
    of Health which has been instrumental in providing treatment while the Ministry of Home Affairs has
    supported OVC. CSOs including CBOs and FBOs have taken the bigger burden of providing care at
    the community and family level. Under the KHADREP project, this was scaled up but due to adhoc
    flow of funds the efforts were not sustained. The level of care and support for infected and affected
    people has not been realized and was poorly coordinated.

    Coordination. For the implementation of the KHADREP project it was the role of the government to
    establish structures to provide leadership in HIV & AIDS response, coordinate stakeholders and
    monitor the progress of activities to inform future programming. The government established the
    National AIDS Control Council (NACC) under an act of parliament. The structure was decentralized
    at the provincial, district and constituency level. It also included the AIDS Control Units (ACUs)
    among the ministries. We consider the following as achievements is relation to structures to fight HIV
    & AIDS: (i) The establishment of NACC is key in providing leadership, coordinating and monitoring
    of HIV & AIDS in Kenya. The secretariat has evolved with time to address various challenges which
    had hindered it from achieving it mandate. (ii) Decentralized structure: These are Provincial District
    and Constituency units to ease administration and have the services accessible to the beneficiaries. (iii)
    Establishment and training of CACCs at constituency level is a great idea for coordination and
    response at the community level. (iv) Financial resources flow to communities. There has been flow of
    resources which led a major shift and may have influenced the motivation of communities to respond to
    HIV & AIDS issues leading to reduction of HIV prevalence in Kenya.

    Despite the financial support of US$ 12.1 Million given to NACC and its decentralized structure for
    coordination, the following are still major shortcoming: (i) The structure is more responsive that



                                                     - 23 -

   strategic and this has been evident. Between 2000 and 2004 the NACC structure was still under
   formation and review hence lacked authority and stakeholders, community and development partners
   did not have confidence in the structure. (ii) NACC secretariat did not have a well defined
   organizational structure. This has led to high staff turn over. (iii) To date the District Development
   Officer (DDO) who is supposed to coordinate HIV/AIDS activities at the district level is seconded
   from the Ministry of National Planning and Development. This compromises their commitment to
   HIV/Aids programs and may weaken the role of DATC despite the fact that this is a key organ in the
   national structure. (iv) The first CACCs were established and trained in 2001 then the same happened
   in 2003 after the entry of the new government . This was duplication of activities because they are yet
   to demonstrate their capacity. To date CACC as an organ is still dependent on the political calendar.
   (v) CACC membership of 21 representatives is too large and this hampers effective operation. As
   KANCO we believe a slim committee with technical people will address the issues of coordination at
   the community level. (vi) The CACC coordinator, data clerk, messenger and accountant are all
   seconded from other ministries hence lack the capacity to perform program work and have no
   motivation t o work with the community. KANCO feels few staff with multiple skills would serve
   better. (vii) NACC and its decentralized structures have been funded by KHADREP throughout hence
   the government is yet to finance its operations like any other government organ. (viii) Linkage between
   NACC structure and other Government systems like Location Development Committees CDF and
   Bursary Committees is weak. (ix) Collaboration between the ACU and DATC. CACC at their levels
   have not been explored.

   The support to the line ministries of US$ 10 Million was not been utilized as expected. The following
   are the achievements: (i) Participation by the ministries in the fight against HIV & AIDS gave response
   a multi-sectoral approach; (ii) There has been improved collaboration between the ministries and
   NACC more so the Ministry of Health; (iii) The Ministry of Home Affairs has been key in support of
   OVCs while MOH have been instrumental in championing care and support for the infected; and (iv)
   The MoE have started school HIV/AIDS programme at a slightly lower level.                   Despite the
   achievements the following factors hinders the ministries to achieve their mandate: (i) Various
   ministries didn't mainstream Comprehensive HIV & AIDS interventions instead they initiated HIV
   awareness programs which could not reach the set objectives; (ii) The ministries have not been keen in
   mobilization of funds for HIV & AIDS workplace program within government despite the MTF
   budgeting processes; and (iii) Various ministries could not account for the funds received from NACC
   which affected the whole KHADREP project.

   Within the project a big percentage of the resources was allocated for CSOs, private sector and
   research institutions. Out of these funds a lot of community HIV and AIDS interventions were put in
   place for prevention, treatment, care, support and mitigation of socio-economic impact. However a
   good amount of the funds this amount has not been accounted for due to poor management of the kitty.
   The role of allocation and management of funds should managed independently by a financial
   management firm. The stakeholders need be more engaged in the selection of areas to be funded and
   who gets the funds before disbursement. Also get a strong M & E to determine the usage of funds and
   the IMPACT need also to be shared widely.

   Monitoring, Evaluation and documentation. The M&E component came as an after thought. It was
   not integrated in the whole project from the beginning. On going documentation was not done to
   promote learning, transparency and accountability.


10. Additional Information



                                                   - 24 -

- 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
HIV prevalence rate among people aged            6.7% KDHS 2003                            0.4% male, 3% female, 1.6% total (15-19
15-24 years                                      9.4% ANC                                  years) KDHS 2003

                                                                                           2.4% male, 9% female, 6.0% total (15-24
                                                                                           years) KDHS 2003

                                                                                           0.9% male, 4.9% female, 2.9% total (15-24
                                                                                           years) estimated for 2004 in Kenya HIV/AIDS
                                                                                           Data Booklet (KHDB), NACC, December
                                                                                           2005
                                                                                           8.3% female, 4.3% male, 6.4% total
                                                                                           estimated for 2004 in Kenya HIV/AIDS Data
                                                                                           Booklet
                                                 24,000 new infections 0-15 year group in  30,000 new infections 0-15 year group
                                                 2003                                      estimated for 2004 in Kenya HIV/AIDS Data
                                                                                           Booklet, NACC, December 2005 (page 13)
                                                                                           90,000 new infections 15-49 year group
HIV prevalence rate among people aged            62,000 new infections 15-49 year group in estimated for 2004 in Kenya HIV/AIDS Data
15-49                                            2003                                      Booklet, NACC, December 2005 (page 11)
Median age at first intercourse in people aged 17.8 years KDHS 2003
20-24
Reported condom use at last sex with             17.8 years KDHS 2003
non-regular partner in people aged 15-19
Percentage of people aged 20-24 reporting        10.3% men, 0.9% women, KDHS 2003
having a sexually transmitted disease during
the previous 12 months
Primary school enrollment and completion
rates among orphans
Mean number of sexual partners among             10.3% men, 0.9% women, KDHS 2003
non-married people aged 15-19 in the last 12
months


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
By 2004, the number of                           All ministries                            All ministries (budget for AIDS Control Unit)
ministries/departments with a budget line
item for HIV/AIDS-related programs will
increase.
The percentage of districts that have            100%
functional Voluntary Counseling and Testing
services
The percentage of primary and secondary
schools that have HIV/AIDS integrated into
the curricula
Credit Disbursement Rate to finance local        100%
initiatives (Part C) will increase to 10 percent,
30 percent, 65 percent and 100 percent by
1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th year of project
implementation.
Percentage of constituencies submitting at
least three proposals to the Community
Initiative Account will increase between Year
2 and Year 4 of project implementation.
The percentage of districts that have (a)
functional patient support center(s)
Proportions of households receiving




                                                                   - 26 -

assistance in caring for chronically ill adults
and/or orphans will increase by Year 4 of
program implementation.
The number of peer educators/counselors in 90%
the 210 constituencies will increase by 30
percent by the end of Year 1, 50 percent by
the end of Year 2, 70 percent by the end of
Year 3, and 90 percent by the end of Year 4
of project implementation.
The number of people participating in
voluntary counseling and testing services for
HIV/AIDS will increase by 30 percent by the
end of Year 1; 50 percent by end of Year 2;
60 percent by the end of Year 3; and 70
percent by the end of Year 4.

1End of project




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Part A (Support to line ministries)                         10.30             6.50            63.1
Part B (support to NACC)                                    12.10           10.60               88
Part C (Community Initiative Account)                       30.00           34.80              106

Total Baseline Cost                                         52.40           51.90
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.90
 Price Contingencies                                         2.10
                         Total Project Costs                56.40           51.90
                   Total Financing Required                 56.40           51.90


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            3.90            3.00         2.30          1.50         10.70
                                   (3.80)          (3.00)      (2.30)          (0.00)       (9.10)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         7.70          0.90         8.60
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (7.70)          (0.00)       (7.70)
4. Community Based                  0.00            0.00        30.00          0.00         30.00
Grants
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (30.00)         (0.00)      (30.00)
5. Training                         0.00            0.00         2.10          0.00         2.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.10)          (0.00)       (2.10)
6. Unallocated                      0.00            0.00         1.00          0.00         1.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)
   Total                            3.90            3.00        43.10          2.40         52.40
                                   (3.80)          (3.00)      (43.10)         (0.00)      (49.90)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.80         1.35           0.00        2.15
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.68)         (0.00)       (0.68)
3. Services                         0.00           0.29         1.42           0.00        1.71
                                   (0.00)         (0.29)       (0.75)         (0.00)       (1.04)



                                                - 28 -

   4. Community Based                       0.00               0.00             31.70             0.00             31.70
   Grants
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (31.70)            (0.00)           (31.70)
   5. Training                              0.00               0.00              6.30             0.00              6.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.30)            (0.00)           (6.30)
   6. Unallocated                           0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
        Total                               0.00               1.09             41.77             0.00             42.86
                                           (0.00)             (0.29)           (40.43)            (0.00)           (40.72)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Part A (Support to line         9.50         0.80                     6.50         0.10                  68.4      12.5
ministries
Part B (Support to NACC)       10.50         1.60                    10.60         0.12                  101.0     7.5
Part C (Community              30.00         0.00                    31.70         0.00                  105.7     0.0
Initiative Account)




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              6/26/2000               16     LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1); QUALITY ADVISORS (3);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMISTS (2);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYSTS (2);
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANTS (2).


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              7/17/2000               16     LEAD HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             QUALITY ADVISORS (3);
                                             HEALTH ECONOMISTS
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYSTS
                                             (2); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANTS
                                             (2).


 Supervision
              12/04/2000                7    LEAD HEALTH                      S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SNR.
                                             SOCIAL SECTOR



                                              - 31 -

                SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); TASK
                TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
06/28/2001    7 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        U
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
12/28/2001    7 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
04/29/2002    8 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                (1): TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
11/06/2002    7 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
05/19/2003    7 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
11/26/2003    7 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        U    S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST



                - 32 -

                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
05/10/2004    7 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        U    S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
11/30/2004    6 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        U    S
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SNR. SOCIAL
                SECTOR SPECIALIST
                (1);TASK TEAM ASSISTANT
                (1)
12/17/2004    8 TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD         S    S
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                SR. SOCIAL DEV. SPEC. (1);
                FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC. (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); OVC CONSULTANT (1);
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1).
05/06/2005    8 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                SR. PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                SR. FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); LEAD HEALTH
                SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1).
12/27/2005    8 TEAM LEADER (1);              U    S
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                SR. PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                SR. FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); LEAD HEALTH
                SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1).




                - 33 -

 ICR
               12/29/2006             8     LEAD ECONOMIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1); SR
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SR
                                            FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1); LEAD
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            SR HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROGRAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               16
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    32
  Supervision                              87
  ICR                                       6
  Total                                  141




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  World Bank Documents

  1. Kenya Country Assistance Strategy.
  2. Kenya Human Development Brief (September 2004).
  3. Fiduciary Risk Assessment for Government of Kenya Health projects.
  4. Financial Management Assessment Report (October 25, 2005).
  5. Project Management Reports, Project Status Reports, Supervision Mission Aide-Memoirs,
  Implementation Status & Results Reports for KHADREP, 2000-2005.

  Government Documents

  1. Kenya National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2000-2005, National AIDS Control Council, October
  2000.
  2. Assessing The Application Of The `Three Ones Principles' In Kenya, Grose, Ndung'u,
  Barriere-Constantin, DFID Health Systems Resource Centre, February 2005.
  3. Report on the JAPR 2005, NACC, December 2005.
  4. NACC Joint Institutional Review, Final Report, NACC, February 2004.
  5. Financial and Management Audit of the National AIDS Control Council, Efficiency Monitoring
  Unit, Cabinet Office, Office of the President, April 2005.
  6. Report: Governance Review of Three Projects Financed by the World Bank PSM-TAP,
  KHADREP, DARE, Government of Kenya/Deloitte, June 2005.
  7. Kenya HIV/AIDS Data Booklet, NACC, December 2005.




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 8.




                       - 38 -

