Report No. PID9280
Project Name                     Kenya-Kenya AIDS Disaster Response (@)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       KEPE70920
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL COUNCIL
Office of the President, National AIDS
Control Council, Kenyatta National
Hospital Grounds,
P.O. Box 19361,
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Dr Mboya
Tel: 714972, 729549/02
Fax: 729504/726036
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 29, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         July 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 14, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
More than 14 percent of all adults in Kenya are infected with HIV, with
the prevalence rate exceeding 20 percent in some districts. Of the
approximately 2.2 million Kenyans who are now infected, 106,000 are
children under the age of five years. Of particular concern is HIV's
prevalence among young women, with 24 percent of women aged 15-24 being
infected versus 4 percent of men in the same age group (1998 KDHS). On
average, close to 500 people in Kenya are estimated to die daily because
of AIDS, with 80 percent of these being aged 15-49 years the most
economically productive. The economic loss incurred by the country is
estimated at US$ 3 million daily. Kenya has achieved significant success
in making HIV/AIDS related information and services available to its
people. Awareness of the disease and ways to prevent transmission are
high. Condom use has increased dramatically from 0.3 million being used
each month in 1990 to 10 million per month today. Blood screening has
resulted in more than 98 percent of the country's blood supply being safe
from HIV. However, prevalence has continued to increase despite these
gains (see figure 1), and life expectancy has decreased from a projected
figure of 65.4 years without AIDS for the periods 1995-2000 to an actual
figure of 54.7 years due to AIDS. By 2005, it is projected to further
decline to 53.1 years. To date, HIV/AIDS has been addressed primarily as
a health issue; however, in actuality it has become a national development
crisis that reaches far beyond the health sector. The impact of HIV on
poverty is significant. With HIV/AIDS's negative impact on all aspects of
development, it compromises all other measures intended to reduce
poverty. In addition to escalating health care expenditures for both the
government and families, the disease has created growing numbers of AIDS



orphans. It reduces the size and experience of the labor force, with
negative economic impact for households and the economy at large. This
impact is exacerbated by the fact that it strikes mainly people in their
most productive years. Therefore, prevention and control of HIV/AIDS is
central to an effective poverty reduction strategy, as the economic
effects of AIDS ripple outwards from individuals to their families, to
firms and businesses, and to the macro economy. HIV/AIDS exacerbates
poverty because of its negative impact on all aspects of development.
Several studies (by FAO, among others) have shown how effectively HIV/AIDS
can drive households into poverty when their assets (e.g. livestock) are
sold to cover the costs of medical care, or when the available labor force
becomes insufficient to tend to the necessary agricultural activities.
Therefore is seems likely that in Kenya measures to reduce poverty cannot
succeed in the current environment where HIV prevalence is high and
increasing. Therefore, prevention and control of HIV/AIDS in Kenya is
central to an effective poverty reduction strategy, while poverty
reduction in itself is needed to mitigate the socio-economic impact that
the epidemic imposes on society. Poverty provides the conditions for the
spread of HIV/AIDS. The impact of poverty on women drives them to adopt
coping mechanisms that may include increased risk exposure (e.g.
commercial sex). Poverty also limits the scope for long-term development
prospects, thereby reducing the barriers for taking otherwise unacceptable
risks. A study in Kenya has shown that school enrollment rates for
children from HIV-affected households, including orphans, are
significantly lower than the national average.    The limited access to
formal education of this increasingly substantial cohort of children may
well provide the fertile ground for poverty and increased risk of exposure
to HIV.The fact that HIV prevalence has been rising steadily throughout
the 1990s is of considerable importance. It means that the most serious
epidemiological, social and economic impacts of the epidemic in Kenya are
yet to come. These will be felt over the 2000-2010 decade and beyond.
The graph on cumulative AIDS deaths illustrates this point well: Between
2000 and 2010, another 3.2 million Kenyans may die, for a cumulative total
of 4.5 million. This is enormous mortality for a mid-sized country and
illustrates that the full brunt of the HIV/AIDS epidemic resides in the
future. Realizing the enormity of the problem, the Government of Kenya has
declared AIDS a national disaster and established the National AIDS
Control Council (NACC) to coordinate a multi-sectoral response to the
crisis. The NACC was established in December 1999, in accordance with the
National AIDS Policy which was passed by Parliament in 1997. A small
Secretariat is currently being recruited.    AIDS Control Units (ACUs) are
being established in seven ministries, and ACUs will subsequently be
established in the remaining eight ministries and seven "major
departments" for a total of 22 ACUs to be coordinated by the NACC. The
NACC will be responsible for the implementation of the National AIDS
Strategy, which is now being finalized. At the district and provincial
levels, Provincial AIDS Control Committees/Provincial AIDS Control
Coordinators and District AIDS Control Committees/District AIDS Control
Coordinators will coordinate the decentralized aspects of the strategy's
implementation. The Constituency ADIS Control Committees (CACCs) will be
responsible for the coordination of efforts at the community level. Within
the context of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, the following
priorities have been recognized and the project will, complementary to the
efforts by all partners and other Bank-financed projects, focus on the
same.Prevention and AdvocacyBehavior modeling and promotion of behavior
-2 -



changePrevention of blood-borne infectionTreatment and control of sexually
transmitted infections (STIs)Prevention of parent-to-child transmission of
HIVTreatment and Support of Continuum of Care of the Infected and
AffectedMonitoring, Evaluation, and ResearchMitigation of the
socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDSManagement and Coordination
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to intensify the multi-sectoral response
to HIV/AIDS and accelerate the process of achieving the targets as
elaborated in the National Strategic Plan with broad participation of
communities
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has taken the lead in the re-orientation of the response to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic from a medical issue to a development one. The launch
in Nairobi of the Bank's regional AIDS strategy, "Intensifying Action
Against AIDS in Africa", was well received by both the Government and the
private sector, as well as by the bilateral and multilateral donors.
Through the Bank's regional "AIDS Campaign Team" (ACTafrica) and UNAIDS,
the Bank is well positioned to make regional issues and experiences
available to the project. In addition, the STI Project has been re-worked
since its Mid-Term Review to concentrate on the creation of an enabling
environment for the expansion of the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
The project would build on the recognized achievements in this area.
4. Description
During the early phase of implementation, the project is designed to
facilitate the launch of the expanded and intensified response to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya. Since the arrangements and mechanisms for
this expanded response are in their early stages of development,
considerable flexibility has been provided to adjust work-programs after
the first year of project implementation. The first year of project
implementation has been fully defined, describing the activities that
could, and should, be implemented sooner rather than later. During
project preparation significant lack of detail was allowed in the
work-programs for subsequent years although clear frameworks and criteria
for project activities have been agreed.The following five priority areas
of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan will be supported. These five
themes run through the three components of the project described in the
next section:(i) Prevention and advocacy. Includes behavior modeling and
promotion of behavior change through community mobilization for social
change to reduce the spread of HIV, promotion of counseling and voluntary
HIV testing, and protecting children and the youth from HIV. Priority
strategies are to prevent sexual transmission, and to prevent
parent-to-child transmission.(ii) Treatment and support of the continuum
of care of the infected and affected. Includes training and drugs,
supplies and equipment support to institutions to provide HIV/AIDS
management, counseling and home-based care. Priority strategy is to
reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on society.(iii) Management and
coordination. Includes training, management and coordination support to
the NACC Secretariat, 22 AIDS Control Units in line ministries and
departments, 8 Provincial, 68 District and 210 Constituency AIDS Control
Committees. Review of national policies and finalization of legislation
to support AIDS prevention and control are also included. Priority
strategy is to increase efficiency and effectiveness in the implementation
- 3 -



of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.(iv) Mitigation of the
socio-economic impact. Includes support to the most vulnerable orphans
and widows in the community. These community-based activities will be
coordinated through the Constituency AIDS Control Committees. Mobilization
of community based associations, the private sector, civil society and
Government departments to support people most devastated by AIDS will be
enhanced. Priority strategy is to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on
society.(v) Research, Monitoring and Evaluation. Includes basic
operations research to strengthen prevention and care, surveillance,
monitoring and implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.
Priority strategy is to increase efficiency and effectiveness in
implementation of this Strategic Plan.Part A: Support to line ministries
(US$10.3 million)The purpose of this component is to initiate, facilitate
and support the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS related activities into all line
ministries. Ministries will start activities in a phased manner through
the project period. The project will support the building of capacity
within the ministries and the implementation of their work-programs. The
capacity building aspects are likely to be particularly relevant for those
sectors not previously considered to have a direct role in combating
HIV/AIDS.Work-programs of implementing ACUs within line ministries will be
reviewed and approved by their ministry's senior management and NACC, and
thereafter they will be eligible for credit financing. While the
different Units will have freedom to develop work-programs that meet the
needs of their respective ministries and sectors, guidelines and training
will be provided to ensure that there is broad participation in the
formulation of the work-programs and that the applicable range of issues
is taken into account. While the project seeks to be flexible, there will
be restrictions placed on what will be eligible for credit financing. For
example, expenditures which are expected to be ineligible for credit
financing under the work-programs include: (i) vehicles, (ii) civil works
of any size, and (iii) overseas training. Any purchases of equipment,
commodities or training expenditures will be closely scrutinized by NACC
to ensure consistency with the project's development objectives.     ACUs
will be expected to address, among other issues, the manner in which
HIV/AIDS affected the quality and quantity of available services, the
ability to supply the required services, the organization of the sector,
the role of service providers, human resources policy and management
practices, the planning and management of sector resources, the
availability of public and private resources for the sector, and also
financial support to the sector provided by both the Government of Kenya
and the donor community. Part B: Co-ordination of program and project
activities by NACC and its decentralized entities (US$12.1 million)This
component will focus on the institutional strengthening of NACC and
related entities (PACCs, DACCs and CACCs) and the activities by these
institutions to co-ordinate the national program as well as the project
activities. Given that the NACC and related structures are
newly-established, the credit, which supports a significant part of this
program, will support the GoK in equipping these entities so that they can
fulfill their mission. The component will also support activities which
are to be coordinated centrally by NACC, such as training workshops for
PACCs, DACCs, CACCs, various levels of GoK personnel, and other
stakeholders, and national information campaigns. This will also include
technical assistance to support the NACC in developing guidelines,
strengthening capacity, and other activities necessary to address the
sector issues detailed above.A modest part of the credit under this
- 4 -



component will be applied towards technical assistance for the financial
management, monitoring and evaluation, and external auditing of an
HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account (see Part C).Part C: Support to
implementation of initiatives from civil society, private sector and
research institutions (US$30.0 million) For the specific purpose of
involving civil society organizations, the private sector and research
institutions in the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and making
financial resources under the project available to these organizations,
the NACC will establish an HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account.
Allocations of resources among the various organizations underline the
strong priority that will be given to community driven local initiatives.
Initiatives with a national or regional coverage, private sector
activities and research initiatives will only receive modest support. The
HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account will contribute to the improvement
of the welfare of communities by increasing their access to financial and
human resources to prevent further spread of HIV and to address the impact
of the epidemic on individuals and households. The sub-projects will be
identified, prepared, implemented, managed and maintained by beneficiary
communities.   The responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
sub-projects will depend on the nature of the sub-project, but is likely
to be that of the community and supporting Community Based Organizations,
Non-Governmental Organizations and Religious Organizations. The HIV/AIDS
Community Initiative Account will respond to demands for sub-projects,
which aim to address the prevention of HIV infection or the problems
related to the impact of HIV/AIDS on those infected or affected. These
may include:i activities aimed at behavior modeling or behavior change.
Examples include peer programs, formal and informal education programs for
out-of-school children, condom promotion;I social support to those
affected by HIV/AIDS, including orphans. Assistance to orphans in the
form of psychosocial support, school fees, school uniforms, health care,
food, and shelter are among the anticipated activities;I training programs
for community volunteers and support to training for counselors and home
based care-givers, procurement of supplies for home based care such as
gloves and essential drugs;I support to organizations of people who are
HIV positive or affected by the epidemic, seed funding to start income
generating activities, establish patient support centers. All 68 districts
in Kenya will be eligible for support through the HIV/AIDS Community
Initiative Account. The role of the community is to initiate the project,
implement and manage the project, complete and maintain the project. The
role of the District AIDS Control Officers will be to provide information,
advise communities on all aspects of the project cycle and assist in the
facilitation of a participatory decision making process.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               2.4
IBRD
IDA                      50
Total Project Cost       52.4
6. Implementation
The Permanent Secretary to the Office of the President, in charge of
Provincial Administration, will be the overall accounting officer for
resources made available to the Office of the President/National AIDS
Control Council for the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy
- 5 -



and for all project resources. Co-ordination of activities and accounting
responsibilities for all three parts of the project will be delegated to
the NACC.   A Project Oversight Committee will be established, comprised
of the Permanent Secretary, Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of Public
Service (chair); the Accounting Officer, Office of the President; a
representative of the Ministry of Finance and Planning; the Chairman of
the NACC; a representative of the private sector; and a representative of
the NGOs/religious organizations. This committee will review annual
progress reports, annual work-programs and, when necessary, address major
constraints in project implementation. Progress reports and work-programs
will subsequently be presented to the NACC for approval. The Chairman of
the NACC will organize the Project Oversight Committee meetings, to be
convened at least twice a year and to be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary, Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of Civil Service.Overall
project co-ordination will be the responsibility of the Secretariat of the
National AIDS Control Council under the direction of its Chief Executive
Officer, the Director of NACC. The Secretariat will assume the
implementation, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation
responsibilities for the project. It will organize semi-annual Joint
Reviews to report on work-program achievements and on all financial
matters concerning the project, as part of the overall HIV/AIDS strategy
implementation. In addition, it will present the work-program for the
next fiscal year to all partners after it has been endorsed by the Project
Oversight Committee and approved by the Council. Part A: The line
ministriesThe Accounting Officer of each of the implementing ministries
will assure that the program and project activities are aimed at
mitigating the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on her/his sector and to
integrate prevention activities into its programs. She/he will review
annual work-programs and budgets, as elaborated by the AIDS Control Unit
in her/his ministry, and ensure that the use of project resources is
applied to the intended purposes. In addition, as a member of the Board
of the National AIDS Control Council, she/he will review and where
appropriate approve the overall project work-program of the National AIDS
Control Council and the project. The AIDS Control Unit, under the
leadership of the Senior Assistant Director, will co-ordinate the
implementation of project activities at the level of the individual
ministry. The ACU will be responsible for the elaboration of annual
work-programs and budgets, for the financial management of project
resources, and for the monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
Annual work-programs and budgets will be submitted to the Permanent
Secretary for approval, and consequently to the Secretariat of the NACC in
order to obtain financial support from project resources. Part B: Program
co-ordination by the NACC and its decentralized entitiesThe Office of the
President, under the leadership of the Permanent Secretary, will be
responsible for the overall program and project performance and assure
consistency between project activities and national policy. It will
assure the timely transfer of project resources to the NACC and to the
line ministries, and be responsible for the timely accounting for these
resources. The National AIDS Control Council will review and approve
annual work-programs for the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS
Strategy and, as part thereof, the project. The Council will assure
consistency in the approaches adopted by all implementing agencies
concerning HIV prevention and mitigation of the impact of the epidemic.The
Chairman of the National AIDS Control Council will convene Council
meetings at least twice a year in order to review annual progress reports,
- 6 -



and to submit consolidated annual work-programs and budgets for
approval.The Secretariat of the National AIDS Control Council, under the
leadership of the Director, will be responsible for the co-ordination of
program and project activities. The Secretariat will elaborate its own
annual work-programs and budgets, consolidate the work-programs of the
various implementing line ministries and co-ordinate common activities
such as training, IEC, procurement and printing of IEC material. It will
organize semi-annual Joint Reviews for all major stakeholders to report on
program and project achievements. In addition, the Secretariat will
establish a Technical Committee to review the proposals submitted with
request for funding as described under Part C. Finally, the Secretariat
will assist line ministries with the conduct of impact assessments and
with the elaboration of sectoral work-programs and budgets. The
Secretariat will account to the Permanent Secretary in charge of
Provincial Administration, Office of the President.The Provincial AIDS
Control Committees will be responsible for the co-ordination of project
activities at provincial level, for the support to District AIDS Control
Committees, for the monitoring of all HIV/AIDS related activities at
provincial level and for the review and approval of proposals, within the
prescribed guidelines (see below). The PACC will report to the
Secretariat of the NACC.The District AIDS Control Committees will
co-ordinate HIV/AIDS activities at district level. The Committee will
review and approve proposals within the prescribed guidelines (see
below). The DACC will report to the PACC.The Constituency AIDS Control
Committees will co-ordinate the HIV/AIDS related activities at
constituency level. The Committee will be responsible for the social
mobilization in favor of an intensified response to the epidemic. It will
review proposals submitted with requests for funding and advise the DACC
accordinglyPart C: the HIV/AIDS Community Initiative AccountThe National
AIDS Control Council, through its Secretariat, will be responsible for the
management of an HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account, the financial
management, monitoring and evaluation functions of which will be
contracted to an independent agency. The Secretariat will monitor the
execution of the contract and the performance of the agency will be
reviewed during the regular external audit of NACC. The agency will also
provide a procurement specialist for the first year of the project to work
closely with the procurement officer of NACC.Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation results will be used as important benchmarks to
indicate whether or not the project targets have been achieved. The
results of such monitoring and evaluation will guide adjustments and
modifications during the project implementation period. The Project
Design Summary and Logical Framework will form the basis of designing and
administering the monitoring and evaluation tools. The guiding document
containing targets to be achieved is Government's HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan
for the period 2000 - 2003.
7. Sustainability
The commitment of the Government of Kenya to expand the response to
HIV/AIDS to include partners across all levels of society has been
demonstrated by the establishment of the National AIDS Control Council,
the partnership reflected in the composition of the Council and the
support it recieves from the political leadership, civil society and the
business society. Ownership of this commitment and the operational
aspects by the Government and its partners is reflected in the
institutional, financial, and accountability arrangements through which
- 7 -



the projects support is structured. Broadening the platform for
partnerships and the Bank's role in resource mobilization will garantee
better chances for the financial sustainability of the activities
supported by the project. Finally, some of the activities supported
consist of initial investments to institutionalize a more effective
response to the epidemic, with only modest future resource requirements.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
a) Stakeholder Consultation: Key stakeholders, particularly those with
an important role in implementation, should be involved from project
identification, through preparation and appraisal, and throughout
implementation. The project has been prepared in as consultative a manner
as possible in the short time available. The community and CBO/NGO focus
of the project design will assure consultation during implementation.b)
Procurement: The employment of an independent procurement agency should
be considered whenever appropriate. Provision has been made for
procurement support, but a procurement agency would not be appropriate for
this project in view of the limited procurement under ICB procedures. c)
Financial management: Particularly given the new structures, it is
important to have both sound financial management and clear accountability
in place for both GOK and external financing. Particular stress has been
put on this during preparation and it is reflected in the detailed
documentation available on financial management.d) Implementing Across
Ministries: Past experience with IDA projects has demonstrated the
undesirability of implementing projects across multiple ministries, and
ICRs have recommended avoiding this approach in the future. Obviously, a
multi-sectoral AIDS project has no choice. However, the risks inherent in
this arrangement will be mitigated by the fact that the project will be
coordinated from NACC, which is located in the Office of the President.
Coordination from OP gives the project sufficient authority over the other
ministries involved to facilitate timely resolution of the types of
problems that have plagued past projects. e) Policy Body vs. Implementing
Agency: The experience of IDA's Kenya population projects in supporting
the National Council on Population and Development have shown the danger
of a policy body overstepping its appropriate role and attempting to
undertake implementation. This results in numerous implementation
problems and compromises the mission of the policy body. Both the GOK and
IDA have kept this issue at the forefront of the discussions on the
establishment of NACC and any project support. During preparation of the
project, assurances were obtained that the NACC system has only policy and
co-ordination functions.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Albertus Voetberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (Kenya Office) 254-2-260-451
- 8-



Fax:   (202) 473-8299
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed during the week ending December 1, 2000.
-9-



