Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3415-KE
Development Credit Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 12, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3415-KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B) 
the Association has received the following document, namely, 
the Borrower’s Sessional Paper on HIV/AIDS of 1997, part of which 
describes a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement activities under the Borrower’s National AIDS Strategic Plan 
(the said document being hereinafter referred to as the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the National AIDS Control 
Council (NACC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit available 
to the NACC, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in an agreement of even date 
Page  2
herewith between the Association and NACC (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth 
in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ACU” means an AIDS Control Unit referred to in paragraph 1 
(d) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(b)
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(c)
“Beneficiary” means a CBO (as hereinafter defined), a 
private sector entity, including a religious body, an NGO (as hereinafter 
defined) or a research institution which has met the eligibility criteria 
set out in the Manual of Procedures and the requirements of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement and which, as a result, has received or is entitled 
to receive, a Grant for the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined);
(d)
“CACCs” means the Constituency AIDS Control Committees 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(e)
“CBOs” means Community-Based Organizations;
(f)
“Coordinating Agencies” means NACC, PACCs, DACCs and CACCs;
(g)
“DACCs” means the District AIDS Control Committees 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(h)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set 
Page  3
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(j)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve-month period 
beginning July 1 and ending June 30 of each Year;
(k)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1.A of this Agreement;
(l)
“Grant” means a grant to be made to finance a Subproject or 
other activity pursuant to Part C of the Project;
(m)
“HIV”
means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(n)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the 
United Nations Development Programme;
(o)
“IEC materials” means information, education and 
communication materials;
(p)
“Implementing Agencies” means the ACUs, private sector 
entities, the NGOs, the CBOs, the Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS 
and research organizations participating in the Project;
(q)
“Manual of Procedures” means the manual of procedures for 
the Community Initiative Account referred to in paragraph 6 (c) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(r)
“NACC” means the National AIDS Control Council a corporate 
body established in December 1999 pursuant to the Borrower’s National 
AIDS Policy Act of 1997, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(s)
“National AIDS Strategic Plan” means the National AIDS 
Strategic Plan of the Borrower dated July 2000;
(t)
“NGO” means a non-profit entity established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(u)
“OP” means the Borrower’s Office of the President;
(v)
“PACCs” means the Provincial AIDS Control Committees 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(w)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and NACC, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(x)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project 
Implementation Plan which shall include the Manual of Procedures as 
hereinafter defined, for the Community Initiative Account referred to in 
paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(y)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(z)
“Project Oversight Committee” means the committee to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(aa)
“Project Year” means the 12 month period beginning from the 
Page  4
Effective Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 
month period following thereafter;
(ab)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(ac)
“Subproject” means a subproject or activity to be carried 
out under Part C of the Project which having met the eligibility criteria 
set out in the Manual of Procedures and the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement is eligible for financing, on a grant basis, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Manual of Procedures; and
(ad)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and NACC pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty 
seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
37,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made 
to need the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for any 
Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
Page  5
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 
2011 and ending September 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on September 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(d)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(e)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.09.  The Chief Executive of NACC shall be designated by 
the Minister responsible for finance as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provision of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
Page  6
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
NACC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of NACC therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable NACC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to NACC, as a 
grant, the proceeds of the Credit under a subsidiary financing agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and NACC under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out 
by NACC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting 
practices, records and separate 
Page  7
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year 
after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account 
was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 
and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to 
whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association 
not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project 
Management Report for such period, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditure proposed to be 
financed out of proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contract financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Page  8
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
NACC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that NACC will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the 
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and NACC;
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a Project 
Implementation Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(c)
NACC has appointed the following key staff with 
qualifications and under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association: (i) Director; (ii) Procurement Manager; (iii) Deputy 
Director, Finance and Administration; (iv) Finance Manager; (v) IEC 
Manager; (vi) Private Sector/Civil Society Manager; (vii) Deputy 
Director, Technical Services; and (viii) Manager, Monitoring and 
Evaluation.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by NACC, and is legally binding upon NACC in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NACC and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and NACC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
Page  9
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance & Planning
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANCE
22921
254-2-260382
Nairobi
MINFIN-KE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Felistas V. Khayumba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  10
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, supplies
100% of foreign 
expenditures
vehicles, IEC materials
and 90% of local 
expenditures
and other goods for:
(a) Part A of the 
   2,600,000
Project
(b) Part B of the
   3,300,000
Project
(2)
Consultant services
100%
and training for:
(a) Part A of the
   4,000,000
Project
(b) Part B of the
   2,400,000
Project
(3)
Grants under Part C
  22,750,000
100% of amounts
of the Project
disbursed
(4)
Incremental operating
     950,000
90%
costs
(5)
Unallocated
   1,900,000
TOTAL
  37,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental 
operating costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of 
vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, 
travel per diems and allowances, travel and accommodation, office rental 
and Project support staff but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
expenditures for Grants under Category (3) unless (i) the 
Borrower has furnished to the Association a Manual of Procedures in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association; (ii) the Beneficiary 
concerned has entered into a Grant Agreement with the NACC; (iii) the 
Grant in question has been made in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines and other provisions set out or referred to in the Manual of 
Procedures and this Agreement; and (iv) NACC has employed the Financial 
Management Agency referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement; 
and
Page  11
(c)
payments for expenditures for goods and services supplied 
under a contract which any national or international financing 
institution or agency, other than the Association, shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under any other credit or grant.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in a commercial bank a 
separate (special deposit account) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received (a) evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been opened; (b) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (c) 
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into said Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
Page  12
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the  Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent 
of $10,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in 
carrying out the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan to: (i) reduce the 
spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Kenya; (ii) mitigate the 
socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS; (iii) increase access to the care and 
support for people infected or affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic; and 
(iv) achieve, with the active and broad participation of communities, the 
multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS primary targets set out in the said Plan. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
Page  13
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Support to Line Ministries
Under the HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, facilitating and supporting the 
mainstreaming of HIV/AIDs related activities into all line ministries in 
a phased manner through the project period, including: 
(a)
the strengthening of the capacity of the said ministries to 
develop policies and activities designed to stem the spread of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic;
(b)
the preparation and implementation by the said ministries of 
work-programs enabling a sector-specific response to be made to the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic, including the development and strengthening of the 
capacity of AIDS Control Units in each Ministry to provide effective 
leadership especially in policy, institutional development, resource 
mobilization, activity implementation and advocacy; and
(c)
the mobilization of the entire public sector to incorporate 
into their core functions HIV/AIDS control efforts. 
Part B:
Coordination of Program and Project Activities
1.
(a)
The strengthening of the capacity of NACC and the other 
Coordinating Agencies to coordinate Program and Project activities, 
including the provision of equipment, facilities, training, technical 
assistance and resources to the Coordinating Agencies.
(b)
Assisting NACC and the other Coordinating Agencies to 
monitor the progress of the Program and Project activities to ensure the 
progress of the said activities towards implementing the National 
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. 
2.
The carrying out of an information campaign to publicize widely to 
the population in the Borrower’s territory and stakeholders the roles and 
responsibilities of NACC, the Implementing Agencies and the Coordinating 
Agencies.
Part C:
Supporting Community, Private Sector and Research 
Institutions Initiatives 
1.
(a)
Establishment of an HIV/AIDS Community Initiative Account to 
provide funds, on a grant basis, to communities, civil society 
organizations, private sector entities, including religious bodies, and 
research institutions for use in the identification, preparation, 
implementation, management and maintenance of community driven 
subprojects including research initiatives and capacity strengthening of 
community based organizations all aimed at the prevention, care and 
mitigation of the social impact of the further spread of HIV/AIDS.  
(b)
Facilitating NGOs to support said community initiatives 
where needed.
(c)
Supporting the establishment of CBOs to support said 
community initiatives where needed.
2.
Assistance to research institutions in the carrying out of research 
initiatives aimed at supporting the effectiveness of said community 
initiatives.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
Page  14
