Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3415-KE
Project Agreement
(HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL COUNCIL
Dated October 12, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3415-KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL 
COUNCIL  (NACC);
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty seven million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,900,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that NACC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement (the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and NACC, 
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to NACC on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS NACC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NACC declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the said Part of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association and NACC shall otherwise 
agree, NACC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NACC shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, NACC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
NACC, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with NACC on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. NACC shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, NACC shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NACC shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
NACC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by NACC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Section 2.06.  NACC shall, not later than January 31, 2001, employ 
a financial management agency with qualifications and under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association which shall be responsible for 
assisting NACC in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NACC
Section 3.01. NACC shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public 
health practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NACC shall at all times operate and maintain its 
equipment and other property and facilities, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, public health 
practices.
Section 3.03. NACC shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NACC shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
NACC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal 
year, 
audited in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such 
audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Page  4
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. NACC shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project management 
report for such period, which: 
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by the said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of NACC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20  years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify NACC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  5
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For National Aids Control Council
Office of the President
National Aids Control Council
Kenyatta National Hospital
P.O. Box 19361
Nairobi
Facsimile:
254-2-729504
254-2-726036
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of NACC  or by NACC on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chief 
Executive of NACC or such other person or persons as NACC shall designate 
in writing, and NACC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
NATIONAL AIDS CONTROL COUNCIL
By /s/ Felistas V. Khayumba
Authorized Representative
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.  
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C and Part D of this Section, 
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
IEC materials estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of (i) international 
shopping procedures for goods not available locally; and (ii) national 
shopping procedures for goods available locally, all in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Office equipment  estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 
equivalent, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  7
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Procurement of Emergency Goods
1.
Computers and accessories, office and power equipment estimated to 
cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may 
be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines.
2.
Vehicles estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines or may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines, or may be procured from local bonded warehouses on a 
competitive basis under procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Furniture of NACC and the regional coordinating offices estimated 
to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Furniture for constituencies estimated to cost less than $3,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent for all 210 constituencies, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
All goods under this Part D shall be procured within twelve months 
after the Effective Date.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first three contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding procedures, NACC shall, prior to 
the execution of any contract, provide to the Association for review and 
approval the draft contracts.  The contracts shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods under Part 
D to this Schedule (Procurement of Emergency Goods) NACC shall, prior to 
the execution of any contract, provide to the Association for review and 
Page  8
approval the draft contracts.  The contracts shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The shortlist of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for financial audits and other repetitive services may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services procured at the district level under approved work 
programs estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  9
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Project Implementation Plan
NACC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no provision of the Project Implementation Plan shall be amended or 
waived if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
The Manual of Procedures
NACC shall prepare a manual of procedures, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, for Subprojects. Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no provision of the Manual of 
Procedures shall be amended or waived if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect 
the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.  The Manual of Procedures shall require applications for Grants 
to be submitted in writing to the Constituency AIDS Control Committee or 
higher level AIDS Control Committee as determined by their threshold 
approval levels.    
3.
Work Programs
Page  10
(a)
The Project Implementation Plan shall provide that:
(i)
to be eligible for financing under the Credit, 
work-programs of line 
ministries must be 
submitted to the parent ministries of line ministries and 
to NACC for approval and be approved by said parent ministries and 
NACC; and
(ii)
any purchases of equipment, commodities or the 
provision of training under the 
Project shall be closely 
scrutinized to ensure consistency with the Project’s 
developmental objectives.
4.
NACC shall furnish to the Association for approval the consolidated 
annual work program and shall thereafter implement the Project in 
accordance with said work program.
5.
Project Management and Implementation – Coordinating Agencies
(a)
The Permanent Secretary to the Office of the President in 
charge of Provincial Administration shall be the  accounting officer for 
resources made available to the said Office or to NACC under the Project 
for the carrying out of the National AIDS Strategic Plan. NACC shall be 
assigned responsibility  for the coordination of the activities, and 
accounting responsibilities, under the Project. 
(b)
The Project Oversight Committee established by the Borrower 
shall consist of: (i) a chairman who shall be the Permanent Secretary, 
Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of the Public Service; (ii) a 
representative of the Ministry of Finance and Planning; (iii) the 
Chairman of NACC; (iv) the Accounting Officer of the Office of the 
President; (v) a representative from the private sector; and (vi) a 
representative of the NGO/religious organizations. 
(c)
NACC shall be responsible for: (i) review and approval of 
annual work programs for the carrying out of the National AIDS Strategic 
Plan; and (ii) the assurance of consistency in the approaches adopted by 
all the Implementing Agencies concerning HIV/AIDS prevention and 
mitigation.
(d)
The Director of NACC shall be responsible for: (i) the 
convening of meetings of NACC; and (ii) the submission of consolidated 
annual work programs and budgets of the Implementation Agencies for 
approval by NACC. The said meetings shall be held at least twice every 
year.
(e)
The Secretariat of NACC shall be responsible for the overall 
coordination of Program and Project activities including the preparation 
of its own annual work program and budget, and consolidation of the work 
programs of other agencies, and line ministries. The Director’s functions 
would also include: 
(i)
the carrying out of, financial management and 
monitoring and evaluation of 
Project activities; 
(ii)
the organization of twice yearly joint reviews to 
report on the achievements, 
as part of the National 
AIDS Strategic Plan, and of work programs carried out 
under the Project; 
(iii)
the presentation of the work program for the next 
fiscal year to Program 
partners after the said 
program has been endorsed by the Project Oversight 
Committee and approved by NACC; and 
(iv)
the establishment of a Technical Committee, to review 
proposals costing more 
than $25,000 equivalent and for 
Page  11
facilitating NGOs and CBOs.  
(f)
The Provincial AIDS Control Committees shall be responsible 
for: (i) the coordination of Program and Project activities at the 
provincial level; (ii) the provision of support to the District AIDS 
Control Committees; (iii) the approval of proposals supporting 
applications for Grants; and (iv) the monitoring of all HIV/AIDS related 
activities at the provincial level.  The PACC shall report to the NACC. 
(g)
The District AIDS Control Committees shall: (i) coordinate 
HIV/AIDS activities at the district level; (ii) approve proposals 
supporting applications for Grants; (iii) be responsible for the 
provision of support to the Constituency AIDS Control Committees; and 
(iv) be responsible for the monitoring of all HIV/AIDS related activities 
at the district level.  The DACC shall report to the PACC.
(h)
The Constituency AIDS Control Committees shall: (i) 
coordinate the HIV/AIDS related activities at the constituency level; 
(ii) be responsible for the social mobilization in favor of an 
intensified response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic; and (iii) approve 
proposals supporting applications for Grants. 
5.
Line Ministries
(a)
The AIDS Control Unit in a participating ministry shall 
coordinate Project activities at the level of the ministry. The ACU shall 
also be responsible for: (i) the development of annual work programs and 
budgets; (ii) the financial management of Project resources provided to 
the ministry; and (iii) the monitoring and evaluation of Project 
activities as they relate to the ministry.
(b)
The ACUs shall: (i) report on the progress of the Project  
primarily to the accounting officer of the parent ministry of the line 
ministry with copies of the report to the Permanent Secretary, Office of 
the President and the Director of NACC; and (ii) furnish accounts and 
financial reports relating to its ministry’s Project activities primarily 
to the accounting officer of the line ministry concerned with copies to 
the Office of the President and the Director of NACC.
6.
Community Initiative Account
(a)
The Secretariat of NACC shall be responsible for the 
management of the Community Initiative Account; and to that end, NACC 
shall employ an independent agency, acceptable to the Association, under 
an agreement, satisfactory to the Association to carry out, on behalf of 
NACC, the financial management, procurement, advisory, and monitoring 
functions related to the Community Initiative Account.
(b)
The Secretariat of NACC shall monitor the execution, by the 
said independent agency, of its obligations under the said agreement; and 
to that end, NACC shall employ an auditor, satisfactory to the 
Association, to review the performance by the said agency of the said 
obligations.
(c)
The eligibility and purposes for which the Community 
Initiative Account funds shall be used shall be determined in accordance 
with the criteria set out in the Manual of Procedures, provided however, 
that PACCs or CACCs which have registered as NGOs/CBOs shall not be 
eligible for Grants for implementing Subprojects under the Community 
Initiative Account. 
7.
Subprojects and Grants
(a)
The persons, entities or institutions to be responsible for 
the operation and maintenance of  Subprojects shall include CBOs, NGOs, 
private sector entities, including religious bodies, and research 
Page  12
institutions.
(b)
The matters to be considered in the approval of Subproject 
community related proposals for Grants shall include the following:
(i)
there must be clear evidence that the Subproject has 
been identified by the 
community concerned, after an 
examination by the said community of HIV/AIDS 
related 
problems; and
(ii)
the Subproject proposal must recommend solutions to 
identified priority 
HIV/AIDS related problems 
and clearly show evidence of widespread support 
within the community concerned for the recommended solutions.
8.
Provisions of Grant Agreements 
(a)
NACC shall out of the proceeds of the Community Initiative 
Account make funds available to a  Beneficiary, on a grant basis, under 
an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Beneficiary (the Grant Agreement).
(b)
The Grant Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and NACC, 
including to the extent that it shall be appropriate, the right to 
require the Beneficiary to:
(i)
carry out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance 
with sound administrative, 
financial, health, technical and managerial 
standards; 
(ii)
maintain adequate records for the Subproject 
concerned;
(iii)
procure all goods, works and services required for a 
Subproject in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(iv)
to use the goods, works and services so procured 
exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Subproject; and
(v)
permit NACC or the Borrower to inspect, by itself or 
jointly with 
representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, any 
goods, works, plants 
and construction included in the Subproject, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
(c)
The Grant Agreement shall provide for the right of NACC to 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any 
of its obligations under the Grant Agreement.
9.
Monitoring and Evaluations and Other Reviews
NACC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and 
September 30 each year a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
Page  13
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by April 30 and October 31 or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the 
following:
A.
Project Indicators
1.
The percentage of Credit Proceeds under Part C disbursed per 
constituency, district and province.
2.
The number of the line ministries that have sensitized their staff 
on the facts about HIV/AIDS.
3.
The number of public sector training institutions that have 
integrated HIV/AIDS issues in their curriculum.
4.
The percentage of CACCs/DACCs/PACCs having submitted approved 
proposals under Part C.
5.
The proportion of proposals under Part C that focus on prevention, 
or care or support respectively.
B.
Process Indicators
1.
The percentage of districts and constituencies that have functional 
Voluntary Counseling and Testing Centers (VCT).
2.
The knowledge of Parent-to-Child Transmission (PTCT) and ways of 
how to prevent PTCT.
3.
The percentage of districts and constituencies that have functional 
patient support centers.
4.
The extent to which HIV/AIDS issues are examinable in primary and 
secondary schools and other training institutions.
5.
The percentage of districts and constituencies with active programs 
to support orphans.
6.
As in 5. above for widows.
7
VCT utilization rates.
8.
The percentage of ministries with budget line items for HIV/AIDS 
related programs.
C.
Impact Indicators
1.
Prevalence rates of HIV infection, by age group and gender.
2.
Median age at first sex.
Page  14
3.
Reported condom use at last sex with non-regular partner.
4.
STD incidence/prevalence.
5.
Primary school enrollment and completion rates among orphans.
6.
The number of non-regular sexual partners during a defined period, 
by marital status, age group, and gender.
