Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16832
Implementation Completion Report
El Salvador
Technical Assistance Loan
(Loan No. 3648-ES)
June 23, 1997
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Col6n
Exchange Rate. US$ 1.0 = S.8 C
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANTEL       National Telecommunications Administration (AdminJstrac6n Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones)
ASYCUDA   Computezized Customs Information System developed by UNCTAD
CACM        Central American Common Market
CIAT        Inter-American Center of Tax Administrators (Centro Interanericano de
Administradores Tributarios)
CONAMA    National Council for the Environment (Consejo Nacional del Medio Ambiente)
DGA         General Customs Directorate (Direcci6n General de Adua)
DGII        Internal Revenue Service (Direccion General de Impuestos Internos)
DGPES       General Directorate of Social and Econormic Policies (Direcci6n General de
Politca Econ6micay Social)
DGRH        General Directorate of Human Resources (Direccin General de Recursos Humanos)
EC          European Community
ERAP        Economfic Recovery and Adjustment Program 1994-1998
ESAP      :Environmental Strategy and Action Plan
GAES        Economic and Social Advisory Group (Grupo Asesor Econ6mico Social)
GOES        Goverment ofEl Salvador
HRIS        Human Resource Information System
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         Intemational Monetary Fund
IMU         Inter-Ministerial Unit in MIPLAN (Unidadlnter-Ministeriat)
INPEP       Public Sector Pension Institute (Instituto de Previsi6n de Empleados P0licos)
ISSS        Social Security Isfitute (Insfituto Salvadorefio de Seguridad Social)
MAG         Ministry of Agriculture
MED         Ministry of Education
MICDES    Ministry for Coordination and Economic and Social Development (M7nisterio de
Coorinaci6n del Desarrollo Econ6micoy Soctcd)
MIFIN       Ministry of Finance
MIPLAN      Ministry of Planning
MOPHSA    Ministry of Public Health and Social Assistance
MOP         Ministry of Public Works
MOST        USAID-financed program for M6dernization of the Salvadoran Tax System
mml         Data Collection Modules (Md dubs de Recolecci6n de Informaci0n)
MTSB        Medium-Term Sectoral Budget
NEL         National Environmental Law
NRP         National Reconstruction Plan
NTBs        Non-Tariff Barriers
OAS         Organization of American States
PAES        El Salvador Enviromnental Program (ProgramaAmbiental de El Salvador)
PCU         Project Coordination Unit in MILAN (Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos)
PROMESA   Environmental Protection Project financed by USAID
PSMAP       Public Sector Modernization Action Plan
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SEMA        Secretariat of the Environment (Secretaria del Medio Ambiente)
SIS         Social Sector information System
TAL         Technical Assistance Loan
UNCTAD    United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID       United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT         Value-Added Tax
VMHUD       Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development in MOP
Vice President:  Shahid Javed Burki
Director:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Staff Member:  Antonio Martin del Canpo (Sr. Public Sector Economist3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                i-ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                           1
Introduction                                                               1
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                                     1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                                  3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                        8
D. Project Sustainability/Future Operation                                    8
E. Bank Performance                                                           9
F. Borrower Performance                                                      10
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                     11
IH. Key Lessons Learned                                                      11
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES                                                        12
Table 1: Sunnmary of Assessments                                             12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                          13
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                   14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                 14
Table 5: Studies-Included in the Project                                     15
Table 6: Project Costs                                                       17
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants                                           18
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                        24
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions                                            24
ANNEX I: Completion Mission Aide Memoire                                          25
ANNEX Il: Borrower's Evaluation                                                   31
This document has a restricted distributionr and may be used by recipients only in thie
performance of their official duties. Its coritents may not otherwise be disclosed without
.World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance Loan to
El Salvador for which Loan 3648 in the amount of US$2.5 million equivalent was approved on
September 14, 1993. The Loan became effective on January 13, 1994.
The closing date was September 30, 1996. The total disbursed amount was US$2,407.9
million; the final disbursement took place on December 11, 1996.
This ICR was prepared by Antonio Martin del Campo, Sr. Public Sector Economist
(LASLG), and Maria del Carmen Minfoso, consultant, and reviewed by Ian Bannon, Lead
Economist, LADCN. Preparation of this IC'R began with a mission to El Salvador between
December 9 and 13, 1996. The ICR is based on: discussions held with Government officials and
other donors during the mission, project documentation, including the President's Report, the
Loan Agreement, and a review of project files. This report benefited from discussions with staff
who participated in both the preparation and supervision of this project and SAL II. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing its evaluation of project
implementation, which is included as Annex II of the ICR.






Evaluation Summary
i.    World Bank post-war assistance to El Salvador began with its approval of a US$75
million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) which was designed to support the Government's
1989-94 Economic Recovery and Adjustment Program (ERAP). SAL I provided funds to
underpin a series of reforms in the areas of trade; fiscal and monetary policies; agricultural
development and social sector reform, including poverty alleviation measures. This reform
program was followed by a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) totaling US$50 million,
which was approved in September 1993. SAL U's primary focus was to continue the support to
the Structural Adjustment Program introduced with SAL I. A US$2.5 Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL) was approved in parallel to SAL I1 to assist the implementation of the Government's
structural adjustment program supported by SAL II and to establish the analytical basis for
subsequent phases of the reform program. The TAL's primary linkage to SAL II was to provide a
series of outputs in compliance with 7 out of the 23 Second Tranche release conditions. It was
furthermore expected to provide a bridge between the two administrations to maintain ongoing
policy dialogue on the structural adjustment agenda supported by SAL II.
Project Objectives
ii.    The TAL, which became effective Jfanuary 13, 1994, was designed to finance studies,
action plans, data collection systems and equipment to support SAL II adjustment efforts in the
areas of: (i) public sector modernization, by establishing the analytical basis for a comprehensive
modernization effort and through improvements in public expenditure management, the civil
service, and tax policy and administration (including customs); (ii) social sector reforms to
improve the efficiency of service delivery and reduce poverty; and (iii) environmental policy
reforms to ensure the sustainability of the development effort.
iii.   Since it was expected that SAL II would be fully disbursed during the Cristiani
Administration, the TAL was to provide a bridge between the two administrations and thus a
vehicle for uninterrupted policy dialogue on the structural adjustment agenda.
iv.   The TAL was comprised of the following components: (i) Public Sector Modernization;
(ii) Public Expenditure Management; (iii) Human Resource Information System; (iv) Tax Reform
(Customs Administration); (v) Environmental Policy Reform; (vi) Poverty Alleviation; and (vii)
Project Implementation.
Implementation Results
v.    The project substantially achieved its objective of meeting the 7 conditionalities for SAL
II Second Tranche release and furthermore provided the foundation to set in motion ongoing
public sector reform initiatives. However, overall achievement of project objectives was partial.
Moreover, in three out of the seven components, the impact of the measures supported by the
TAL were limited by the following: (i) the quality and applicability of expected end-products were
not always optimal (particularly in the case of the TAL-financed Public Sector Modernization
Action Plan); and (ii) some of the specific reforms underpinned by the TAL were not implemented
(i.e., public sector expenditure management and environmental reform components).
vi.   Furthermore, as is characteristic of any bridge project, overall sustainability of TAL-
funded initiatives across administrations, would depend in large measure, on the incoming
Administration's commitment to reform programs espoused by a previous administration.



ii
The newly appointed Council of Ministers approved the Public Sector Modernization Action Plan
which had been prepared under the former administration, yet in practice the orientation of the
Calder6n Sol Administration's public sector reform agenda shifted from some key public sector
modernization efforts proposed under that Action Plan (i.e., institutional restructuring and civil
service management reform) to the privatization of ANTEL, the electrical distribution network,
and the pension system.
vii.   Although achievement of the major objectives was partial, the overall outcome of the
TAL-funded program was considered satisfactory since financed activities were key to securing
the Government's ability to comply with conditions for SAL II Second Tranche release; and,
though expectations exceeded the potential impacts which could be derived through the
respective components, TAL-supported activities and outputs did equip the Government with the
foundation for building future reform strategies.
viii. Summary Ratings:
5.    The project substantially achieved all goals associated with SAL II Second Tranche
conditions and provided the foundation to set in motion ongoing public sector reform initiatives.
However, overall achievement of objectives was partial given that in three out of the seven
components achievement of expected impacts was limited. Sustainability prospects for reform
initiatives are likely in light of the current Administration's commitment to promoting economic
growth by continuing structural reforms and public sector modernization and the considerable
degree of ongoing multilateral development financing, particularly in the area of public sector
modernization. Both Borrower and Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the project's
lifecycle. The overall outcome is considered satisfactory since financed activities were key to
securing the Government's ability to comply with conditions for SAL II Second Tranche release
and TAL-supported activities and outputs equipped the Government with the foundation for
building future reform strategies
ix.   Lessons Learned
* A clear and realistic definition of program objectives is essential to ensure a common vision
of the long-term goals being sought and to measure ongoing progress. In the absence of such
clear objectives, ongoing assessment of progress attained and thus overall ability to remedy
project deficiencies may be hampered, undermining performance.
* Objectives should be linked closely to a realistic impact assessment. In the event that these
objectives prove misaligned to TAL-financed activities, either: (i) they should be modified to
ensure that they are more in harmony with the impacts that can be attained realistically through
the various activities; or (ii) TAL-financed activities should be re-evaluated and modified
individually to ensure attainment of these objectives.
* A change in administrations during the life of a project may lead to delays in project
implementation as well as the likelihood of redefinitions in reform priorities, which may.affect
long-term Government commitment to certain reform components and thus future sustainability.
* Bridge projects are susceptible to changes in the leadership of key agencies involved in the
reform process. Projects which rely highly on one individual to spearhead the reform effort are
especially vulnerable to changes in administration. In the event that this individual is replaced,
overall momentum and continuity is threatened.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    In June 1989, the new government of President Cristiani initiated an Economic Recovery
and Adjustment Program (ERAP) spanning 1989-94. In support of the Government's program,
the Bank prepared a US$75 million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) to underpin reforms in
the areas of trade, fiscal and monetary policies, agricultural development, and the social sectors,
including poverty alleviation measures.
2.    In September 1993, a TAL in the amount of US$2.5 million was approved in parallel with
a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) of US$50 million.1 The TAL became effective
January 13, 1994. In general, the TAL was designed as a complementary and parallel loan to
support SAL II. It was intended to assist the implementation of the Government's structural
adjustment program supported by SAL II and to establish the analytical basis for subsequent
phases of the reform program. Since it was expected that SAL II would be fully disbursed during
the Cristiani Administration, the TAL was expected to provide a bridge between the two
administrations and thus a vehicle to maintain the policy dialogue on the structural adjustment
agenda.
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
3.    Statement of Objectives. As stated in the Loan Agreement, the TAL's objectives were
to: (i) strengthen the Government's capacity to prepare, implement, and supervise policy reforms
under SAL II, assuring their long-term sustainability; (ii) provide the analytical foundation for the
preparation of further policy reforms; (iii) improve efficient resource allocation and informed
decision making; (iv) develop a more effective institutional and legal framework for environmental
and natural resource management, and related public and private decision-making; and (v)
upgrade service delivery and policy making in the social sectors.2
4. To achieve these objectives the Project consisted of the following seven components:3
* Public Sector Modernization (US$536,000). This component was intended to finance, in
conjunction with UNDP, the preparation of the Public Sector Modernization Action Plan
(PSMAP), including the draft laws and regulations, through:
A. Studies for the modernization of the public sector, including proposals on: (i) management
and administrative reforms, through instiltutional reordering and simplification of procedures
and administrative tasks; (ii) administrative decentralization and strengthening of municipal
management; (iii) privatization and deregulation; (iv) integrated financial management; and (v)
modernization of the Borrower's human resources and civil service management, including
proposals on arrangements for the central management of the civil service.
lAlthough the Bank had initially foreseen an overall cost of US$5.0 million, the Government requested a lower
amount since it believed that there was considerable dlonor technical assistance and wanted to limit external
indebtedness. The TAL was reduced accordingly to US$2.5 million.
2 According to the Memorandum of the President (MOP) and Technical Annex, the TAL's primary objectives
were to help coordinate and complement donor support by providing financing for technical assistance and related
equipment to: (i) strengthen the Government's capacity to prepare, implement and supervise policy reforms
supported by SAL II; and (ii) provide the analytical base for preparing further restructuring actions, within the
framework of public sector modernization and continued structural adjustment.
3The amounts disbursed per component are approximations. Borrower disbursement estimates total approximately
$1000 less than World Bank figures due to exchange rate conversions for the basket of currencies.



2
B. Pilot reviews of the Ministries of Agriculture (MAG), Finance (MFIN) and Public
Works (MOP), aimed to identify options for management improvement applicable to other
ministries.
* Public Expenditure Management (US$18,000). This component would provide
financing for the preparation of the multi-annual Sector Budget Plan for the Ministry of Public
Health and Social Assistance (MPHSA) and Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development (VMHUD), in the Ministry of Public Works as a programmatic budget structure
applicable to other ministries of the Borrower. The aim was to improve budget preparation
and accounting, strengthen expenditure prioritization and upgrade budget execution and
auditing.
* Human Resource Information System (HRIS) (US$665,000). This component was
designed to finance: (i) the implementation of the central HRIS in MIFIN, and, on a pilot
basis, of compatible local HRJS in MIFIN and MAG; and (ii) the transfer of existing salary
and personnel information from all ministries to the central HRIS.
* Tax Reform (Customs Administration) (US$810,000). This component was intended
to support the Tax and Customs Reform Program through the implementation of the
Automated System of Customs Data Development and Administration (ASYCUDA) in 10
customs locations to improve the efficiency and transparency of the processing of import
accounts.
* Environmental Policy Reform (US$119,000). This component would provide financing,
in conjunction with USAID, for the preparation of: (i) an Environmental Action Plan (ESAP);
and (ii) in conjunction with IDB, the development of the draft National Environmental Law
(NEL).
* Poverty Alleviation (US$194,000). This component was designed to fund: (i) the
preparation and implementation of a Social Sector Information System (SIS); and (ii) with
USAID, the institutional review of MSPAS.
. Project Implementation (US$65,000). This component was intended to provide
financing for procurement staff, computer and office equipment, to help strengthen the Project
Coordinating Unit's (PCU) local procurement capacity, ensuring that most of the contracting
of consultants and procurement of goods for reform efforts would be undertaken by this unit.
5.    A Program Manager was appointed in the Ministry of Planning. An Inter-Ministerial Unit
(IMU), comprised of executing agency counterparts, was established under the direction of the
Program Manager.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives. The TAL's objectives were consistent with the country
assistance strategy, the aim of which was to consolidate and deepen the adjustment process,
particularly through public sector modernization. The goal of supporting Government compliance
with SAL II Second Tranche release conditions was attained.4 The goal of supporting and
sustaining a wide range of state modernization reform initiatives across two administrations
The TAL's primary linkage to SAL II was to provide a series of outputs in compliance with 7 out of the 23 SAL
HI Second Tranche conditions. TAL-financed outputs contributed to the compliance with process indicators as
spelled out in the related conditions and thus compliance with these SAL II conditions did not warrant actual
implementation of structural reforms.



3
proved to be difficult. Overall sustainability across administrations of TAL-funded programs
depended, in large measure, on the incoming Administration's commitment to reform programs
espoused by the previous administration. In fact, although the newly appointed Council of
Ministers approved the PSMAP which had been prepared under the former administration, in
.practice, the orientation of the Calder6n Sol Administration's public sector reform agenda shifted
from some of the key public sector modernization efforts proposed in that Action Plan (see para.
11). Likewise, the development of a more effective institutional and legal framework for
environmental and natural resource management, another key objective, presumed that the draft
environmental law would be approved by the newly-elected Legislative Assembly, which did not
occur.
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.    The project substantially achieved all goals associated with  SAL II Second Tranche
conditions and provided the foundation to set in motion ongoing public sector reform initiatives.
Additionally, all legal covenants were comrplied with.5 However, in three out of the seven
components, the impact of the measures supported by the TAL was limited by the following: (i)
the quality and applicability of expected end-products were not always optimal (particularly in the
case of the TAL-financed Public Sector Modernization Action Plan); and (ii) some of the specific
reforms underpinned by the TAL were not implemented (i.e., public sector expenditure
management and environmental reform). The principal program outcomes are:
8.    Public Sector Modernization.  Attainment of public sector reform objectives was
partial. This was mainly due to changes in the reform agenda of the Calder6n Sol Administration.
Even so, all TAL outputs required to meet SAL II Second Tranche Release conditions were
completed.
9.    Joint TAL/UNDP funds supported the contracting of an international consulting firm that
directed reviews of MAG, MIFIN, and the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) and completed a
series of technical and preparatory studies encompassing divestiture, privatization, deregulation,
and civil service reform. Based on the findings of these studies, a privatization strategy6 and
PSMAP7 were submitted to the General Directorate of Social and Economic Policies (DGPES) in
April 1994 and July 1994, respectively. DIGPES concluded that the quality and scope were
inadequate and renegotiated the initial contract. To compensate for these deficiencies, the
consulting firm was required to provide DGPES with its "Sistema Analitico de Cambio
Operacional" (SICOP). This analytical tool was applied to assess the feasibility of proposed
reforms in the Vice-Ministry of Public Works by evaluating job posts and regulatory frameworks
in the Ministries of Health, Public Works, Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development.
10.   The quality of the TAL-financed PSMAP was weakened by DGPES' inability to assign
adequate Government counterparts to help prepare it. Lacking key ministerial inputs, the final
version did not have full Government ownership and commitment to proposed reform strategies,
and proved too general to apply to El Salvador's public sector reform needs.
11.   Later, these action plans were used by DGPES to formulate a far-reaching PSMAP, which
was approved by the newly-elected Government in September 1994' thus complying with SAL II
Second Tranche conditions; however it was never implemented. In May 1996 (two years after
5The status of legal covenants regarding compliance of individual components is presented in Table 7.
6"Estrategia de Privatizaci6n para El Salvador," April 1994.
"' Plan de Acci6n de Modernizaci6n del Sector Publico," July 1994.
8"Programa de Modernizaci6n del Sector Pblico," Ministerio de Planificaci6n, November 1994.



4
approval of the initial PSMAP), a revised action plan was approved by the Calder6n Sol
Administration. Although this version's coverage of the main reform initiatives comprises all
areas and guidelines encompassed in the previous action plan, in practice, the Government would
choose to de-emphasize institutional and civil service management reforms, mainly targeting the
privatization of ANTEL, the electricity distribution network, and the pension system.
12.   TAL funds further assisted the Government in preparing institutional restructuring
guidelines and TORs for consultancies that: (i) developed an overall assessment and "mapping" of
the public sector; (ii) proposed a new macro-institutional structure to eliminate functional
inconsistencies and overlaps; and (iii) formulated proposals to restructure and modernize targeted
ministries and decentralized institutions. These activities were completed in May 1996.
13.   The follow-on PSMTAL which was approved in September 1996, is geared to
strengthening the Government's capacity to implement this "new vision" of the State as reflected
in the PSMAP. Specifically, the findings of these TAL-financed studies together with the newly-
approved PSMAP are expected to provide the foundation for the development and
implementation of future PSMTAL-financed ministerial institutional restructuring plans.9
14.   The TAL/UNDP-financed PSMAP appeared to provide the DGPES (and ultimately the
Government) with an initial "blueprint" for its public sector modernization reform program.
DGPES, however, had to re-evaluate and reformulate all action plans, which negatively effected
the achievement rating of this component. For this reason, there is an ambiguity as to the impact
this version had on: (i) the quality, scope, applicability and implementability of DGPES' PSMAP;
and (ii) the overall effects it might have had on the ultimate adoption/continuity of reform
initiatives now contemplated in the newly approved version.
15.   Public Expenditure Management. Although all outputs associated with SAL II Second
Tranche conditions were completed, achievement of institutional development objectives is
uncertain. Consequently, fulfillment of objectives was partial.
16.   The bidding process delayed completion of the respective MTSBs by three months. A
national consultant was contracted with TAL funds and, with a DGPES counterpart, carried out
the respective studies and the proposed unified budget structures for the MOH and VMH, which
were completed in June and July 1994, respectively. The USAID-financed, 1994-96 MTSB for
MINED was completed in September 1994. All three pilot efforts and resulting budget structures
complied with Second Tranche conditions, however to date none have been incorporated into the
operations of these institutions. Failure to implement these operations would seem to reveal
insufficient borrower "buy in". In retrospect, this might have been avoided had greater attention
been given to informing the borrower of the benefits to be derived through the implementation of
these operations.
17.   TAL-funded outputs were not incorporated into the operations of these institutions; thus
benefits associated with implementing the unified budget structures and MTSBs in these ministries
were not attained.'0
9 Under the PSMTAL Institutional Restructuring Component.
10 In 1995, however, the Government enacted a new "Integrated Financial Management Law" (Ley SAFI) that
addressed most of these shortcomings effectively.



5
18.   Human Resource Information System  (HRIS).  This component substantially
achieved SAL II Second Tranche release conditions and additionally laid the foundation for future
Civil Service reform initiatives.
19.  Intemational consultants were contracted to develop and implement an HRIS and to
collect existing employment and payroll data (both manual and computerized) from two pilot
ministries (i.e., MIFIN and MAG) in order to direct evaluations/diagnostics of the existing
employment and salary regimes. Based on these efforts, a central HRIS office was instituted in
MIF1N and two pilot local personnel information systems were installed in MLFIN and MAG
according to agreed timetables. In addition, systems analysts were contracted and key personnel
received training in data entry and human resource management.
20.   Although the EIRS is still in the early stages of implementation, significant initial steps
were taken to lay the groundwork for strengthening the Govemment's capacity to administer,
monitor and control human resources. This is illustrated by the following: (i) MIFIN's central
office is currently equipped to collect and maintain civil service pay and employment data; (ii) six
central Government ministries and two autonomous institutions have adopted the HRIS; (iii)
budgetary data on approved posts have been loaded onto the HRIS system; (iv) data collection
modules (MRIs) have been implemented in all the ministries and institutions of the executing
agency and basic payroll and personnel file daita have been transferred to the central HRIS, thus
equipping the Government with a useful inv(entory of Civil Service personnel, job posts and
salaries; and (v) ongoing transfers of personnel information from all ministries are being carried
out -- although obtaining up-to-date information is difficult (see section below).
21.   Nonetheless, further progress has yet to be made in developing the system's capacity to
provide the Government with an efficient tool for capturing, monitoring, and controlling inter-
ministerial employment and payroll data. At present, the system's ability to disclose and
continuously update civil service employment and wage data faces two challenges: (i) MIFIN's
General Directorate of Human Resources (DGaRH) lacks the authority to compel ministries to
disclose pertinent information on a timely and regular basis; and (ii) the system's design lacks a
"unique identifier" for each employee, (relying instead on a composite of various identifiers), thus
limiting its ability to consistently prevent duplication, payroll irregularities, and fraud. In light of
this limitation, overall efficiency will be enhanced with the adoption of a unique number.
22.   Despite these shortfalls, prospects for the future development and utility of this system are
bright given the advances to date and the fact that the PSMTAL's Human Resources
Management Component is expected to address these challenges. Among the activities to be
financed under this component will be: (i) the expansion of HRIS coverage throughout all
Government entities; and (ii) ultimate linkage to payroll and integration with SAFI to provide the
Government with an indispensable tool for efficient human resource management and policy.
23.   Tax Reform (Customs Administration). This component substantially achieved its
objectives. The TAL financed consulting services, equipment, training and the implementation of
the Automated System of Customs Data Development and Administration (ASYCUDA) in 10 out
of the 11 customs locations. Although implementation of this component was delayed in the
initial stages by administrative bottlenecks, ASYCUDA was configured and installed in the
respective customs locations; procedures tailored to the needs of each location have been
adopted; and employees have been fully trained. Both ASYCUDA and the National Customs
Management Information System have been implemented on a national scale, facilitating the
development of a mechanism for effectively tracking external trade. The system now furnishes the



6
DGRA, MIFIN, the Ministry of Economy, the General Directorate of Statistics and Census and
the Central Bank with pertinent trade statistics relative to commodities as well as revenues.
Furthermore, it has made a major contribution to supporting the implementation of the SAL II
action plan, which is geared at strengthening and modernizing tax administration. ASYCUDA
also has developed into a customs management instrument that has promoted efficiency and
transparency in processing import accounts by systematizing tax information and customs
administration, thereby raising trade-related tax revenues.
24.   Future progress in the areas of tax and customs administration will be supported through
PSMTAL's Financial Resource Management Component which establishes strengthening of
customs administration as a primary objective. PSMTAL funds will support the Government in:
(i) revising normative guidelines, as well as the design and adoption of new norms and
procedures, and (ii) establishing an informatics system integrated in SAFI."1
25.   Environmental Policy Reform. Although this component generated all outputs required
to meet SAL II Second Tranche conditions, its achievement toward improving environmental
policies is partial.
26.   The TAL supported the Government in developing a National Environmental Strategy and
Action Plan (ESAP) through contracting an international natural resources economist who
directed a technical analysis of then current environmental conditions and strategies, and assessed
how micro- and macro economic policies, property laws, social policies, and population trends
affected natural resources and the environment. Subsequently, a team comprised of the TAL-
financed consultant and two SEMA specialists developed the ESAP. This provided the
Government with a comprehensive plan to guide policymaking for environmental and natural
resource management. This action plan ultimately enabled the Government to target programs
based on overall cost/effectiveness, cost/benefit analyses, productivity indicators, and implications
relative to public health. The resulting draft ESAP was approved by CONAMA in April 1994.
27.   The TAL also financed an international environmental lawyer to aid SEMA in drafting a
National Environmental Law (NEL) based on the ESAP. The resulting draft NEL provided a
comprehensive legal framework for regulatory measures geared to protect against both the
continuance of existing as well as potential environmental infractions. It also proposed the
respective restructuring of SEMA and CONAMA to promote institutional strengthening. In
compliance with SAL II conditionality, the draft Environmental Law was submitted to the
Legislative Assembly in May 1994.
28.   Although conditionality was met, the expected impact -- improved efficiency and
effectiveness of environmental policymaking and monitoring -- was never achieved, as neither the
above draft law nor any version thereof has been approved to date. This was because: (i)
following the elections of 1994, the environmental reform program, introduced by the incumbent
Government, lost its political attractiveness and thus the commitment of the newly-appointed
Legislative Assembly; (ii) a jurisdictional conflict resulted when the Supreme Court ruled that
under the Constitution, it alone enjoyed legal jurisdiction over environmental policies and sole
authority over their enforcement; and (iii) according to the current administration, the TAL-
financed draft Environmental Law was not tailored to El Salvador's needs, was excessively rigid
and punitive in nature, and had a number of gaps.
"El Salvador Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan, Technical Annex; p. 18. August 5, 1996.
The PSMTAL is jointly financed by the Bank and the IDB. Under this arrangement, the IDB finances the
Financial Resource Management Component.



7
29.   A revised draft of this law was jointly developed between the Legislative and Executive
Branches and was submitted to the Legislative Assembly in December 1996. Under this new legal
framework, a Ministry of the Environment has been created and the former SEMA will be
restructured giving way to a National Environmental Authority.12
30.   Even if the current Draft Environmental Law were to be approved and adopted, the
sustainability of the Environmental Policy Reform Program remains uncertain. The new law
defines environmental protection standards and regulations, but the National Environmental
Authority's main roles would be limited to: (i) formulating environmental strategies and
programs; and (ii) maintaining a supervisory and monitoring role, thus, depriving it of any power
to impose sanctions. Authority to assess puniltive damages and administer sanctions ultimately
will fall under the domain of the Judicial Branch and not the National Authority, as had been
anticipated. Under the new structure, the National Authority will give training to judges, state
attorneys, and lawyers in environmental regulations.
31.   Poverty Alleviation. Overall achievemLent of implementation conditions associated with
SAL II Second Tranche release and objectives aimed at improving the efficiency of resource
alocation, informed decision making and upgrading service delivery and policymaking in the
social sectors was substantial.
32.   USAID funds financed consulting services that carried out management and institutional
reviews of the Ministries of Education (ME)) and Health (MOH) to support the GAES in
developing a Poverty Alleviation Strategy and Action Plan for 1994-98. Social services managed
by these ministries were reviewed to better target and monitor poverty alleviation programs.
Subsequently, a Social Development Action Plan, was developed by GAES and incorporated into
the Economic and Social Development Plan 1994-1999. The Government's implementation
actions include: (i) increasing budget allocations to the social sectors in the 1995/96 budgets; (ii)
establishing health and education sector task forces to lead planned reformns; (iii) initiating the new
Bank-funded Basic Education Project; and (iv) expanding a Bank-sponsored program to
decentralize school management.13
33.   In addition, TAL funds were used to contract a computer firm to install equipment and
software (i.e., FOXPRO LAN and SPSSIIPC software) for the implementation of a centralized
SIS data base in the Ministry of External Relations' Directorate of Information (MER/DIO) to
target the provision of social services using needs-based criteria. This centralized system has been
implemented fully. It serves to: (i) identify key social trends; (ii) pinpoint priority reform areas;
and (iii) provide the foundation for the Government's Poverty Alleviation Plan. The DIO has
used this data in four studies to assess the general impact of the respective programs on social
indicators. 14
34.   This component substantiaRy achieved expected results. A detailed action plan in the
social sectors was developed and currently forrms the basis on which key social sector reforms are
being carried out. Also, it has proven to be a useful tool for the Government to process
population data, monitor trends in living standards, and prepare poverty statistics. Further
12 The title of this agency has yet to be defined.
13 Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3348-ES).
14 "Encuesta de Hogares de Prop6sitos Multiples" (1991-present) Directorate of Information, Ministiy of External
Relations; "Priorizaci6n de Municipios A Partir de Datos Censales," 1994; "Evaluaci6n del Programa de
Alimentacion Escolar," 1995; "Medici6n de las Metas de Media Decada," 1995.



8
improvement of statistical databases will be provided under the ongoing Social Sector
Rehabilitation PHRD grant. It is expected that the system will be used to target and support the
design and operation of future social programs during the operational phase.
35.   Project Implementation. This component substantially achieved its objectives. Two
additional staff members were hired and trained to strengthen the Project Coordination Unit's
(PCU) local procurement capacity and facilitate technology transfer. Although UNDP
procurement assistance, retroactive financing, and bridge financing were available to assist the
PCU in its procurement needs, the level of skill of newly incorporated staff, coupled with training
received under the TAL, minimized the need for external procurement and financial management
assistance. Approximately 80 percent of TAL contracts were paid directly from the World Bank
loan account since no special account had been established.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
36.   SAL II was designed so that reform measures could be completed during the Cristiani
Administration. The TAL not only aimed to assist the Government in implementing the reform
program, thus meeting Second Tranche conditionality, but was also seen by team members as an
instrument that would help bridge the two Administrations. It was felt that irrespective of who
won the elections, the new Government would have to confront a similar reform agenda,
especially in terms of public sector modernization. Since it was assumed that SAL II would be
fully implemented by the time the new Government took office, the TAL would provide a vehicle
to maintain continuity in policy dialogue and provide a substantial body of technical and analytical
work on which the incoming Government could base its reform program.
37.   Although the elections were won by the party in power, the new Government and its
economic team eventually designed a public sector reform program with markedly different
priorities. In addition, some initial Cabinet reshuffling and the replacement of key officials who
had led the reform effort, resulted in considerable delays in terms of developing a longer-term
reform program and deciding on key appointments. The Government's public sector reform
program maintained a focus on modernization of the state, but assigned high priority to moving
speedily on infrastructure privatization (telecommunications and power) and pension reform.
Inevitably, due to the technical and political complexity of these reforms, other aspects of state
modernization, on which the TAL had focused, initially received somewhat less attention.
D. Project Sustainability/Future Operation
38.   Project sustainability is considered likely. The TAL was foreseen as an initial step toward
the subsequent preparation of a more ambitious and longer-term reform program. Sustainability
prospects for reform initiatives geared to Institutional Restructuring, Human Resources
Management, Financial Management/Tax and Customs Administration, and
Privatization/PSP augurs well in that these reform areas are now encompassed in the US$24
million TAL for Public Sector Modernization, approved September 3, 1996. Additionally, the
IDB is preparing a policy based operation in support of a comprehensive Public Sector
Modernization Program (ES0036) totaling US$55 million. In July 1996, IDB approved a US$19
million Fiscal Administration Modernization technical assistance project which includes financing
to support: (i) the coordination of the Public Sector Modernization Program; (ii) improvements in
financial administration; and (iii) customs reform."5 USAID remains highly involved in the area of
Public Sector Modernization through its 'Modernization of the State Program," which
encompasses, among other areas, customs and judicial reforms. Sustainability prospects for these
'5IDB Document: "El Salvador: Servicios de Apoyo Regional ITC/IRO: Programa Tentativo de Prestamos."



9
efforts are enhanced by the current Administration's commitment to promoting economic growth
by continuing structural reforms and public sector modernization.
39.   The sustainability of poverty alleviatiion efforts seems likely. As noted in paragraphs 32-
33, there was substantial progress in meeting the objectives of the poverty component. The
pathbreaking reforms in basic education, the EDUCO program, are being supported through the
Bank's Basic Education Project. In addition, the Government has begun to rethink its poverty
reduction strategy, looking for ways to ensure greater community involvement and local
development. The Bank is currently preparing a project to reorient the activities of the Social
Investment Fund toward a greater focus on local development and the integration of social and
productive activities. Under a joint IBRD/II)B/ECLAC project, El Salvador will receive technical
support to improve its Living Standards Survey methodology and refine poverty estimates.
40.   Although delayed considerably, implementation of the environmental policy reforms
envisaged in the TAL, is likely. Passage of the new National Environmental Law, which was
submitted to the Legislative Assembly in I)ecember 1996, is expected shortly. The Bank's
follow-on PSMTAL will support environmenital audits of selected entities, particularly in power
generation, water/sewage and ports sectors. An IDB-financed US$30 million Environmental
Program (Programa Nacional del Med&o Ambiente - PAES), geared to improving the institutional
framework for environmental management was approved in 1995, and is now under
implementation. Additionally, USAID is now financing three programs to improve natural
resource management: (i) a US$20 million Environmental Protection Project (PROMESA),'6 (ii)
a US$2 million "Salvadoran Environmental NGO Strengthening Project"17 (USAID-519-0400);
and (iii) a US$0.5 million "Urban Pollution Project" (USAID-519-0426).18
E. Bank Performance
41.   Overall Bank performance proved  satisfactory.   Project design supported the
implementation of the Government's structural adjustment program and provided a bridge
between the two administrations. This allowed for continuity in the policy dialogue and provided
the incoming Government a basis on which it could define its strctural adjustment agenda.
Project management was satisfactory despite the fact that the project had three task managers
during its three-year lifecycle.
42.   Bank performance from identification through appraisal was satisfactory. The program
was in line with the Government's reform initiatives and consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy. Bank staff tapped into experience gained from previous LAC regional TA
operations, and through the design and implementation of SAL I. To minimize constraints to
efficient project execution, action plans for eatch component were prepared and agreed on; sector
divisions were directly involved at all stages of project preparation; and counterparts and their
respective responsibilities were mutually agreed. This attention to detail coupled with an
underlying spirit of mutual cooperation were of paramount importance in promoting the TAL's
overall success in meeting the conditions for SAL II Second Tranche release. However the
objectives of project activities were not uniformly defined in the President's Report and the Legal
16 "USAID Activity Porfolio: El Salvador May 6, 1997" -This project is aimed at halting and reversing
degradation of El Salvador's natural resource base.
17 Ibid. -This project is aimed at strengthening Salvadloran Environmental NGOs to be self-sustaining advocates
for natural resource management.
18 Ibid. - This project is geared toward providing objective, measurable data and solutions and to build consensus
among public and private institutions for addressing current urban and industrial environmental problems.



10
agreement project documents. Additionally project objectives did not provide a realistic
assessment of the impacts that could be derived from each of the components.
Bank performance throughout project supervision was satisfactory. Careful attention
was paid to ensure that activities related to SAL II would be carried out on time. In addition,
supervision of TAL implementation was effectively used to engage the incoming Administration
in a policy dialogue and to support the new economic team in defining their reform agenda. In
hindsight, it appears that staff could have focused greater attention on supervising the quality of
TAL-financed technical outputs. It is very likely that policy dialogue and discussions on the new
Government's reform agenda may have somewhat distracted attention from the actual outputs
financed by the TAL.
44.   Although the costs associated with this project appear relatively high, amounting to a total
of US$217,819,'9 given its importance in laying the groundwork for future reform initiatives,
evaluation of the TAL must depart from the traditional cost-based analysis. Moreover, Bank
performance must be gauged from the following two perspectives: Cost-effectiveness versus the
long-term cost-benefit prospects for future reform initiatives. Although as a "stand-alone"
project TAL cost-effectiveness would be rated as deficient, these same costs, when measured
against the broader benefits it has fostered (i.e., ongoing multilateral support of Government
reform initiatives), proves positive. The dedication of Task Managers and technical staff to
nurturing institutional development and organizational reform is evidenced by the fact that in a
span of 1.5 years a total of 11 missions were undertaken.20 In situ assistance not only ensured the
implementation of each of the project's components but also provided an opportunity to maintain
ongoing dialogues and negotiations with key Government agencies, which encouraged
Government commitment to the reform process and ultimately broadened and sustained the base
of support for reforms.
F. Borrower Performance
45.   Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. A core public sector reform
group established in GAES (later to be renamed DGPES), introduced and coordinated TAL-
supported activities. Despite a series of leadership changes throughout Government ministries,
this core group of expert staff would remain, thus ensuring the continuity of TAL-funded reform
efforts. This dedication would prove of paramount importance in ensuring that SAL II Second
Tranche release conditions were met, and in establishing the foundations for future public sector
reform initiatives. The TAL program would prove a key factor in promoting a culture of
information sharing between the GAES/DGPES and the respective ministries that succeeded in
minimizing the duplication of efforts and in promoting a higher level of operational efficiency
between the respective sectors.
46.   Borrower performance throughout preparation was satisfactory. From the outset,
special care was taken to work in unison with Bank staff to tailor a program which would pave
the way for future reform efforts. To optimize Government commitment and ownership of the
respective reform initiatives, concerted efforts were undertaken to develop mutually agreed
TORs, and work plans which specified timetables for actions to be taken prior to the SAL II
Second Tranche release. Individual ministerial counterparts were appointed to keep GAES' and
MIPLAN's management informed of the status of each of their respective components thus
ensuring timely implementation.
19 This is a highly conservative estimate as substantial gaps exist relative to staff weeks and resulting dollar
amounts for consultants without UPI numbers in the MISIBAS database.
20 These missions coincided with the preparation missions for the new PSMTAL.



11
47.   Performance throughout implementaition was satisfactory. DGPES took an active stance
as the change in Administration approached and worked intensively during the initial stages of the
new Government to reformulate the initial PSMAP into a version that was subsequently approved
by the Council of Ministers. However, DGPES was not fully effective in ensuring adequate
Ministry counterpart participation throughout the development of major TAL-financed outputs.
This probably reflected the public sector's limited capacity and lack of qualified staff. With the
advent of the new Government and subsequent appointment of new individuals, interagency
cohesion and communication channels which had proven so effective in ensuring implementation
of the reform program and TAL-financed activities, inevitably eroded and arrested the overall
reform momentum attained. Additionally, the new Government's public sector reform program
had markedly different priorities. Despite these setbacks, delays and uncertainties began to be
resolved toward mid 1995 and the public sector reform effort has made good progress since. Two
appointments were key to reactivating public sector reform: (i) a Presidential Commission for
Public Sector Modernization was created to coordinate the reform process; and (ii) a Cabinet-
ranked Presidential Commissioner for Public Sector Modernization was appointed to spearhead
these reform efforts. Since the latter's appointment, the PSM group has been strengthened and
converted into a powerful technical body.
G. Assessment of Outcome
48.   Although achievement of the major objectives was partial, the overall outcome of the
TAL-funded program is considered satisfactory since financed activities were key to securing the
Government's ability to comply with conditions for SAL II Second Tranche release.
Furthermore, despite the fact that expectations exceeded the potential impacts derived through
the execution of each of the respective comaponents, TAL-supported activities and outputs did
equip the Government with the foundation for building future reform strategies. Comprehensive
action plans and draft laws may well have been subject to modifications and changes in reform
priorities; nonetheless, these TAL-supported activities provided the Government with a
"blueprint" for the design of future reforms, avoiding the need to start the process from scratch.
H. Key Lessons Learned
- A clear and realistic definition ofprogram objectives is essential to ensure a common vision
of the long-term goals being sought and to measure ongoing progress. In the absence of such
clear objectives, ongoing assessment of progress attained and thus overall ability to remedy
project deficiencies may be hampered, undermining performance.
*  Objectives should be linked closely to a realistic impact assessment. In the event that these
objectives prove misaligned to TAL-financed activities, either: (i) they should be modified to
ensure that they are more in harmony with the impacts that can be attained realistically through
the various activities; or (ii) TAL-financed activities should be re-evaluated and modified
individually to ensure attainment of these objectives.
* A change in administrations during the life of a project may lead to delays in project
implementation as well as the likelihood of redefinitions in reform priorities, which may affect
long-term Government commitment to certain reform components and thus future sustainability.
* Bridge projects are susceptible to changes in the leadership of key agencies involved in the
reform process. Projects which rely highly on one individual to spearhead the reform effort are
especially vulnerable to changes in administration.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A.wAchievement ofObie                  SlT A  licabl                                                           I
Macro Policies                                                                                  4
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                                                            4
Institutional Development                                 4
Physical Objectives                   4
Poverty Reduction                     4
Gender Issues                                                                                   4
Other Social Objectives                                                                         4
Environmental Objectives                                  4
Public Sector Management                                 -4
Private Sector Development                                                                      4
Other (Conditions for SAL H           4
Second Tranche Release)
. .S  .. . .. . .                                                  .. ..  ... . . . . .   ..     ......  :  -- :-:-
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .     .. v...                 ...
t --:: - -g '- E ai i$B,''   0 ......P............ t n BBl
Identification                                                          4
Preparation Assistance                                                  4
Appraisal
Supervision                                                             4
Preparation                                                            44
Implementation 
Covenant Compliance                        4
B. Asssment of                           ''ti         .......



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
[.   :    ggB   B   B   -                :            :......... ...
$     S  ffi B  Bd~:0 A :.:..  ..........  . ..
= '.' ...,..........,,,,,,,,                                                     . .....  A
1. Structural Adjustment Loan    Support Government reform                1991        Closed June 1993
(Loan 3293-ES)            program
2. Social Sector Rehabilitation    Improve delivery of social services
Project Loan (Ln. 3348-ES)         in poorest municipalities                1991        Closed June 1997
3.Agricultural Sector Reform (Ln.  Institutional strengthening in
3576-ES)                           agriculture and improved research        1993        Under Implementation
and extension focused on small
farmers
.'aR ilel peraion""<''"''''''  2z                            S
1. Second Structural Adjustment    Continue reforms in SAL I and
Loan (SAL II) (Ln. 3646-ES)        support the development of a             1994        Closed January 1995
public sector modernization
program
|                      .R   .    R  RR  R   '    ' RR =' :: RRR R R " RR R R R Rn .n RR.a . .. .. . . ..
1. Energy Sector Modernization    Modernization ancd expansion of
Loan (Ln.3920-ES)                  power supply, pricing and                1996        Under Implementation
regulatory reform
2. Public Sector Modernization     Support public sector                                Effective March 1997
Loan Technical Assistance Loan    modernization program, continuing         1997        Under Implementation
(Ln.4082-ES)                       reforms in SALIH
3. Competitiveness Enhancement   Support the business environment
Loan (Ln.3946-ES)                  and the Government's                     1996        Under Implementation
globalization strategy
4. Basic Education Loan            Promote greater equity, quality and      1996        Under Implementation
(Ln.3945-ES)                       efficiency in the provision of
education services.



14
Table 3. Project Timetable
Identification                    October, 1993               October, 1993
Preparation                       March, 1993                March 14, 1993
Appraisal                         June, 1993                 June 30, 1993
Negotiations                      August, 1993               August, 9, 1993
Board Presentation                September, 1993             September 14, 1993
Signing                           September, 1993            October 21, 1993
Effectiveness                     October, 1993              January 13, 1994
Project Completion                December 31, 1995          March 31, 1996
Loan Closing                      June 30, 1996               September 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY94         FY95      FY96        FY97
Appraisal Estimate (cumulative)   1500.0    2,200.0   2,500.0
Actual (Yearly)                452.2        1,242.3     552.0       161.4
Actual (Cumulative)            452.2        1,694.5   2,246.5    2,407.9
Date of Final Disbursement: December 11, 1996



15
Table 5. Studies Included in the Project
1. Report on Privatization and Deregulation    To support the development  Completed 4/94    Incorporated into PSMAP approved by
and Civil Service Reform                  of a PSMAP                                      Govermment September 1994 but never
implemented. These key areas targeted by
l ________________________________        ______________________                           newly    approved   PSM AP
2. Pilot Review of the Ministry of        To support the development    Completed 4/9/94    Findings incorporated into PSMAP approved
Agriculture (MAG)                         of a PSMAP                                       September 1994 but never implemented
3. Pilot Review of the Ministry of Finance  To support the development    Completed 4/15/94   Findings incorporated into PSMAP approved
(MIFN)                                   of a PSMAP                                       September 1994 never implemented
4. Pilot Review of the Ministry of Public  To support the development    Completed 4/22/94   Findings incorporated into PSMAP approved
Works                                     of a PSMAP                                       September 1994 but never implemented
5. Pu w'   c   S.o: *mA.OA;:_fl "         A;o P Tav p LA&, iwtuliuaufo AUpap.-ve  This  ved  I ir.le.- ionJ1L er.4.e bLJI1-utL1fLLorr UUL iUkikI e
the incoming Government to   Government in      basis of a more prioritized PSMAP
develop and implement and    September, 1994
Public Sector Modernization   fufiling conditions
Program                     for SAL II Second
Tranche release
6. Development of New Unified Budget      To achieve more efficient   * Unified Budget for  Have not been implemented in these ministries,
Structures for Ministry of Health (MOH) and   resource allocation and  MuH c994 e         thus have not achieved expected impacts(i.e.
Vice-Ministry of Housing (VMH)            informed decision-making    Junie 19 9.         greater efficiency in resource allocation,
and to support the          * VlH - completed  informed decisionmaking, improved budget
development of Medium-      July 1994 fulfilling    preparation, accounting, strengthened
Term Sectoral budgets.      cd Second TrarchS    expenditure prioritization, etc.)
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                R elease
7. Development of Medium Term Sectoral    To achieve more efficient   same as above.      Have not been implemented in these ministries,
Budgets for Ministry of Health (MOH) and  resource allocation and                          thus have not achieved expected impacts(i.e.
Vice-Ministry of Housing (VMH)            informed decision-making                        greater efficiency in resource allocation,
informed decisionmaking, improved budget
preparation, accounting, strengthened
l _______________________________         _____________________        _______________     expenditure   prioritization,  etc.)
8. Implementation Strategy and Action Plan                                                 Completed and formed foundation for design
for Central HRUS in MIFIN                                                                  and implementation of central HRIS in MIFIN.



16
. ,r...........................                                                                       .............................
9. Implementation Strategy and Action Plan                                             Completed and formed foundation for design
for local HRIS in MIFIN and MAG                                                        and implementation of local HRIS in MIEN
and MAG.
10. Draft Environmental Strategy and Action   To help focus future  Completed 02/1994.  Formed the foundation for the Draft National
Plan                                    Govemnment policies,                           Environmental Law which was submitted to
regulations and investment    Approved by     the Legislative Assembly in May 1994. Draft
decisions in priority areas  Congress 04/94   law was not approved. New version was
with the application of    Fulfilled conditions   submitted to Assembly in December 1996.
cost/benefit, cost-       for SAL II Second    Awaiting outcome.
effectiveness, and other   Tranche release
analytical methods.
Furthermore, to form basis
for drafting of Envirornental
Law
11. Draft National Environmental Law    To offer legal foundation for   Completed 02/1994.  Has not been approved to date. Expected
the management of the     submitted to        impacts not attained.(see above)
environment and thus ensure  Assembly 15 1994
that environmental issues
become integral part of    Fulfilled conditions
public sector decisionmaking  for SAL II Second
Tranche release
12. Management and Institutional Reviews of  To support the development   Studies and unified   Have not been incorporated into operations,
Ministry of Health (MOH); and Vice Ministry  of the Government's   budget structures    thus impact associated with implementation
of Housing in Ministry of Public Works  National Poverty Alleviation   carried out     (i.e.,, greater efficiency in resource allocation
(VMH);                                  Strategy by offering       completed. MOH-    and informed decision-making; improved
empirical support for the  6/1994; VMH        budget preparation and accounting;
Government to better target   7/1994          strengthening of expenditure prioritization; and
and monitor its poverty    Fulfilled SAL 1    accelerating and improving budget execution
alleviation programs.      Second Tranche     and accounting were not attained.
release conditions



17
Table 6: Project Costs
l ~~it-- em                       Costs        Cost                      Costs       Ctosts.v  
1. Consultant Services               0.32         1.04         1.36         0.18          1.26          1.44    l
2. Equipment/Goods                   0.14         1.00         1.14         0.38         0.59           0.97
3. Total Bank-Financed Cost          0.46         2.04         2.50         0.56          1.85          2.41
Government and Parallel                                        3.80                                     3.80
Financing__                         _  _ _ _   __ _  _ _   __ _  _ _ _   __ _  _ _   __  _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _  _
TOTAL Project Cost                                            6.30                                     6.21



18
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
El Salvador
Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3648-ES)
Loan 3648-ES     2.02        3        C                                   The amount of the loan may be withdrawn  Fulfilled.
from the loan account in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (as amended
719/94) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
2.03       13       C         6/30/96        9/30/96     The closing date shall be June 30, 1996, or  Extended 06/26/96
such later date as the Bank shall establish   Fulfilled
3.01(a)      5        C                                   Government to carry out project timetable as Project timetable formally amended
in Schedule 5 (as amended) and provide    7/9/94 (See Section on Schedule 5)
resources as needed for the project.  Fulfilled.
3.02       5        C        10/21/93                   Procurement to be carried out as per   Fulfilled
Schedule 4
3.03(a)      5        C        10/21/93                   Borrower to set up an Inter-Ministerial Unit Fulfilled
(UIM  to manage project implementation
and a Project Coordination Unit (UCP) to
manage administrative aspects of the
project, in particular procurement                                        l
3.03(b)      5        C        10/21/93                   UIM and UCP to be headed by a Project    Fulfilled
Manager and Project Technical Director,
respectively, with qualifications, experience,
fanctions, and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank and assisted by adequate staff.
3.03(c)     5        C        10/21/93                    Each executing Ministry to maintain project Fulfilled.
coordinators/counterparts with qualification,
experience, functions, and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank
3.03(d)     10        C       10/21/93                    Borrower to provide funds, facilities,  Fulfilled
services, and other resources as needed for
project implementation



19
3.03(e)     5        C        10/21/93                   Borrower to maintain adequate amount of   Fulfilled
qualified staff in executing Ministries to act
as counterparts to consultants employed
under the project
3.04(a)     9        C                                   Borrower to promptly furnish copy of   Fulfilled
consultant findings and recommendations to
the Bank upon completion of each service
3.04(b)     9        C                                   Borrower to allow Bank reasonable      Fulfilled
opportunity to comment on findings and
recommendations of consultants.
3.04(c)     9        C                                   Borrower to review and implement, as the   Fulfilled
case may be, action plans in accordance with
consultant recommendations once Bank's
comments taken into account
3.05       9        C        11/10/93                   Borrower to remit, no later than 10 working  Fulfilled
days after the end of each month, a sumnnary
report on implementation progress.
3.06(a)     9        C         12/31/94    11/28/94-12/7/94 Borrower to undertake, in conjunction with  Fulfilled
the Bank, a mid-term review of the project.
3.06(b)     9         C                                  Borrower to take remedial action, if   Fulfilled.
necessary, as result of midterm review
4.01(a)     1        C                                   Borrower to maintain records and separate  Fulfilled
accounts reflecting resources and
expenditures with respect to the project in
accordance with sound accounting practices
4.01(b)(i)    I        C                                   Borrower to have the records and accounts  Fulfilled
referred to above audited for each fiscal
year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles and by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank
4.01(b)(ii)   1         C                                   Borrower to furnish to the Bank no later    Fulfilled
than six months after the end of fiscal year,
audit report
4.01(b)(iii)  1         C                                   Borrower to furnish to the Bank other  Fulfilled
information concerning said records and
accounts an the audit report as reasonable
requested from time to time



20
4.01(c)(i)    1        C                                 Borrower to maintain records and accounts  Fulfilled
reflecting expenditures made with respect to
the project
4.01(c)(ii)   I        C                                 Borrower to retain, until at least one year    Fulfilled
after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was
made, all records, (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing expenditures.
4.01(c)(iii)   I       C                                 Borrower to enable Bank representatives to  Fulfilled
examine such records.
4.01(c)(iv)   1        C                                 Borrower to ensure that such records and    Fulfilled
accounts are included in the annual audit,
and that such audit contains a separate
opinion by auditors as to whether the SOEs
submitted during such fiscal year can be
relied upon for the related withdrawals.
Schedule 1         1         3        C                                 Categories for procurement which allow for  Borrower allocated funds from the
up to US$1 million to finance goods, US$1.2 unallocated category to the services
million to finance consulting services and   category.
training, and US$.3 million unallocated  Fulfilled.
3         3        C                                 No withdrawals to be made for payments    Fulfilled
made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except for withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$625,000,
which may be made in respect of Categories
1 and 2 of the table in paragraph 1 of this
schedule on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June
.___________   ___________ 30,  1993.
Schedule 5      Part A       10       CD       1/31/94        2/18/94    Review and make comments of the first draft (Bidding invitation delayed start of
reports on: privatization and deregulation;   consultancy)
modernization of the civil service; and pilot
ministry reviews in MAG, MIRAC, and
MOP
- -                                                                                                 __ __ _..



21
Part A      10       CD        2/28/94    4/9,15, 22/94   Submission of the final reports for the areas (Bidding invitation delayed start of
mentioned above                      consultancy)
Part A      10       CD        3/18/94        4/29/94     Submission of first draft of the Public Sector Completed
Modernization Action Plan.
Part A      10       CD        3/31/94        6/30/94     Submission of final Public Sector     Bidding Invitation delayed start of
Modernization Action Plan             consultancy.
PART B       10       CD        1/15/94        6/30/94     Preparation of preliminary sector budget    Bidding invitation and administrative
plan for MSPAS and VMV                bottlenecks in pilot ministries delayed
start of consultancy. It was formally
agreed that his component should be
completed by end-April, 1994 in order
for the Govt. to comply with SAL II
conditionality
PART C       10       C         6/30/94                    Implementation of the central Human   Completed.
Resource Information System in MIHAC,
and compatible local pilot systems in MAG
and MIHAC
PART C       10       C         6/30/94        11/30/94    Transfer of existing salary and personnel Information from ministries deficient.
information from all the ministries to the MIHAC lacks authority to compel
Central  Human  Resource  Information ministries to provide and update data on
System                               timely basis
PART D       10       CD        5/15/94        01/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at    Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Santa Ana Customs Location            phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
delayed initiation of this component.
PART D       10       CD        5/15/94        02/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at Las Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Chinamas Customs Location             phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
delayed initiation of this component.
PART D       10       CD        6/15/94        02/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at    Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Hachadura                             phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Customs Location                      Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
delayed initiation of this component
PART D       10       CD        11/15/94       07/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at    Administrative bottlenecks in the first
San Cristobal Customs Location        phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
delayed initiation of this component.



22
mmm ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    . .   .'... '."" .." '''--
PART D       10        CD        1/15/94        09/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at     Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Angiatu Customs Location               phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Conalapa
delayed initiation of this component.
PART D       10        CD        3/31/94         11/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at El  Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Poy Customs Location                   phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
l_______           _   ______    ____________                  ________________________________       delayed  initiation  of this  component.
PART D       10        CD        5/15/94        03/01/96    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at     Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Amatillo Customs Location              phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
delayed initiation of this component.
PART D       10        CD        5/15/94        01/01/95    Implementation of SIDUNEA system at La  Administrative bottlenecks in the first
Union Customs Location                 phases of SIDUNEA in the customs of
Acajutla, San Bartolo, and Comalapa
|_______    ________    _______                                ________________________________          delayed  initiation  of this  component.
PART D       10        CD        5/15/94        01/01/95    Include Customs of San Bartolo, Acajutla,  Eligibility of financing for equipment
and Comalapa in the TAL                maintenance and training requested for
three additional customs locations. This
revision did not affect the budget due to a
modification of the volume of equipment
needed for implementation in the other 8
customs, based on experience in
implementation of the first phase of the
________                                                                                                     activity with UNDP and Government funds.
PART E       10        C         3/31/94         4/29/94     Preparation of Environmental Action Plan   Drafts of the Action Plan and Law
and the Draft Environmental Law.       completed in February 1994, Final version
of draft Action Plan approved by Congress
April 1994. National Environmental Law
submitted to Legislative Assembly May
1994. Law never approved
PART F       10        CD        1/31/94        12/331/94    Preparation and implementation of a Social Delays in procurement procedures led to
Information System (SIS).              longer implementation period. Also the
TAL supported ongoing assistance for this
component through June 1996.
~          -             - _D



23
Covenant types:
1.= Accounts/audits                  8. =Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
generation from beneficiaries   10. = Project implementation not covered
3. = Flow and utilization of project      by categories 1-9
funds                           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
4. = Counterpart funding                  or other resource allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
or executing agency                  regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants         13. = Other
7.= Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C= covenant complied with
CD  =    complied with after delay
CP  =    complied with partially
NC  =    not complied with



24
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Sa .t'P     t    e
Preparation to Appraisal                     30.9              47,351
Appraisal-Negotiations                       11.9             37,889.
Negotiations through Board Approval          5.3               17,256
Supervision                                 45.2              110,629
Completion                                   2.0               4,694
TOTAL                                      95.3              217,819
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Stag of P o eM                    to................... .............    y 
Through Appraisal         March, 14, 1992-           6            42.0
June 30 1993
Appraisal through Board   June 30, 1993-October      5            21.0
Approval                  21, 1993
lBoard approval through    September 14,1993-        n/a            n/a
Effectiveness             January 13, 1994I
Supervision               March 18. 1994- May        14           78.5
l                   ~~~~~~~10, 1996
Completion                December 9-13,1996-        2             10.0



ANqNEX I
Aide Memoire
World Bank Implementation Completion Mission
to Evaluate the Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3648-ES)
that Supported the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3646-ES)
San Salvador, El Salvador, December 9 through 13, 1996
The completion mission, comprised of Antonio Martin del Campo and Maria del Carmen
Minoso, interviewed staff of the beneficiary agencies (list attached). The mission appreciates the
support provided by both Government officials as well as staff of the Technical Coordinating Unit
of the Presidential Commission for Public Sector Modernization.
The Project was partially successful in meeting the general objectives established in the
Loan Agreement signed between the Govenament of El Salvador and.the World Bank. It is
doubtful that the Government would have been able to comply with all Second Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL II) conditions without the support of this Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL).
The following pages provide a summary of the main assessments made by the
Government, the Bank, as well as other donors involved, relative to Project implementation
results:
1.    The mission confirmed that in general, all programmed activities were carried out in each
of the Project's components (although not always in accordance with initial timetables); outputs
were produced, and expected impacts went in the desired direction. Although release of the
Second Tranche of the Structural Adjustment Loan would require partial waiver of two out of the
23 conditions, TAL activities contributed to the Borrower's ability to comply with SAL II
conditionality.
2.    The project in question also provided an analytical foundation for the preparation of future
reforms. Nonetheless, some of the planned reforms financed with the TAL were either
reformulated or deferred. This sheds doubt on sustainability prospects of some of the Project's
results/contributions.
3.    The Government acknowledges thalt the Project made an important contribution to
creating the dynamics and culture favorable to public sector modernization. It furthermore
promoted the development of a critical mass of technicians who are currently involved in
modernizing the different public agencies. The Government indicated that the Project created a
culture of information sharing relative to reform experiences within the different agencies which
has (i) prevented duplication of efforts; (ii) generated economies of scale; and (iii) fostered a
higher level of operational efficiency within the respective sectors. The assistance provided by
other donors, in particular IDB, UNDP and USAID was also of paramount importance to the
success of this project.
4.    The first component, "Public Sector Modernization," financed studies which contributed
to the preparation of a Public Sector Modernization Action Plan. Although this Plan was



26
approved by the Government in September 1994, it was never implemented as such, as the
Government subsequently decided to prioritize some of the reform areas encompassed in the Plan.
Furthermore, the Plan lacked a precise implementation program and project timetables were not
adopted.  Presently, reform  efforts prioritize the privatization of ANTEL, the electricity
distribution network, and pension system reform, while institutional and civil service management
reform initiatives are being prepared and will be financed under recently approved IDB and Bank
operations. This Plan was revised and a new version which is more specific in its definition of
reform actions and maintains the same coverage of the initial reform areas, was approved in May
1996 (see Public Sector Modernization Program. If the reforms being implemented were
consolidated and the initial reform agenda maintained, this output would have generated the
initially expected results/impact, and sustainability prospects would improve substantially.
5.    The second component, "Public Expenditure Management" (which focused on the social
sectors), although successful in producing the intended outcomes, was not effectively
incorporated into the operations of target institutions (Health, Education, and Housing).
6.    "Human Resource Information System (HRIS)," the third component, was effective in
developing and establishing HRIS' at the central level as well as in two pilot ministries; while this
system is still in the process of being implemented on a general scale (six government ministries
and two autonomous institutions have adopted the system). Although the HRIS Project has
succeeded in establishing a general system of employment and salary data collection, the system is
ineffective in securing the ongoing transfer of up-to-date personnel information from all
ministries, given that MIFIN's General Directorate of Human Resources (DGRH) lacks the
authority to compel ministries to disclose pertinent information on a timely and regular basis.
Both factors have served to limit HRIS' effectiveness as a mechanism to monitor and control
public sector employment and salaries. Additionally, the system's design lacks a "unique
identifier" for each employee, and is therefore ill-suited to prevent duplications and other sources
of irregularities. On the other hand, little or no progress has been made in the area of human
resource management reform, and in fact, none has been attained in reforming public sector
employment and salary regimes. The new Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance
Loan is expected to support further development of these areas.
7.    "Tax Reform  (Customs Administration)," forth component. The TAL financed the
establishment of the Automated System of Customs Data Development and Administration
(ASYCUDA) in 10 out of the 11 customs locations. Although the implementation process took
longer than initially planned, this system currently serves as a fundamental customs management
tool. It has furthermore facilitated the simplification of customs administration and has reduced
discretionality and improved budgetary control and effectiveness. Throughout the last 2 years,
implementation of ASYUDA, has acted as a catalyst to promoting the General Direction of
Customs Administration's (DGRA) adoption of a comprehensive modernization and reform
strategy which includes additional adaptations to its legal framework and customs regulations;
procedural improvements; the consolidation of control mechanisms; the contracting out of
services (privatization); institutional reforms and personnel development.
"Environmental Policy Reform," fifth component. Drafts of "Environmental Protection
Laws" and "National Environmental Strategy and Action Plan (ESAP)" were prepared with TAL
financing. In April 1994, CONAMA approved the Action Plan, and in May of that same year the
draft Law was submitted to the Legislative Assembly. Nevertheless, the draft Law was never
approved and the 1994 Action Plan was never implemented. The Assembly and Executive Branch
have jointly prepared a new draft "Environmental Law," which in the Government's opinion is



27
better suited to national needs, as it considers that the previous draft was too rigid, excessively
punitive and had a number of important gaps. TChe Government will provide the Bank with a copy
of the new draft law and the Bank will provide its comments on this new draft law. In any case,
the Government acknowledged that the techmical assistance provided under his component,
contributed to the development of a new environmental policy. Additionally, ongoing 1DB and
USAID assistance in the areas of environmental policy, and legal and institutional reforms should
also be highlighted.
9.    "Poverty Alleviation," sixth component. Supported the development and implementation
of the "Social Information System," a data lprocessing tool which allows the Govermnent to
monitor living standards and poverty trends. T'he operational phase will seek to link results more
closely to the design and operations of social programs as this has yet to be accomplished.
This Aide Memoire was prepared during the completion mission and is based on
discussions with representatives of those agencies that received TAL financing. The official
version of this document will be annexed to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The
mission findings reflected in this Aide Memoire will be subject to the approval of World Bank
management.
Government representatives and mission members discussed the contents and structure of
the final report being prepared by the Government. In mid January 1997, the Government will
send a draft version to the Bank. A preliminary ICR will be ready at the close of that month. The
Government would like to discuss these reports with UTC experts and the Presidential
Commissioner for Public Sector Modernization in the first half of February 1997.
(Original Spanish Version Signed)          (Original Spanish Version Signed)
Lic. Alfredo Mena Lagos                     Dr. Antonio Martin del Campo
Presidential Commissioner                   Mission Leader
for Public Sector Moderization              The World Bank



I



ANIMt I
Anda Moorla
Misi6n dd Banco Mundl pan Ia EvaIuac6 do la Rjecci6n
dl Proyecto de Asiatenca T&cnica (PrMao 3648ES)
que Apoy6 di Segundo Programs de Ajute atructuraI (pr&sto 3646-ES)
San Savador, I SAlvador, idel 9 id13 da diciembre de 1996
La mid6n de evaluad6n inegada pot Antonio Martin del Campo Y Maia del Cmen
Muoso se entrevi  con fimeionarios delts eIn ada  benefii    de esta operac6 (ista de los
fi=mioTios a=a). La mWi6l6a agmdee a las aridades del Gobierno de El SaIvador asi coma
a los fincionarios de la Unidad Tdcnica de Coordinh  de I Coriin Prodeci  pa  I&
Mhodnzc6  del Seaor Nblico, cI apoyo pruado, m=o  quo d&urn6  Ia coctviad de sOS
trabajos.
El Proycto logr6 de mano  prcial los objodvos generes establecidos en el Convznio do
Pristamo del BawCo M.ndiaL  Es dudoso que ei Gobiemo hubisa podido  amg& co  la
condiioualidad del Segundo Cr6dito de Ajuste Esuuctuul (SAU) sin @d apyo de eat Proyeco
de AistSaia Tdcnica (TAL).
A coacis sesenta un reumanet de las principals ap         as del Gobiemo y el
Banco, asi como de otros donantes Involucrado, rupecto de ls reyltadode la ejemuciq n del
Prayecto:
I.    En genoral pama todos los componentus del Proyco  es posible constatar qua las
actMdades programadas so reaizaron (aunq  no mimpre de acuedo al cronograma iniclm
proyectado), los productos fueron produios6 y lo0 impactos esperados Amon en la drei6n
deseada. Los resuhados de la asistencia covrbueon a que .1 Prntstalo cunpliera. con la
condicionalidad establocida en el Segundo Pristamo de Ajute Estrucual, cruyo segundo trUmo
se desembols6, xi bien requiri6 la dispensa parcial de dos de las veinttrs acciones convemdes.
2.    El proyecto de asistencia en considerA6n, tanbi6 provey6 una base analitica par la
preparacion de faturas refomas. Sin embargo, una prts de las refrmas qua fieran plandas
con el apoyo de esta asisteacia feon rfomldas ylo difida. Boo cuestiona la posMe
sosteniilidad de parte de los resultadoe/contribucin.s dd Proyecto.
3.    El Gobiema  reconoce que el Proyacto conibuy6 de manara importane a crmr una
dinimica y cultura favorables a la modeamrzaci6n del sector p6blico.  Ademis, ficlI   la
incorporaci6n de una maa citica do tEcnlcos quo esti conribuyendo ala modoaizaci6 en
diveruas entidades pdbIicas. El Gobiemo in"  quo al Poysocto cO  one las entidades uns
cultura de compariW6n de la infozna6i an re ida  a sus axwexnp  de reforma qU ha
evitado duplicaciones de esfuerZo, gmerad onoma de escala y propiiado =  ayOr ni  de
eficencia operacional eztre sectores. En cem proceso ha sido findmmntal tambi6 It auistuda
proporcionada por otros donantes, en pariculr 30D, PNUD y USAID.



2 
4.    El prie  componento, "Modernizacift  del Sector PbfiS, elabor6 estudios quo
cornibuyeron a la preparaci6n de un Plan de Acci6n para la Modlichnk  del Sector Piblico.
Este Plan, si bien &o aprobado por e1 Gobierno en septianbr. de 1994; como tal, no fiue puesto
en prictcA dado que posetord   se decid16 dar pods d. s6lo a agunas de las jrea  de
refoima comprendidas on el Plan Ademia dl Plan carwa de uza visi6n programitica precisa y
los cronogramas asociados no flieron adoptados. Bn ia actaldad,  forma eot priorizawdo la
privatici6n de AYTE  y la red do distWbuci6n 01ctrica, ad como la reforms del stema de
siones, mientras quo la implementacl6 do las reforma instu-on s y gorncial del sector
pdiblico aft se enua   en an laAe de preparaci6n y seri fnacisdas confo  tde las
operaciones recientemente aprobadas del BM yel Banco Mundial. Dicho Plan fi revsado y una
uoa versl6n que mantiene la coberta do las iro     mte cor das y que es mis
espocifca en la defn1ci6n do las acciones de reforma, fo aprobads    mayo de 199  (vor
Programs de Modeiza6n del Sector PNblico). De consolidarse las reformas en curso y
nantencrse Ia cobetura iicig aunque algunas ires fueran d;<idas, se proyoctufmn lus
contzibuciones del Proyecto y se mejoraria sub  Sanul sostedad.
5.    E1 segundo compont "Programaci6n y Ejeci4n del Gasto Ptbloo (enfocado ean los
cores socidaes), si bien gener6 los productos planeados no to efetivamente   rado a los
trabajos de las insA zdones folizas (Saud, Educeci6n y Vtivenda).
6.    "Sistema de Informacai6t de Pcos 1uamnos (S)m", ter  componte, Ae eecdo
en el desanolo a implantaui6n del 3H a nivel ceWal y en dos casos pilotos, vientras quo el
establecimiento goneralizado del SIHUI esti en proeeso (6 minmstedos y 2 intituciones aut6nomas
lo han adoptado). Aunque el Proyeto SIMH lor6 genea     s  plantaCi6n de un m6dulo de
oapurs do los datos bisoos del smpIso y  aIioe, 0l mocanlsmo acal aim es insu filats por el
hecho de que la Oficin del Proyeoto de  odo    =c  de It   itain  do Recsos
Humanos, adscrit al MInisterio de Hacienda, no tion Is capWdad pam obWi  quo las enidades
cumplmn oportuna y recarmete con la entrp de la infomaci6n para la consofidaci6n do la
rnima Ambos fictores han Imado ls ofoctidad del SIR  cmeM  mecan1smo de monitoreo y
control del emplac y los slalios en el sector piblio.   e,   1 diseo del sisten  no
incopora un indeztficador inico parm cada emplaado, por tow, no amta con la capaoidad para
A&r1vRtafmtr. impflir dipliMrwinnm y otras fizes de irraguaidada, Par ot  lado. poso o Qaai
usda se ha podido a zar en la robrms garenll de la aduiisaoi6nde los rrsos humnanos y.
de hecho, nada en la reform  eoctiva de los regWmnbs de emplao y sdaaios ni el sector ptlblioo.
Estas tares pendientes estin proyectads a ser trolladas con 01 componente reapocivo del
nuevo prstamo de asistencia pam la Modernizacthc del Sector Pfiblico.
7.    "eforma Tributaria (Modenizacian de AduanaY', cano compone. La astencis
apy6 la implantai6n del SUNEAen IO dela Ia 1 Ad          del pais. Si bien el procese de
implantaci6n se proloo rnis tiempo de Ia inicamnt planoado, en la actualidad d dstem  as
una herramienta fundamena de Is sest6n aduanor, ha ailitado la simplicacin y rdcido la
disCreconalidad, asi como moorado  e1 control y Is efeceMdad de is fiscalizaci6n.
Adicionmuento, Is implantacl6 del SDUI!MA ha sido un calzador para que la Direcci6n
General de Is Reat de Aduanas (DGRA) hay adoptado, en los itimos dos Mori us eutaegia
ngral de moderiiza6n y reforma que comprone adecuacaonos adlonalas del marco jurdico
y de la normativa aduancra, el mejoramiento procedimental, l consolidaci6n de los mcanismos
do controt Is la ernalizadi de sevicos (privatizaci6n), as como la reform  tnsitucional y el
dosarrollo de su personal.



3-
8.    "Reforma de la Poliia Ambiental", quinto componene. So claboraron bowradores de
proyectos de 'Ley de Protecci6n del Medio Ambien y de Estmtegia Nacional y sa Plan de
AcciE6L La CONAMA aprob6 el Plan de Accl6n en abril de 1994, y en mayo delismo f&o Be
present6 a Ia Asamblea LegisWativa el proyeclo de Ley mencionado. Sin embargo, el proycto de
Ley no fuie aprobado y eI Plan de Acci6n de 1994 no ti  pueato en ptca. La Asambe
organiz6 una consulta y en coordinaoidn con el Ejlidvoa so ba claborado un nuevo proyecto de
'ey Marco del Modio Ambi$e", on opinoin del Gobierno el nuevo proyecto a mhs l6eo,
dado quo se coaidera que el proyecto antsrior era muy rigido, ex=eWivamante punitivo y toeLa
vados importantes. El Gobierno proporcionar uns copia 44 nuevo proyceto de Ley Mao al
Bno; la misi6n gestionar una opini6n t6oia, formal del Banco sobre el ruevo proyet de
Lqy. En cuilquier caso, se reconoce qw la asistencia del components contribuv6 al douallo  e
una numva policL Adicio    te, deben destacarse las contribuciones del 1ID y USAD quo
continilxm proporcionando asistencia a la refonva de la polftica ablental y de su marco judrWdic
institucioxaL
9     "Alimo a la Pobreza', sexto componente. Apoy  el desarrollo e i nta6n del
"Sistea= de Iformaci6n Social" qua usla herramienta de Gobiomo pam procesr Il informaci6a
que la pemite monitorear la evoluci6a de los niveles de vida y la pobreza. Pam conolida las
contribuciones del componate en la &ae operalonal se buscari vincular mins ss rehados al
diseno y operai6n do programas sociales, hat el momeinto, esto 61timo no se ha logrado.
Esta Ayuda Mmoria ha ddo preparada durante la misi6n en base a inb=mad6
provenlente de dihlogos qua se celebrarn con representantes de las respectivas euiades quo
reelbieron apoyo mediate el pdamo d austencia tdcnica. La vervi6n oficul de cmte docmonto
ser anceda al Informs Fmal de Rjecu6.n (Implementadon Complelion Rpot 1I=R. La
apreciciones derivadas durmte esta misi6n, nOsm  que se reflejan en esta ayuda ma, utin
sietas a la aprobaci6n de la gerencia del 3anco MundiaL
Las misi6n y represeo;antes del Gobiemo converaron sobre el contenido y estructum del
informs Bul quo esti preparando el Gobiermo. A mediados da enero de 1997 el Gobiemo aviari
al Banco un borrador. E1 pzimer borrador del "ICR" estari preparado para finales del mismo mes.
E1 Gobiemo dosea que estos infmes se discutn con ticuicos de la UTC  y el Comisionado
Presidencial para la Modemzuci6n del Sector Ptblico en la prmera mitad de febrero 1997.
Li                                           r. Antono Martin       o
Comnisionado Presidecial                  , or de la Midonf
para Ia Moderaiziei6n dl Sector PRbliao     Banco MUdal



I



ANNEX II
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from Spanish)
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR
PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION
TECHNICAL COORDINATING UNIT
Loan Amount: $2.5 million
Payment Terms: 20 years, including 5 years of grace
L     Objectives'
i)    Strengthen the Government's capacity to design and implement policy reforms supported
by the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II).
ii)   Provide the analytical base for preparing further restructuring actions, within the
framework of public sector modernization and continued structural adjustment.
HI.   Achievement of Objectives
The project substantially achieved both of the abovementioned objectives. The TAL
effectively supported the fulfillment of related SAL II policy and institutional reform objectives
and provided President Cristiani's administration with the foundations for: (a) policy
decisionmaking; and (b) defining the direction of policy reforms in key areas of the adjustment
program.
Implementation of SAL II and TAL went beyond consolidating the Crisitiani
administration's economic and social adjustment program, as it also served to lay the foundations
for the transition to the new government of President Calder6n Sol. The incoming administration
was thus armed with a series of analyses and studies that would form the basis upon which it
would structure a substantive public sector modernization agenda, which gave rise to the Public
Sector Modernization Program (PSMP) currently being implemented with funding derived
primarily from the World Bank and IDB.
The new administration's Government Plan earmarked public sector modernization as a
key strategic area of reform. A Presidential Commissioner for the Modernization of the State
with rank of Minister, was appointed giving the initiative representative status at the public
administration level.
The TAL-financed Public Sector Molernization Action Plan (PSMAP) was based on a
series of studies encompassing: (i) evaluations of key ministries; (ii) the analysis of public
services targeted for privatization; (iii) the identification of potential reforms in the financial
management of pilot ministries; (iv) proposals for the implementation of an Automated System of
Customs Data Development and Administration geared to the modernization of tax and customs
' Memorandum of the President, p. 2, para. 5.



32
administration; (v) the preparation of a Civil Service Reform Plan; and (vi) the implementation of
a Human Resource Information System (HRIS).    -
The  TAL   furthermore supported in the social sectors, the development of a
Governmental Poverty Alleviation Strategy and Action Plan, which was subsequently
incorporated into the Economic and Social Development Plan 1994-1999. This was facilitated
by financing the implementation of a centralized Social Information System (SIS) data base and by
USAID funds that supported institutional reviews of social ministries.
The project also supported the development of an environmental strategy and action plan,
that was subsequently approved by the Consejo Nacional del Medio Ambiente (CONAMA). The
draft National Environmental Law (NEL), also developed with TAL funds, has yet to be
approved. The reasons underlying the delay in passage are primarily political. Nonetheless, given
the recent creation of the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources, the prospects for
passage seem promising.
In general, the technical assistance received made an important contribution in support of
the Government's ongoing efforts to modernize the public sector and to institute far reaching
policies geared to alleviating poverty and protecting the environment.
Mll.  Programmed Outputs
1.    Public Sector Modernization Component. ($ 0.621 million)
*  Study on Privatization/Deregulation
*  Study on Civil Service Reform
* Evaluations/Diagnostics of Pilot Ministries (Agriculture, Finance and Public Works)
*  Public Sector Modernization Action Plan -PSMAP (In conjunction with UNDP)
2.    Public Expenditure Management Component. ($ 0.025 million)
*  Programmatic Classification and Structure of Multi-Anual Budgets (1994-1996) of the
Ministry of Health and Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development in the Ministry
of Public Works.
3.    Human Resource Information System Component. ($ 0.547 million)
* Design and implementation of a central Human Resource Information System (HRIS) in
MIFIN
*  Design and implementation on a pilot basis, of 2 local HRIS in the Ministries of Finance
and Agriculture
4.    Tax Reform Component. ($0.848 million)
*  Implementation of the Automated System of Customs Data Development and
Administration (ASYCUDA) in 11 customs locations.



33
5.    Environmental Reform Component. ($ 0.133 million)
*  Basic Environmental Law Project (in conjunction with the IDB).
*  National Environmental Strategy and Action Plan (in conjunction with the USAID)
6.    Poverty Alleviation Component. ($ 0.269 million)
*  Development and implementation of a Social Information System
7.    Project Implementation ($0.055 million)
*  Strengthening of the Social Sectors Rehabilitation Project Coordinating Unit to support
management of the TAL.
m. Achievement of Objectives
1.    Public Sector Modernization
* Study on Privatization/Deregulation.
The study primarily encompassed an evaluation of those public services which could be
provided by the private sector. Its contents provided an important foundation for the formulation
of policies and an action plan geared to the privatization of the infrastructure sector (i.e., energy,
telecommunications, roads ports and airports). At present, progress towards the privatization of
the telephone company and four electrical distribution companies is substantially advanced.
Additionally, a Pension System Superintendency has been instituted and is operating while reform
of the pension system is also underway. The approval of modern commercial laws and regulations
paved the way for the deregulation of the electricity and telecommunications sectors. The
importance of these reforms is noteworthy as illustrated by the following: (a) a transparent
regulatory framework with minimal discretionary power has been instituted; and (b) passage of
these laws, has opened these markets to free competition.
The result is considered satisfactory.
* Study on Civil Service Reform
This study produced a comprehensive evaluation of the civil service's institutional
structure and operations and human resource rnanagement and provided a proposed Civil Service
Reform Plan. These proposals were subsequently incorporated into the PSMAP's Human
Resource Management Component and also form the basis for the elaboration of the draft Civil
Service Law, which will seek to establish a newv legal framework for human resource management
in the Executive Branch.
Efforts aimed at modernizing human resource management focus on strengthening the
Institutional Human Resource Units in: (a) the preparation of managerial training plans; and (b)the
design of recruitment, selection, contracting, remunerations, performance evaluations and
personnel development policies.
The result is considered satisfactory.



34
* Evaluations/Diagnostics of Pilot Ministries (Agriculture, Finance and Public Works)
The studies undertaken in the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Public Works,
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development varied in quality as different methodologies
were employed in the respective evaluations. Despite their limited scope, the studies carried out in
the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance produced a number of useful findings. Additionally the
evaluation focusing on the Vice-Ministry of Public Works laid the foundation for the ambitious
reforms currently underway in the MOP. Said reform program involves a redefinition of VMOP's
traditional role as executor. Under the new structure, VMOP's responsibilities would encompass
highway planning and the contracting and supervision of private construction firms involved in
roadway construction, reconstruction and maintenance.
The result was partially satisfactory.
* Public Sector Modernization Action Plan - PSMAP (In conjunction with UNDP).
As previously indicated, the PSMAP embodies the strategic program underlying the
Calder6n Sol administration's public sector modernization agenda. The Program currently being
implemented encompasses an agenda of programmed activities spanning four years. The PSMAP
comprises the following components (refer to Progress Report):
-     Institutional Restructuring
-     Human Resource Management Modernization
-     Deregulation and Private Participation in Public Services
-     Integrated Financial Management System, including the modernization of tax and
customs administration
-     Debureaucratization
-     Decentralization
The result is considered satisfactory.
2)    Public Expenditure Management.
*  Programmatic Classification and Structure of Multi-Anual Budgets (1994-1996) of the
Ministry of Health and Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development in the Ministry
of Public Works.
These studies provided both the methodology and information necessary to formulate
multi-anual budgets, basic tools for medium-term planning. Currently, all of the Integrated
Financial Management System's (SAFI) subsystems require medium-term programming. The
progress achieved to date is illustrated by the following: (a) SAFI is presently in the
implementation stage; (b) a Financial Management Framework Law was approved in 1995; and
(c) programs geared to training personnel in the Institutional Financial Units (HU) --
decentralized SAFI application systems, are underway. The group of ministries where the system
was first implemented was comprised of the ministries of Public Health, Public Works, Transport,
and Housing and Urban Development.
The result is considered satisfactory.



35
3)    Human Resource Information System.
*  Design and implementation of a central Human Resource Information System (HRIS) in
MIFIN
The system which was designed and inmplemented in MIFIN, provides the Central Public
Sector Human Resource Policy Unit data on all public sector posts, personnel and salaries, thus
equipping this unit with an analytical base for policy formulation in these areas.
The system is currently constrained by the following: (a) its design lacks a "unique
identifier" of civil service employees, limiting its ability to control incompatibilities; and (b)
presently, there is no legal base compelling institutions to disclose information on a timely basis to
continuously update the system's database. ]Despite these limitations, the HRIS has proven a
highly useful tool for defining personnel policies.
The result is considered satisfactory.
* Design and implementation on a pilot basis, of 2 local HRIS in the Ministries of Finance
and Agriculture.
Institutional Human Resource Systems (HRIS-I), were successfully developed and
implemented in both Ministries. These systems have laid the groundwork for the development of
an HRIS-I implementation plan encompassing all institutions under the Executive branch which is
currently being instrumented. The HRIS-I's will provide the basic tools to implement a
modernized system of human resource management in the public sector. Presently, those
institutions where HRIS-I's have been installed now benefit from automated budget, salary and
payroll data.
The result is considered satisfactory.
In addition to developing and implementing the central and local pilot HRIS's, Data
Collection Modules (MRIs) have been implemented in all the Ministries and decentralized
institutions of the executing agency, thus permitting the establishment of a useful civil service
inventory, a vital starting point for public sector restructuring.
4)   Tax Reform.
TAL resources were used to impleiment the Automated System of Customs Data
Development and Administration (ASYCUDA).
The project financed consulting services, equipment and training for the implementation of
this system in 10 out of the 11 customs location.
The System furnishes the Customs Administration Office with a useful instrument to
expedite customs processing and clearances and to reduce the discretionary power of customs
officials.
ASYCUDA additionally provides the Central Reserve and MIFIN with automatic transfers
of statistical information to update and maintaiin the national accounting system.



36
The result is considered satisfactory.
5)    Environmental Reform.
*  Basic Environmental Law Project (in conjunction with the IDB).
The Basic Environmental Law was drafted and presented before the Legislative Assembly
where it has been discussed with a number of sectors including political parties, unions, and
NGOs. The draft Environmental Law has spurred national consensus on the importance of
environmental protection, thus motivating the Executive Branch to elevate the importance of the
environmental authority by awarding it Ministry ranking and representation. The draft Law is
currently being revised by newly-elected authorities and will be submitted before the Legislative
Assembly in the upcoming months.
The result is considered satisfactory.
* National Environmental Strategy and Action Plan (in conjunction with the USAID)
A National Environmental Strategy and Action Plan were developed and subsequently
approved by the National Environmental Commission (CONAMA), and have served as the
foundation to launch environmental and natural resource policies. Nevertheless, the lack of an
adequate legal framework for environmental protection and management impedes its
implementation as envisioned during project design.
The result is considered satisfactory.
6.    Poverty Alleviation.
*  Development and implementation of a Social Information System.
The TAL financed programs and equipment to implement a Social Information System
(SIS) in the Ministry of External Relations.
This system serves a mechanism which allows the Government to: (a) process population
data; (b) monitor trends in living standards; and (c) prepare poverty statistics, all of which serves
as a foundation upon which to define poverty alleviation strategies and to evaluate the impact of
the respective social sector plans, programs and projects.
7)    Project Implementation
*  Strengthening of the Social Sectors Rehabilitation Project Coordinating Unit to support
management of the TAL.
The PCU was strengthened by contracting two consultants to manage the project,
specifically in the areas financial management and procurement of goods and services. Once the
these consultants were taken on board, the following was achieved:



37
a)    The PCU demonstrated a 100% capacity in local and international procurement of goods
and services, in compliance with World Bank guidelines.
b)    UNDP participation as procurement agent would be limited to few transactions.
c)    Payments made through UNDP would represent only 17% of total disbursements.
d)    With respect to the project's financial management, the PCU successfully conducted
all budget, accounting, cash flow, liquidation and project close activities.
e)    Two audits of the project were carried out; the first, demonstrated a minimal number of
observations, while the second report was given a clean rating.
The experience obtained by the PCIJ through the implementation of the TAL and the
Social Sector Rehabilitation Project, would enable its incorporation into the Technical
Coordinating Unit, which is responsible for the implementation of both (a) the Public Sector
Modernization; and (b) the Competitive Enhancement Projects. The PCU has improved its
ability to coordinate these projects as it presently administers different financial sources, applying
the specific norms of each financial organism.
The result is considered satisfactory.
ANNEXES:
= Financial Statement by Component - to December 31, 1996
* Statement of Reimbursements to UNDP
* TAL Funded Procurement of Goods aund Services
0 Public Sector Modernization Program - 1995-1996 Activities Report
M:\MINOSOUCRFIN.DOC






GOBIERNO DE EL SALVADOR
COMISION PRESIDENCIAL PARA LA MODERNIZACION DEL SECTOR PUBLICO
UNIDAD TECNICA COORDINADORA
INFORME FINAI DE EJECUCION DEL
PRESTAMO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA 3648-ES
Monto del prestamo: $ 2.5 millones
Plazo de pago: 20 anios, incluyendo 5 anios de gracia
L Objetivos1
i) Fortalecer la capacidad del Gobierno para disefiar e implementar reformas de politicas
apoyadas por el Prestamo de Ajuste Estructural (SAL II)
ii) Proveer de una base analitica para preparar acciones futuras de reestructuraci6n, dentro del
marco de la modernizaci6n del sector publico y la continuidad del ajuste estructural.
HI. Evaluaci6n de logro de objetivos
El proyecto logr6 el cumplimiento de anabos objetivos de manera sustancial, ya que se
cumplieron todas las medidas de politica y acciones comprendidas en el Segundo Prestamo de
Ajuste Estructural, para lo cual el Prestamo de Asistencia Tecnica (TAL) proporcion6 los
elementos de base para la toma de decisiones y la definici6n de orientaciones de politica en
areas claves del programa de Gobierno de la administraci6n del Presidente Cristiani.
La ejecuci6n del SAL II y la asistencia tecnica del TAL, no solamente contribuyeron a
consolidar el prograina de ajuste econ6mico y social de la administraci6n Cristiani, sino
permitieron sentar las bases para la transici6n al gobierno del presidente Calder6n Sol. La
nueva administraci6n encontr6 los analisis y estudios de base que permitieron estructurar una
agenda sustantiva en lo que a modernizaci6n del sector piiblico se refiere, dando origen al
Programa de Modernizaci6n del Sector Publico (PMSP) actualmente en ejecuci6n, con
financiamiento, principalmente, del Banco Mundial y el BID.
El  Plan de Gobierno de la nueva admninistraci6n declar6 como area estrategica la
modemizaci6n del sector piiblico, dandole ademas un status representativo a nivel de la
administraci6n puiblica con el nombramiento de un Comisionado Presidencial para la
Modemizacion del Sector Publico con rango de Ministro.
' Memorandum y Recomendaciones del Pr6stamo pxra el Presidente del Banco, pdrrafo 5, pagina 2.
1



El Programa de Modemizaci6n elaborado con el TAL, fue sustentado con los diagn6sticos
hechos en ministerios, el analisis de propuestas de servicios sujetos a ser privatizados, la
identificaci6n de reformas en el manejo presupuestario de los ministerios piloto y las
propuestas de implementaci6n del sistema automatizado de desarrollo y administraci6n
aduanera, de modemizaci6n de la administracion tributaria, de Plan de Reformna al Servicio
Civil y de implementacion del Sistema de Informaci6n de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos -
SIRH.
Adicionalmente al apoyo en materia de modernizaci6n, en el area social, el proyecto facilit6 el
disefto de una Estrategia Gubemnamental de Combate a la Pobreza, que se incorpor6 al Plan de
Gobierno 1994/1999. Esto fue posible con el establecimiento de las bases de datos del Sistema
de Informaci6n Social, SIS, financiado por el TAL y con los diagn6sticos institucionales de
Ministerios sociales financiados por USAID.
Asi mismo bajo el proyecto se disent6 una estrategia y plan de acci6n ambiental que fueron
aprobados por el Consejo Nacional del Medio Ambiente, CONAMA. El Proyecto de Ley
Basica Ambiental que tambien fue desarrollado por el Proyecto, auin no ha sido convertido en
Ley de la RepuTblica, las razones para el lento avance en esta area han sido basicamente de
indole politica; sin embargo, con la reciente creaci6n del Ministerio del Medio Ambiente y
Recursos Naturales se espera consolidar estos esfuerzos.
De lo anteriormente expuesto podemos afirmar que en general la asistencia tecnica recibida
fue una contribuci6n importante al gran esfuerzo que significa para el actual Gobierno Ulevar a
cabo el proceso de modernizaci6n y el establecimiento de politicas de trascendencia como las
de alivio a la pobreza y de protecci6n ambiental.
IIm Resultados programados
1) Componente Modernizaci6n del Sector Publico. ($ 0.621 milones)
* Estudio sobre Privatizaci6n/Desregulaci6n
3 Estudio para Reforma al Servicio Civil
*  Diagn6sticos en Ministerios Piloto (Agricultura, Hacienda y Obras Nblicas)
* Plan de Acci6n para la Modernizaci6n del Sector Nblico -PAMSP (Conjuntamente con
PNUD)
2) Componente Administraci6n del Gasto Publico. ($ 0.025 millones)
*  Clasificaci6n Programatica y Estructura de Presupuesto Multianual (1994-1996) del
Ministerio de Salud y del Vice-Ministerio de Vivienda en el Ministerio de Obras Publica.
3) Componente Sistema de Informacion de Recursos Humanos. ($ 0.547 millones)
* Disefto e implementaci6n de Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos a nivel central
en el Ministerio de Hacienda.
2



* Diseflo e implementaci6n de Sistema cle Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos a nivel
institucional para el Ministerio de Hacienda y el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia,
como sistemas piloto locales.
4) Componente Reforma Fiscal ($ 0.848 millones)
* Implementacion del Sistema Automatizado de Desarrollo y Administraci6n Aduanera
(SIDUNEA) en 11 Oficinas Locales de Aduana.
5) Componente Reforma de Politica Ambiental. ($ 0.133 niilones)
*  Proyecto de Ley Basica del Medio Ambienrte (conjuntamente con BID)
*  Estrategia Nacional Ambiental y Plan de Accion (conjuntamente con USAID)
6) Componente Alivio a la Pobreza. ($ 0.269, millones)
* Desarrollo e implementaci6n de un Sisterna de Informaci6n Social.
7) Componente Implementacion del Proyecto. ($ 0.055 millones)
*  Fortalecimiento de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Sector
Sociales para asistir la administraci6n del TAL.
IV. Evaluaci6n de logro de resultados
1) Componente Modernizaci6n del Sector Pilbhlico.
3  Estudio sobre Privatizacion/Desregulaci6n.
El estudio abarc6 fundamentalmente la evaluaci6n de los servicios publcos que pueden ser
prestados por agentes del sector privado. Sui contenido constituy6 una base importante para
definir una politica y plan de accion de privatizacion en los sectores de infraestructura (energia,
telecomunicaciones, carreteras, puertos, aeropuertos). A la fecha se cuenta ya con un proceso
avanzado de privatizaci6n de la compailia telef6nica y de cuatro compafiias de distribuci6n de
energia electrica, la puesta en marcha de la reforma del sistema de pensiones y con el
funcionamiento de la Superintendencia del Sistema de Pensiones. Uno de los pasos mas
importantes que se ha dado es la desregulaci6n de los sectores de electricidad y
telecomunicaciones con la aprobaci6n de leyes modemas que por primera vez en el pais abren
estos mercados a la competencia y establecen un marco regulatorio transparente y con la
minima discrecionalidad .
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
* Estudio para Reforma al Servicio Civil
3



El trabajo efectuado gener6 un diagn6stico integral de la organizaci6n y funcionamiento del
servicio civil y de la administraci6n del personal del sector publico y concluy6 con la propuesta
de un Plan de Reformas al Servicio Civil, cuyas propuestas fueron incorporadas al PMSP, en el
Componente Modemizaci6n del Sistema de Administraci6n de Recursos Humanos.
A partir de las propuestas contenidas en el Plan de Reforma al Servicio Civil, se ha elaborado
el Anteproyecto de Ley de Funcion Nblica, mediante el cual se establecerA un nuevo marco
legal para la administracion del personal del Organo Ejecutivo.
En la actualidad, adicionalmente a las reformas legales, la modemizaci6n del sistema de
administraci6n de recursos humanos, esta concentrada en el fortalecimiento de las Unidades
Institucionales de Recursos Humanos, en la preparaci6n de planes de capacitaci6n gerencial y
en el disefno de las politicas de reclutamiento, selecci6n, contrataci6n, remuneraciones,
evaluaci6n del desempefno y desarrollo de personal.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
* Diagn6sticos en Ministerios Piloto (Agricultura y Ganaderia, Hacienda y Obras Publicas)
Utilizando metodologias diferentes, los estudios realizados en los Ministerios de Agricultura y
Ganaderia, Hacienda y Obras Publicas, Transporte, Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano, presentaron
distintos niveles de calidad. Los estudios de los primeros dos Ministerios lograron algunos
resultados positivos, siendo necesario profundizar mas en los diagn6sticos de ambos
Mnisterios. En el caso del Ministerio de Obras Publicas (MOP), su alcance estuvo limitado al
Vice-Ministerio de Obras Ptblicas. Este ultimo estudio ha sentado las bases para una reforma
profimda en el area de Obras Publicas que conUleva a concentrar el papel del VMOP en la
planificaci6n vial y en la contrataci6n y supervisi6n de empresas privadas para la construcci6n,
reconstrucci6n y mantenimiento de la red vial, en lugar de ejecutor.
El resultado fue parcialmente satisfactorio.
* Plan de Acci6n para la Modemizaci6n del Sector Publico -PAMSP (Conjuntamente con
PNUD)
El PAMSP 6 PMSP como fue oficialmente definido este resultado, como se ha dicho antes, es
un programa de caracter estrategico en la agenda del Presidente Calder6n Sol. El Programa se
encuentra en ejecucion, con una agenda de acciones a ser desarrollada en cuatro afios,
integrada por los siguientes componentes (Anexo Informe de Avance):
- Reestructuraci6n Institucional
- Modemizacion del Sistema de Administraci6n de Recursos Humanos
- Desregulaci6n y Participaci6n Privada en servicios publicos
4



- Sistema de Administraci6n Financiera Integrada, incluyendo modernizaci6n de la
administraci6n tributaria y aduanera
- Desburocratizaci6n
- Descentralizaci6n
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
2) Componente Administraci6n del Gasto Pubhlco.
a Clasificaci6n Programatica y Estructura de Presupuesto Multianual (1994-1996) del
Ministerio de Salud y del Vice-Ministerio de Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano en el Ministerio
de Obras Puiblicas.
Los trabajos realizados dejaron la metodologia e informaci6n necesaria para estructurar
presupuestos multianuales, los cuales constituyen una herramienta basica para la planificaci6n
de mediano plazo. El actual sistema de admninistracion financiera integrada, SAFI, requiere de
la programacion de mediano plazo en todos suis subsistemas. Actualmente el SAFI se encuentra
en su fase de implementaci6n, se cuenta con la Ley Organica de la Administracion Financiera
aprobada en 1995 y con su reglamento y se avanza en la capacitaci6n del personal de las
Unidades Financieras Institucionales UFI's, organismos descentralizados de aplicacion del
SAFI. Los ministerios de Salud Publica y de Obras Nblicas, Transporte y Vivienda y
Desarrollo Urbano, formaron parte del primer grupo de ministerios donde se implement6 el
sistema.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
3) Componente Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos.
* Disenlo e implementacion de Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos a nivel central
en el Ministerio de Hacienda.
El Sistema disenlado e implementado en el Mnisterio de Hacienda, provee la base de
informacion analitica de los puestos, personas y salarios del sector publico, con la cual la
Unidad Central de Politicas de Recursos Hunianos del Sector Nblico, estaria en capacidad de
generar dichas politicas.
A pesar de la debilidad del Sistema de no coritar con un c6digo finico para la identificaci6n de
los servidores puiblicos, lo cual facilitaria el control de incompatibilidades, y de la falta de una
base legal que obligue a las instituciones a reportar informaci6n confiable y oportuna para
alimentar y mantener las bases de datos del Sistema, este constituye una herramienta de mucha
utilidad para la definici6n de politicas de personal.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
5



* Disefio e implementaci6n de Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos a nivel
institucional para el Ministerio de Hacienda y el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia,
como sistemas piloto locales.
Los Sistemas Institucionales de Recursos Humanos (SIRH-I) fueron desarrollados e instalados
en ambos Ministerios con 6xito. Esto ha dado la base para desarrollar un plan de
implementaci6n de SIRH-I en todas las instituciones del Organo Ejecutivo, el cual esta en
ejecuci6n. Los SIRH-I's constituirin la herramienta basica para una gestion moderna de
recursos humanos en el sector publico. En la actualidad el desarrollo inforniatico de los
SIRH-I's permite a las instituciones donde han sido instalados la elaboraci6n automAtica del
presupuesto de salarios y de las planillas de pago.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
Adicionalmente al disefno e implementaci6n del Sistema Central y de los Sistemas piloto, bajo
el componente, se logr6 instalar en todos los Ministerios e instituciones descentralizadas del
Organo Ejecutivo un M6dulo de Recolecci6n de Datos de Puestos y Personal, que permiti6 el
establecimiento de un inventario muy iitil para un punto de partida en el redimensionamiento
del personal del sector puiblico.
4) Componente Reforma Fiscal.
Los recursos del TAL se concentraron en la implantaci6n del Sistema Automatizado de
Informaci6n Aduanera (SIDUNEA)
Bajo el Proyecto se financi6 Consultoria, equipo y adiestramiento para la implantaci6n del
Sistemna en 10 de las 11 delegaciones de Aduanas.
El Sistema ha proveido a la Administraci6n Aduanera un instrumento para agilizar el
desaduanaje de mercancias y para disminuir la discrecionalidad de los funcionarios aduaneros.
Ademas el Sistema provee informaci6n estadisticas que se transfiere automaticamente al Banco
Central de Reserva y al Ministerio de Hacienda, para alimentar el sistema de cuentas
nacionales.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
5) Componente Reforma de Politica Ambiental.
* Proyecto de Ley Basica del Medio Ambiente (conjuntamente con BID)
El Proyecto de Ley del Medio Ambiente fue elaborado y presentado a la Asamblea Legislativa,
desde donde ha sido discutido con diferentes sectores incluyendo partidos politicos, gremiales
y ONG's. Alrededor del Proyecto de Ley se ha creado un consenso nacional de la importancia
de la protecci6n ambiental, esto ha motivado al ejecutivo a elevar el rango de la autoridad
6



ambiental a nivel de Ministerio. El Proyecto de ley esta siendo revisado por las nuevas
autoridades y sera nuevamente somnetida a la Asamblea Legislativa para su aprobacion en los
pr6ximos meses.
El resultado fiue satisfactorio.
*  Estrategia Nacional Ambiental y Plan de Acci6n (conjuntamente con USAID)
La estrategia y el plan de acci6n ambiental fueron elaborados y aprobados por la Comisi6n
Nacional del Medio Ambiente, CONAMA y han servido de base para impulsar el
establecimiento de politicas ambientales y de recursos naturales renovables. Sin embargo; la
falta de un marco legal adecuado para la protecci6n y gesti6n ambiental, ha obstaculizado su
ejecuci6n en la perspectiva prevista.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
6) Componente Alivio a la Pobreza.
*  Desarrollo e implementaci6n de un Sistema de Informacion Social.
El TAL provey6 programas y equipamiento para el desarrollo e implantaci6n del Sistema de
Informaci6n Social (SIS) en la Direccion de Informaci6n del Ministerio Planificaci6n y
Coordinaci6n del Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social hoy del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores.
El Sistema es una herramienta que permite al Gobierno procesar informaci6n sobre poblaci6n,
monitorear las tendencias del nivel de vida y preparar estadisticas sobre pobreza, que sirven de
base para la definici6n de estrategias de coinbate a la pobreza y para evaluar el impacto de
planes, programas y proyectos en el sector social.
7) Componente Implementaci6n del Proyecto. ($ 0.1 millones)
* Apoyo a la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de Sector Sociales (UCP)
para apoyar la administraci6n del TAL.
La UCP fue fortalecida con la contratacion de dos consultores que realizaron la administraci6n
del proyecto, especificamente en lo relacionado a la administraci6n financiera y en la
adquisici6n de bienes y servicios. Los logros obtenidos a partir de la incorporaci6n del nuevo
personal fueron:
a) Capacidad de la UCP para efectuar el 100% de las adquisiciones de bienes y servicios
locales e internacionales, utilizando los procedlimientos establecidos por el Banco.
b) Se limit6 la participaci6n del PNUD, quien era el agente de compras, a la realizaci6n de
ciertos pagos.
c) Los pagos efectuados a traves del PNMUD representaron un 17% del monto total
desembolsado.
7



f) En el area financiera se realizaron las diferentes actividades relacionadas con presupuesto,
contabilidad, ingresos, egresos, liquidacion y cierre del proyecto.
g) Se efectuaron dos auditoria al proyecto; obteniendo en la primera un minimo de
observaciones y en la segunda el informe correspondiente fue limpio.
La experiencia obtenida por la UCP en este proyecto y en el de Rehabilitaci6n de los Sectores
Sociales, le perniti6 que fuera incorporada en la Unidad Tecnica Coordinadora, que tiene a su
cargo la ejecuci6n del Proyecto de Modemizacion del Sector Publico y el Proyecto de
Mejoramiento de la Competitividad. En los mencionados proyectos, ha mejorado los controles
establecidos anteriormente ya que administra diferentes fuentes de financiamiento, en las que
aplica las normas especificas de cada organismo financiador.
El resultado fue satisfactorio.
ANEXOS:
* Estado de Avance Financiero - Por Componente- al 31 de diciembre de 1996
* Estado de Reembolsos Efectuados al PNUD por el Proyecto.
* Adquisiciones de Bienes y Servicios Realizadas a traves del TAL
* Informe de Actividades 1995-1996 Programa de Modemizaci6n del Sector Publico
8



TAL PRESTAMO 3648 ES                         ANEXO 1
ESTADO DE AVANCE FINANCIERO - POR COMPONENTE -
AL 31 DE DICIIEMBRE DE 1996
4.REFORMA FISCAL (SIOUNEA)
a. Servicios de Consultoria                   250,000.00    212,039.46     37,960.54
a.1 Consultoria Intemacional                              202,589.88   (202,589.88)
a.2 Consultores Nacionales                                  9,449.58     (9,449.58)
b. Equipo                                                   583,029.27   (583,029.27)
b.1 Equipo UB                                 400,000.00    543,779.23   (143,779.23)
b.2 Equipo C. P.                                             39,250.04    (39,250.04)
C. Mantenimiento, transporte,etc               95,000.00      2,627.13    92,372.87
c. 1 Capacitaci6n                                            2,627.13     (2,627.13)
d. Contingencias(Acond. de Oficinas)           74,500.00     11,444.73    63,055.27
e. PNUD 3.5%  ( i)                             28,682.50      1,269.48    27,413.02
5. REFORMAS A LA POUTICA AMBIENTAL
a. Servicios de Consultoria                   107,143.00    115,000.60     (7,857.60)
a .1 Consultor Economista Estratega           39,429.00     26,973.00     12,456.00
a.2 Abogado Ambientalista                     31,714.00     21,615.60     10,098.40
a.3 Coordinador ()                            36,000.00     66,412.00    (30,412.00)
b. Contingencias                               21,428.60                  21,428.60
c. PNUD 3.5%  (-)                               4,500.01      4,025.02       474.99
OPPN               256.  "'14,"4S299
6. AUVIO A LA POBREZA (SIS)
a. Servicios de Consultoria                    60,000.00          .       60,000.00
b. Equipo                                     176,364.00    193,234.41    (16,870.41)
b.1 Equipo de Computaci6n CP                                27,901.63    (27,901.63)
b.2 Equipo de Computaci6n UB                               165,332.78   (165,332.78)
c. Contingencias (renta de equipo)             23,636.40        172.22    23,464.18
d. PNUD 3.5%  ()                                9,100.01       404.92      8,695.09
_OTAL -                                         9tID=  1   5     5      52888B
7. IMPLEMENTACION DEL TAL
a. Servicios de Consultoria                    36,000.00     34,856.24     1,143.76
b. Equipo C.P.                                 13,000.00     13,785.60      (785.60)
c. Auditorias (2)                                            14,331.19    (14,331.19)
d. Contingencias                                4,900.00          -        4,900.00
d. PNUD 3.5%  ()                                1,887.00      1,702.48       184.52
TOTAL -mT                                   2 ,500a0000  52,01    (8,889651)
TOTALESI 2,500,000.00 I 2,406,003.23    93,996.77
_    .  ._   l, .   ,   |   , . .        _ ,,.  . .  ,~~~~~~~~~~~I



Estado de Rcembolsos Eictuados al PNUD por of Proyecto
Asistencis T6cnlca -TAL-, prstamo BIRF 3648- ES.
1994    Imp_emui6n del proyecto                               5,270.51                       ELS-92-0
2         1994    Reforma a la poltca Ambblea                           27,648.00                       ELS-91-005
Comisi6n del 3.5 % inciuida dmnbt del
nmonto de la SRF                                      1,152.15              34,070.66
3         1994    Implementaci6n del proyecto                           1Z827.24                        ELS-92006
3         1994    Reforma a la poicaAmbienWal                           2493.00                        ELS-914-0
Comisi6n del 3.5 % incluida dentro del
nmonto de ia SRF                                       536.20               15,856.44
8         1994    Implementad6n del proyecto                             5,717.58                       ELS-92-006
8         1994    Reforma a la polilica Amblental                       57,538.40                       ELS-91-ODS
Comisi6n del 3.5 % inclulda dentro del
_monto de la SRF                                      2_213.94              65_469.92
12         1994    Implemenltacn del proyecto                            4_516.5C                       ELS _92006
12         1994    Reforma a la poitfica AmbienW                        16t265.60                       ELSa9140
12         1994    Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos           16,148.22                       ELS-92-5
Comisi6n del 3.5 % induida dentro del
montD de la SRF                                       1.29257               38_222.89
13         1994    Implementacidn del piyecto                            1       _905.86                ELS_92__6
13         1994    Sistema de Inlbmacl6n de Recursos Humanos             1,644.66                       ELS-92-50
13         1994    Maneio de Gastos POblicos                             841102_ 841MELS924
Comisi6n del 3.5 % indu;da dentro del
monto de la SRF                                                                        _     _418.65  12_380.19
16         1994    Implementacd6n del prayecto            3_811.72_                                     ELS-924006
16         1994    Sistema de Informaa6n de Recursos Humanos            2Z969.65                        ELS-92-508
16         1994    Alivio a la Pobreza                                  11_397.23                      EQS-9240
Comision del 3.5 % incluida dentro del
16         1994    monto de la SRF                                       1336_23               39_514.83
30         1995    Implementacl6n del prmyecto           7_129.76                                       ELS-924C6
30         1995    Sistema de lnfofifac6n de Recursos Humnanos          51,530.91                       ELS-92-508
30         1995    Refomna Fwscal                                        322.7.01                      EQS-94005
30         1995    Manejo de Gastos Publicos             8_881.75                                      EQS-924C
30         1995    Alio a la Pobreza                                       17222                        ES924006
30         1995    Reforma ala politi  Ambeta                              495.60                       ELS-91-005
Comisi6n del 3.5 % indulda dentro del 
30         1995    monto de la SRF                                       Z50.25                73,937.48
32         1995   Implementai6n del proyecto         .089.56                                            ELS-924C
32         1995    Sistema de lnfoimacidn de Recusos Humanos            10,539.93                      EQS-92508
32         1995    Reforma a la poltica Ambiental                       10i560.00                       ELS91405
_    2    1995    Reforma Fscal                                         13057.18                       ELS-94405
Comisi6n del 3.5 % incluida dentro del
48         1996    monto de la SRF                                       1263.66              13795.30
49         1996    mlampeEntnaci6n del proyecto          5_373_12_E_S_92_
49         1996    Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos           633724.                         ELS-924508
49         1996    Reloma Fiscal                                         5 14 83.13                     ELS-94-005
49         1996    Modemetaci6n del Sector P5Mico                       18735.1                  .      ELS-92-508
Comision del 3.5 % incluida dento del
I_____   I__ monto de la SRF                        _       _ 3_244.681                 95_950.22
Reembolso al PNUD en concepto de Gastos                                    417116.28
Reembolso al PNUD en concepto de Comis6n
del 3.5%                                                                    14,598.96
|Total Reembosado al PNUD    .-d.            7       7--v,                 433:zf.  AA 1.71524



Aaq.,Iu.94in. wiViNERWHIIA  MLOMAAUATV OlL00PTAW6AWfMNW0TMMMWATU
2  0004   444y3                         0~~~~~~~~~ GW.6Pd1M.                         LA         00       LY4041,0     LOCAL   1WAL             44.01           1,00409            9,1O               00000.O  ____MM____o                                                                                             ?"11
p WIALisoL.                                                          mmCA                    3000.1            0,13                                  200000
2  104                                  A~           ~~~~~~ 40  M                     Ls        PM 44Cw4E                                   21040005          231.5170            10U                 WM,720                I    _ _ _                    314               07.0                   07               07.22.
2_ISM           ____       _______                     ________     d___   A__             LA           ___________         LOCAL                   24030            20,41120.0 _  _  _  _  _              2Z4203.00             I     _   _  _  _       _   _  _  _       _  _   __  _       _   _  _  _   _    _  _  _
;   I                                            5d.04.3400.orM04~~~~x P-WOPfAL  .L                    M.W P.**.       LOCAL                  1U44.18           70o3                                  Ito                    I.0.M                                             LM0041M U7004
I~~~~d.00l.wb     ~               PW.          SqlbM
4  000   .b...0.4                                      ..0d0..o0.                           is                  P0C0~* k.   LOCAL00                  WAS0            2t25,440                             2240.I
III 1140040.44..OAn p-
0       40    04001A~                                x      . U       dd0A          A .            L.         oW.        yr41e        2345201.           20,205.00        0,70.7.0lW0o                            ,07043           00                                  0.0.202032504                                                                 0,0w
~~~4Akk.        ~                 V.fp- d,g0"
O  00  1R.,I4.                                                 0...               i                   050.        0480400L              4720.             405000             4107.0             4007.0                                                4,20A4,2000.47WJy7,j
0004.b44..A6.P-vqf
d0000 .I O0000.h.S M ER OFC
8      0004   744004                                  4          p...*pd.40o.04                    isA         . 001L.               4L740CA0             2.4MM0            312,14.0                                                                           _____4___
700000 ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~      .614    L
3       04     P0~4               ______  __          *       d  .6   no0.p.- d. UOP* fAL           LA        211.0440     .~1     LOC L.                  20012461          72050.0    1___   __  __ _     __  __  __ _      __ _ _ _ _     _ _  _ _  _ _      _  _ _ _  _ _    _ __  _ _  _ _      _ _  _ _ _  _ __                         _  _ _ _
h4.4001d4        ~                 qp.kIm&N."
3    040IN      .                                       Di."AO0440d.0.0n4fAL                   u         MI.A ~           ~    LCLZM6                                   i     o            N U is 00.m0Vd   W    202.2   210.3  "__________   __44__         ______            ______9______                        _______               ______



t ~           ~ ~                            X    i
0                U N_iL                                                                                          Ab_W   M iFh   F  i   6 0     6     2    0210 0 0          1 7630 700        175,101 0          176,5tO.0 9                              0 20             m.            20200,.                                 20,16751            20,1641
6il_^_0S~~~~~~~~Q"w d*_                                    AP.                     T-AP-
10    le_"_                       _300d                                                                          o ..614M L,lak    9 Kr5000041           1D.40200          1766D10                               001.00  17       10                     0.           20.M0.G 20=00                             _             *    2>I              202
lR1 1                                                                    dyn _I_ . _  t400 700160.0006A       X      6iM                                                    76,5 A10   4.00 ,                    1516.8200, 20600 .204 25,33874  0020 _                  _24
02   _  004         ~                                        4P _1_ ..  4          T       q       L  T  b _  C34.0.01         L  O  CAL                  1,203.02           10,40166                             10403.60        110,1".t t             O_                      _ ________        ______A__3_
12     066                                                                     L~0                  .          g4.63                 OA.                   1401.02AW?        72206                                7.6,0            I____________
12     1.       I       J       I       E      R       _      y      l       = 484180               6.4.74 4,166M.740                                                                                                             10
2   1    bs H    _      _    _lb _P S                                  4    ~~~~~~~~                                ~        ~~~~~~~~             ~             ~          ~~~CW.&F  ILa  1 ,2JIY  _U  _    1 41Z65   10.
0       066      &e..                                                                                              13E 4 OI  T  019                        ,2177.            11,,25Y3    10
03     066      h.3..i 0,..                                          0043                          L.         wpw08Mk.              LOCAL                   261002            7.21        ____233020                              II
139i tMu F                                                                                                                                          4&6                                                      ,MAB
13~ ~~ ~  ~ "P    .                                                                                                                            U3              Zs"t$                                               1
00     004 0003                                               346                                             6303   8V4            3036                   ,6066             l9m0 0,8g 0                          16J3             I0.0,2100,3016 __Z3__                                                                         1,010IZ l
00     0_66     0.03                                 3                   47I           E           LdAll    030.,AL.403.01    _      OL00000IWL3L         73200,2C          17,307,6          1      .00         07,078           11              .__.
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I     H     l        ..*... . .31..4 .0  L  43.  M  _  000  11  _  __   -
9X1                    Pm__oG"_TllEdall~~~~~T-4- P
06  t04  _         H.                                3        _                                      .        CMawm.3               WOKWM&               2773                006                      50          12,0.20         17      OT"02                                         AMO00                                    20.
& 1.,                    i            iT                                7_X~~~~~~~~~X881..ym
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   L.Pqwf iF_04M* 
is     'm                                                                                                     C_  ffift.            LOrAL        4          ".73    =         t    o                              i2102P0.0.03_  t70.00 V 0020.0  . 22
06  0364    MA.m.00..  3  4. 64,40.0  LA                      A                              4__
16 SISX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L    l                                              NbA*&                 LOC                   420   2$           V4C10.03                              V.4O0.31       12._



a.
__^__                                                                                                                    i   ~ -_S60bl                                                                             13                            ___                                                                              __
________LA                                                                                     MI.OAplkv.            o                    1.6001           16o".6          346,2313           I12616          3                2M3.6            16,241o          "115483            2&3601             1661416.0          ASUn3
wift.-1P.b  LAWO66  T-d4.p..k
17     -_                                                                             MAPt..  _a SdowhUU   4?W-t _ m         _K_                473361           462.0160          412,zU8           412,08y.t 00  371                               470                47,21001  _                           47*S               47&u
" Ss __ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.WO. r__    jL^W  rdc tw  On_ESLV                                          TlOVAjU1K  a            s    "o           Stt          ttm       t.           $K    M          0                   am          lzo        0    2.IU"IS44M
8     U1        P    _d                                   UW 1_lVtI                                     Y flSd.G            IllERW lt          331tlO8.         l22S,5mi         2,2s58t           2.     U01        21              33815     __At        02 2X61908                     33MUJI                   .         _        _
28  1166    a                        *                                                29S.0L. UA.b  -08*,W   4                tPuc06             11303           n                  aO                 3O            2                23s M                                                                        _ 232574 a o  2755 W
21     "a          _                 *         _                                       Mp__M  V . .      010896MS                               17484 23        6,i24.l*          i2ot. ol         1.34.1I0 27               I         74t                             174,62             1A74.98 _115                          174.86
R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     _______                                  8,616 6_.p| t   w   te  7,3       87,282.88         87.06          23                         ______           _______    _________                                   ______________
_    _  US  x6Iu.                                  S             lCu.                         .A                 Pu.    EI2tW                      14813           8739              87*1*             7*18           24   |e                               o                 t|.|*                                                 t
__   _ __       W_ __      _                                                            __    _   _      _  , _    _   _                          846 6             7*14            |a8 2771 27.40Z  837.701 0       25              |_____|*__JTSIS,3
S5     US    166.bMS                  ...                                                               S.08dla s             6UnD 1            17116*         128.023_ 129336 1s127                              7y28l  ____                                    ____            _____                                  ______
*       | US         | 386                                      d.q..ydh                                1 _____                                  11136.6         121.813          1.01127!E23        121.025*      Mp2               1 21        ____                  11X31              184.82755  3132
27    116       b..98S                             *         p.06.I.                  _       {---&LA f         ram           i7mii               41 16          28788              28.3              28336           38        _____            _____            _______          ______               _____            ___
2  7                                 A        _     1       b      _        -M-              L.    4     w                  LOCAM_L      4       Ilmol       7 5UI 3 521UII         PAS7,O           2U11       3                       U"                  u            "mo            4       ,1 -  4WooU
_  _  _ 1 _    -                  kt                        |        4          WIB~~_______          ____                124167            n,31                              21238*        w21 |2  |___                              | ___   | ____    | ____   |                                            * |
i28             US    bi..8                                         US._          8.42t               IA 48 L___                                          11824.60         37257J                             257,283       32y23       ____             ____                                                    ____             ____
__                                                                                   _   _ _    _      _______S l          sl_ __  _            2,f6l78          23.02751   J    ll5 211 16         31781          }qit76S 7 -2      1\1       ' _    _ _       | _    _   _     _ _   _
2      _______                .___    ______ 4                                                    LL137116                                                 25.212            27.131            27.S116        J4                16t7l1 _____176.10                                  3.1111  _____                        3.117



*   d       -gi. d                 LA        ~         q*  d       LOCAL                    1  4 lM                N_                                            _   _         _   _   _                            _   _   _         _   _   _   _      _   _    _   _      _   _   _   _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                        d  d .~~~~~   U   4            I,.         M .S.~~~~4 4 d. VbL  LOCAL                  1044.7              M N M_                                 o__ _ _   _ _ _  __                                                              _   _  _   _     _ _   _   _   _     _    _   _
"  ~ ~X _i*  4d-.        IU4                 Lt     1      .A                                                  ___         _ _t    _                                                           _     __                                              _ _
4A                                 -     " ..p m I b.             toYm                                                                                                  _  _   _  _  _  __   _  _  _  _       _  _   _  _                                                              _   _  _  _   _
3                   _           _     'dC.a                                IL L.A4 IL                                W                                                                                                                                         ___W___                                                 __       _ _am_ 3_..
w  _  P___I_                                   1____   ______                    7504 Lo        CII*V               LONCAL                 IISLL4t            040.0                                007.10         4U         _
J~~~~ _                       _   _    _   _   _      _  _ _ _    _ _ _   _ _  _                       _ _ _ _   _ _ _      _ _   _   _      _ _ _ _ _                     4                                .710? t 0 0 r _  
___           __ ___           _               _____    __ _ __ _ _                                           __ _ _ _ __ _ ___  ___ _ _ __ _ _                                                                 IUSI            37P                                             ___ __ _           ______"_ _  ___ _ _ s__D   3_ _
II A_ . X _X1_ ;_* - IG V _ 11 I444-*dd..dt                                      t. D   _     .Cpv             O    W           I         1_ 00*        _      O
_      _       1 _   _   _                     _  _     _   _  _  . _    _   _ _    _      _ _ _  _     _        _ _   _    _        _ _ _ _ _Tt lCD_                                                             04  1          .7                                                                                                           _  _ _
r_ _     _        _    _   H_ 7.0                                                                                                   _ _                     i      H7 pAL           N                                                                                            __2      ___ Zl 35_.
_    _o.~d.d.~sd                             7.0F Z_k.0 OWBA tL                                         4 SKI       0   4                                        0          40                 __
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __FOW L _                                                     _  _ __M_          _    _ _ _ _              1  2 M W        04_                                                                                       _   _    _
X                                                                                               P.W L               _               H_ *. OW___FL         11032 . _   _.0_ _  __.._                                 23.0          a
. S 1 __   .   "_,1__   ____k4id d.0gbo4                                           LA         o      t              LOCAL                    7373.73          1ZD00                                 I3ZDw           0
__              _    _ ___                                                   __    _-_          _ _ __          _    _   __     _   _          _   _      _     _ _    _             _   _    _                10   W        0
"  b~~~_1_ _ . ub__*_* N L a _ ~~~~-d.WL                                                                                                   1377J7      1    2 0                                   IZDIOD   #    . 
WA
r _ r=   0  IIH-_                                                i 4W-d             A              LA                               L                       Mu                34AC                  340                            36z 
*.wsdb.b-d                                       mwaD P.
M   111  6               _                           x    _b                                                  M c -        Rk.Od  WLO                       231ZI             2UM.00                               moD             38                                                              
30     "i  r            6                            x             dm.kW                           L.            -    bw            LO*CAz L                13n7 .1. g        lzo                                   iDKDI 32
__   _                   _ t*_-b                                              4is_ixas                                   _                                                     _                 _                                                           _                                  rA
X w Z= K _isFHS_ k 3 _ Wz 24 21 | _ 21D X __ __ R.M



uin~~m,.inMuayMvI nl?im gsyu53I36A.
$2  ~   ______          ____        ___________                 ______    _______    m                        a        ~      gu         ~       m           usuin                 mm         u2~4mos                            4#u,            i~.LAs  ___  *iaiommM 40m
10  to                                                No                        t.~~I  .   42dm                hlmfft                4Am             47663              63.              413261          42                                 74*66666446U4*6
30____LI                                                                                       7m            b.6.  U0AL                    4364.7          56*941        ___ _                                s' 
b*k -                                                                                  ,LOAL17.   _______                                                                                      1.20
$2   -                                  S    VUd6htft6.0                                             6~            616.                 1.*4             4*76                                176   ___ ____
30     -O       ____*                                                                                     -f*,.f            Koao                    Alue__ _3l__ _   _ _ _     __4_ _ _                                           __ 4__0                                                                  -      -Wn I  MIM* 3 
d.~~~~~~~I.Vw*6
-         m..iw                             x                                           .       LCDLuLoR4012                                                                                    1,             42                   Om_____                                                         -      -"&O  7WN4A
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C..    o
-   6..d                             _____________~~~~~..-b                        ______              ____                         _____6.3.6                                                                               ____           __ _ _
666                                                                                                                                      46              .m3             37561              1,6.3         663*i                                              slu                      m              ust__ __ _
V2 w"                                                      _        _       _                                    _ _.k i-M    _        _                                      _                                                                  _                _                  _a
$266  Plq.m  S                      U    ~~~~~                     6.6611.                4*13.3           26.2465           3174266           3740.66        63                   6.            4*1              4*1336                 6.66            4*7126            4273.36~~~~~~43,4,45,6,47,
___0                                                                                      L._ _   _______     660.        W6616               4I 23              3,45              3736               676            6       ____                       *1413                                   0               *164
kqbR3kd                                       _______                                         ____                                    3736             6636             31616             26*.                       ____3.                                   3726                            ___
___________                                       ____________                           77.6             72.17366          77AL  %loo     6666                                                  .66                    .36166666
165  h.I~~66..                                                         _____                                     6*6626                                                                                        ____  ____  ___F__



le _                                                                                                           ___ .__uql -- _s r*~-1. _r 7]_ L  ^  _  _
__..                             --- i!U S - tele eng  1111 _- 1                          wL        w.pL   _ Co-q
_ _ ____                                                     -X #wu-__   _ z- _                                           _
.__I  ____  __     y J-rr-t  --t7ii  ____  i          Wi;   Ci                 _          .   1           =     _L   __ - -    _ _
___   _         __           ___      _ _           -__         V.i_                                                  ___         _                   _ _ _  r       . |_            K
_________                        _  ____ __                               -    l                    M' ._ _                                                 '   Im.    
WiLllI               W*L3         .L                       _    U              IPKlUI    *IX        WNfl. to                                     .        ;  r           _           iI
VI  enSLi                mn
uI Wu"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  
..f ___             mWIZ      wsWl .                                         WIN .                                   of -  .
=           = _  ~~~~~                ~ a  =00                           TMn i4s          _ N"         'OW ~  
W.. - A
_  _ ___ . ---- Un    e    ltUeiarl                                                                                                .                                                     a  .E  e   
__ _I  ___  I                                                         __                           -  __                                      ___ ii                              I
enr.m.                         a           1. jt                                                           
......  on         tram       wom       )n        wamWm"                     en W       n        en                  _        __                           I
mul    -:Q    eWop                     i l                 n     olgs-'~t _.t  ov!| ie;                                         |*   a, 
en  en      en    ~ own         mvv
enw  jIu        e                                   I                                                                                1S_ ;;  I          U                              Iu 
itsat   We     iranxm      asGl               ssi    | n         a~|U                  I--  i                                        8                      -5*;                ' 
-        -                                                                                              I          -,               ___ .I.i.__:.I_: - --I*I_ - I 
I_     _ _ _ _ _ _ _SI _                                 t_ _                         .                                                       t       ||__ _  _ _   |K- 
_ _~           _                       I_
.  Br_l                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~



mKoonWo                                                                                                                     uiona ow w o 
inU                  n lU' Z                                                                                               ano gowo sts                   *OUIl
am's W"t  seoni um'   C,"u                      MNWUOOV                             oow             a                          -- MA
to~ ~       ~ _S"m,
so anont                         ar"ml                                                                                                _ n0
Y wornC       arnt    X X 'X             'AXlw X 0  man   0          0              u       o'.         amg           00'.        000         t      Y0    " Wd            t                       _-d  MO W
mOtl        01 U         0031010        00106         1U          10000        *lAO01 Xao1            ,neoo    X   18165  . 0                     1V"          4W     E    i                'qg..   _                   _1dm
..~~~~~~~~~~~0 _ 000                                                         _OO0   00100   10_Ma                                                                                                        _ OlSI~    O
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..P1 1UWt WCI' AO._  A f|twAA   
x0    0~O                        0000000      000001       10_08J A          'O "1_              ,_88@"*g                 X     -_-               0    00    0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M w    -   .s v   .m EE
w_vmLUUi.,.. inu_ LVNagnn                         Ainit  mu,age









IMAGING
Report No.:         1 6832
Type:      ICR



