Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3648 ES
                          Loan Agreement
                    (Technical Assistance Loan)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated October 21, 1993
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3648 ES
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) by agreement of even date herewith, the Bank has
agreed to make a Loan (the Second Structural Adjustment Loan) to the
Borrower, to assist in the financing of a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy, including, inter alia, the Environmental
Action Plan, the Sector Budget Plan, the Poverty Alleviation Action
Plan, the Public Sector Modernization Action Plan and the Tax and
Customs Administration Program (as defined in Section 1.02 of the
Loan Agreement for such Loan);
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
         "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
    the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement for the Second Structural
Adjustment Loan, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
    (a)  "Action Plan" means any of the Borrower's plans of action
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of each part of the
Project by the respective Executing Ministries (as hereinafter
defined), including the main activities to be carried out under such
part of the Project, their objectives, expected results or outputs,
cost estimates and budgets, counterpart resources, evaluation
criteria and performance indicators, institutional arrangements and
responsibilities, key dates and timetables for implementation, and
their connection with the Second Structural Adjustment Loan, as such
Action Plans may be revised from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank;
      (b)   "ASYCUDA" means the Automated System of Customs Data
Development and Administration, designed by UNCTAD (as hereinafter
defined);
      (c)   "Executing Ministry" means any of the following agencies
of the Borrower, which is identified in an Action Plan as being
responsible for the execution of a part of the Project: MAG, MINED,
MIHAC, MIPLAN (as hereinafter defined), MSPAS, and MOP;
      (d)   "MIPLAN" means Ministerio de Planificacion y
Coordinacion del Desarrollo Economico y Social, the Borrower's
Ministry of Planning and Coordination for Economic and Social
Development;
      (e)   "MOP" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas, the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works;
      (f)   "Social Sector Information System" means a monitoring
system, satisfactory to the Bank, for measuring living standards and
other basic social indicators, in the territory of the Borrower;
      (g)   "UCP" means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a)
(ii) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "UIM" means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (i)
of this Agreement;
      (i)   "UNCTAD" means the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development; and
      (j)   "VMV" means Viceministerio de Vivienda, the Borrower's
Page  3
Vice-ministry of Housing, within MOP.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two million five hundred thousand Dollars
($2,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
Page  4
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Action Plans and
the Implementation Timetable set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
maintenance, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain until
completion of the Project, within MIPLAN:
            (i)   an inter-ministerial unit, with membership
                  structure (including the Project manager and the
                  Project technical director referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and the Project
                  coordinators referred to in paragraph (c) of this
                  Section), functions and responsibilities
                  satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia,
                  the following functions and responsibilities:
                  (A)   managing and overseeing the execution of
                        the Project;
                  (B)   reviewing all consultants' reports,
                        evaluating their findings and implementing
                        their recommendations, as the case may be,
                        as approved by the Bank; and
                  (C)   preparing the reports referred to in
                        Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
           (ii)   a Project coordination unit, with functions and
                  responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
                  including, inter alia, procurement of goods and
                  selection of consultants to be financed out of
                  the proceeds of the Loan, as approved by UIM and
                  the Bank.
Page  5
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that UIM and UCP are at all
times headed by a Project manager and a Project technical director,
respectively, both with qualifications, experience, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified
staff in adequate numbers.
      (c)   The Borrower shall ensure that each Executing Ministry
shall retain, until completion of the Project, Project coordinators
with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank.
      (d)   The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
discharge of the functions of UIM, UCP and the Project coordinators.
      (e)   The Borrower shall maintain in the Executing Ministries
qualified staff in adequate numbers as counterparts of the consul-
tants employed under the Project.
      Section 3.04. With regard to the services of the consultants
to be hired under the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   promptly after the completion of each service, furnish
to the Bank copy of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such findings and recommendations; and
      (c)   review and implement, as the case may be, the Action
Plans in accordance with the recommendations of such consultants,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, by no later than ten working
days after the end of each month, until the completion of the
Project, the Borrower, through UIM, shall furnish to the Bank, for
its review and comments, a summary report on the progress achieved
in the implementation of the Project during the immediately
preceding calendar month, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank may reasonably request.
      Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through UIM
and UCP, shall:
      (a)   by no later than December 31, 1994, review, in
conjunction with the Bank, the progress in the implementation of the
Project, including an assessment of the performance of the
Borrower's obligations under this Agreement, and the findings and
recommendations of the consultants hired under the Project; and
      (b)   if, as a result of the above review, the Bank determines
that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower
shall promptly take all such remedial action, satisfactory to the
Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the
Project or the achievement of its objectives.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the ministries of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  6
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
                  count was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Second Structural Adjustment Loan shall have been fulfilled; and
      (b)   that procurement arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
shall have been adopted by UCP.
      Section 5.02. The date January 20, 1994 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination for
Economic and Social Development of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  7
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordinacion
            del Desarrollo Economico y Social
            Final 17 Av. Norte
            Costado Poniente CEL
            Centro de Gobierno
            San Salvador
            El Salvador, Centro America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MIPLAN                     30120245
                  Centro de Gobierno
                  San Salvador,
                  El Salvador
      With copy to:
            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Avenida Alvarado
            Diagonal Centro Americana
            San Salvador
                                          Telex:
                                             3012064
      For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                   Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
              Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                  By /s/ Mirna Lievano de Marques
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods                     1,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
(2)  Consultants'              1,200,000        100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Unallocated                 300,000
                               ---------
     Total                     2,500,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $625,000 may be made in respect
of Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1
hereof, on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after June 30, 1993.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen the
Borrower's capacity to prepare, implement and supervise policy
reforms under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan, assuring their
long-term sustainability; (b) provide the analytical foundation for
the preparation of further policy reforms; (c) improve efficient
resource allocation and informed decision making; (d) develop a more
effective institutional and legal framework for environmental and
natural resources management, and related public and private
decision making; and (e) upgrade service delivery and policy making
in the social sectors.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:     Public Sector Modernization
      Preparation of the Public Sector Modernization Action Plan,
including the corresponding draft laws and regulations, through:
Page  9
1.    Carrying out of studies on the modernization of the Borrower's
public sector, including proposals on:
      (a)   management and administrative reforms, through
institutional reordering and simplification of procedures and
administrative tasks;
      (b)   administrative decentralization and strengthening of
municipal management;
      (c)   privatization and deregulation;
      (d)   integrated financial management; and
      (e)   modernization of the Borrower's human resources and
civil service management, including proposals on arrangements for
the central management of the civil service.
2.   Pilot review of MAG, MIHAC and MOP, aimed at determining
options for management improvement techniques applicable to other
ministries of the Borrower.
Part B:     Public Expenditure Management
      Preparation of the preliminary Sector Budget Plan for MSPAS
and VMV, as a programmatic budget structure applicable to other
ministries of the Borrower, aimed at improving budget preparation
and accounting, strengthening expenditure prioritization and
upgrading budget execution and auditing.
Part C:     Human Resource Information System
1.    Implementation of the central Human Resource Information
System in MIHAC and, on a pilot basis, of compatible local Human
Resource Information Systems in MAG and MIHAC.
2.    Transfer of existing salary and personnel information from all
the ministries of the Borrower to the central Human Resource
Information System.
Part D:     Tax Reform
      Carrying out of the Tax and Customs Administration Reform
Program, through implementation of ASYCUDA at eight customs
locations, aimed at improving the efficiency and transparency of the
processing of import accounts.
Part E:     Environmental Policy Reform
1.    Preparation of the Environmental Action Plan.
2.    Preparation of the Draft Environmental Law.
Part F:     Poverty Alleviation
1.    Preparation and implementation of the Social Sector
Information System.
2.   Institutional review of MSPAS.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                          SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 1999                               45,000
Page  10
August 15, 1999                                 50,000
February 15, 2000                               50,000
August 15, 2000                                 50,000
February 15, 2001                               55,000
August 15, 2001                                 55,000
February 15, 2002                               60,000
August 15, 2002                                 60,000
February 15, 2003                               65,000
August 15, 2003                                 65,000
February 15, 2004                               65,000
August 15, 2004                                 70,000
February 15, 2005                               70,000
August 15, 2005                                 75,000
February 15, 2006                               80,000
August 15, 2006                                 80,000
February 15, 2007                               85,000
August 15, 2007                                 85,000
February 15, 2008                               90,000
August 15, 2008                                 95,000
February 15, 2009                               95,000
August 15, 2009                                100,000
February 15, 2010                              105,000
August 15, 2010                                110,000
February 15, 2011                              110,000
August 15, 2011                                115,000
February 15, 2012                              120,000
August 15, 2012                                125,000
February 15, 2013                              130,000
August 15, 2013                                140,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
Page  11
     maturity
                         SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines) and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A.1, the Borrower shall use relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents based on
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Part B:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to all contracts procured pursuant to the
provisions of Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
Page  12
2.    For complex, time based-assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultant's services issued by the Bank, with such modifi-
cations as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                     Implementation Timetable
Parts of the Project                            Terminal Dates
Part A
Review and comments of the first
drafts reports with respect to Parts
A.1 (c), A.1 (e) and A.2                        January 31, 1994
Submission of the final reports
with respect to Parts A.1 (c),
A.1 (e) and A.2                                 February 28, 1994
Submission of the first draft Public
Sector Modernization Action Plan                March 18, 1994
Review and comments of the first draft
Public Sector Modernization Action Plan,
and the corresponding laws and
regulations                                     March 31, 1994
Submission of the final Public
Sector Modernization Action Plan
and the corresponding laws and
regulations                                     June 30, 1994
Part B                                          January 15, 1994
Part C                                          June 30, 1994
Part D
In Santa Ana Customshouse                       May 15, 1994
In Las Chinamas Customshouse                    July 15, 1994
In Hachadura Customshouse                       September 15, 1994
In San Cristobal Customshouse                   November 15, 1994
In Anguiatu Customshouse                        January 15, 1994
Part D
In El Poy Customshouse                          March 31, 1994
In Amatillo Customshouse                        May 31, 1994
In La Union Customshouse                        July 31, 1994
Page  13
Part E                                          March 31, 1994
Part F                                          January 31, 1994
