                     Document of
                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 29556

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (IDA-32700)

                         ON A

                        CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                        TO THE

               REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                        FOR A

Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project (LIL)




                     June 28, 2004

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Franc Rwandais (FRw)
                              FRw 535.62 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = 0.00186 FRw

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         African Development Bank
AFMS        Administrative and Financial Management Specialist
ARMD       Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
BNR        Banque Nationale du Rwanda
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CRDP       Community Reintegration and Development Project
DEM        Direction of Extension and Marketing
DPM        Direction de la Politique Monétaire
DRSA       Direction Régionale des Services Agricoles
EMES       Extension, Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
FEWS       Food Security Early Warning System
FRw        Franc Rwandais
FY         Fiscal year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
ICIF       Input Credit Insurance Facility
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM        Integrated Pest Management
 MIS       Management Information Systems
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
MINAGRI    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Forestry
MINECOFIN  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MININTER   Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement
NGO        Non-governmental organization
 PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PFI        Participating Financial Intermediaries
PNAS       Programme National d'Actions Sociales
PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
PS         Procurement Specialist
PSD        Private Sector Support Project
 RSSP      Rural Sector Support Project
 SLO       Specialized Local Organization
SFICF      Small Farmer Input Credit Facility
SIM        Système d'Information sur les Marchés
TSU        Technical Support Unit
UBP        Union des Banques Populaires du Rwanda

UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



                          Vice President:      Calisto Madavo
                       Country Director        Emannuel Mbi
                        Sector Manager         Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Ousmane Badiane

                                           RWANDA
                  Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project (LIL)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              32
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            40
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's Completion Report                                50

Project ID: P058038                                                  Project Name: Agricultural and Rural Market
                                                                     Development Project (LIL)
Team Leader: Ousmane Badiane                                         TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural and Rural Market Development                L/C/TF Number: IDA-32700
                            Project (LIL)
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (39%); Agricultural
                            marketing and trade (31%); Micro- and SME finance (22%); Central
                            government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural markets (P); Other rural
                            development (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/21/1999                                     Effective: 12/30/1999                12/30/1999
     Appraisal: 04/02/1999                                         MTR: 07/15/2001                  02/24/2002
      Approval: 07/01/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RWANDESE REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE; ANIMAL
                                           RESOURCES AND FORESTRY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader at ICR:             Ousmane Badiane                                Ousmane Badiane
ICR Primary Author:             Remileku Rakey Cole


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

1.       The project's main objective was to contribute to the revitalization of Rwanda's agricultural and
rural economy by successfully identifying policies and institutional mechanisms: (a) to promote efficient,
private sector based, local agricultural input distribution and output marketing systems in order (b) to raise
modern farm input use among farmers and thereby the productivity of labor and hence the levels of income
in the rural sector. The project's subsidiary objectives were to test alternative approaches to:

· Facilitate access of farmers to credit for modern farm inputs;
· Provide technical advisory services to farmers on the use of modern farm inputs;
· Encourage the emergence of a sustainable modern input import and distribution system; and
· Encourage investments by private traders in marketing services in rural areas.

2.       The above objectives are fully in line with the government's goal of fostering agricultural
intensification and commercialization of the primarily subsistence-oriented smallholder sector.            The
project's objectives were deemed achievable because its key activity components, in addition to being well
articulated with one another and mutually supportive, follow logically from these objectives.              The
significant results that were achieved already during the second year of the project are a good illustration of
that fact.

3.       Project Response: The project design was guided by: (a) a detailed analysis of the strategic issues
surrounding the question of agricultural intensification in Rwanda; and (b) a structured baseline survey,
using detailed questionnaires, of the input distribution, output marketing, rural transport, and farm
household sectors, both carried out during project identification. The first report of the former analyzed the
problem of agricultural intensification, identified the strategic issues and proposed policy options that have
served as guidelines in drawing the activities of the project. The baseline survey covered a representative
sample of 8 districts and included randomly selected samples of farm households, input distributors,
transporters, and output traders. The information gathered from the survey on the constraints to increased
supply and use of modern farm inputs as well as greater integration of farmers into the market exchange
system were used to finetune the design of the activities and mechanisms to be tested under the proposed
project. The project's main objective is well defined and the project responded adequately to the issues
highlighted in the strategic analysis as well as the baseline survey.

4.       Project Achievements: The project was successfully implemented in 20 districts representing
about 25% of the total number of districts; it affected 21,000 farm families, constituting a population of
1.05m, including about 1,000 lead farmers and 1,000 farmers associations. The project has reached its
objectives. The large majority of its impact indicators have been fully achieved, many substantially
exceeded. In line with its subsidiary objectives of testing alternative approaches indicated above, the
project has: (a) successfully mobilized private operators to enter the modern input import sector, especially
fertilizers; the number of fertilizer importers have increased several fold; likewise, imported quantities of
modern inputs have increased substantially; (b) succeeded in testing an innovative farmer-led extension
system that has achieved greater private sector involvement in the provision of agricultural advisory
services and greater responsiveness of these services to farmers' needs; and (c) provided incentives and
institutional support to encourage investment by private traders in marketing services in rural areas by
modernizing infrastructure and raising management capacities of marketing facilities.




                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's objectives were judged pertinent throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

In support of its objectives, the project had three components:

· Promotion of input use and distribution systems;
· Support to local agricultural marketing systems;
· Technical support, monitoring, and evaluation.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project was not redesigned during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

1.       The quality assurance group (QAG) rated the project `satisfactory' for quality at entry on the basis
of a review carried out in December 1999, prior to project effectiveness. The ICR also deems the quality at
entry of the project overall to be `satisfactory' and deems, as did the QAG review panel in 1999, that: (a)
the appropriateness of project concept, the clarity of the objectives and the use of a LIL to experiment with
the said approaches and (b) the quality of the Bank's input and processes during preparation to be highly
satisfactory, both representing the project's major strengths at entry.

2.       While "risk assessment and sustainability" was rated satisfactory at QAE, issues were raised, on
the project's classification as a Poverty Targeted Intervention (PTI) given the absence in its design, of
direct mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the effects of the project on the poor; rather the project carried
an assumption that any general improvement in the economic condition of farmers would automatically
result in poverty reduction. While this assumption may not necessarily have qualified the project as
poverty targeted at the design stage, it was in line with Rwanda Country Assistance Strategy. Moreover,
implementation has proven this assumption to be accurate and provided a learning of innovation experience
of strategies that are effective in rural poverty reduction in Rwanda.

3.       The operation was considered `ambitious' in nature and therefore, adequate and careful monitoring
was maintained throughout implementation on the basis of the ample data and information that was
assembled for its preparation. The project preparation was guided by sector analysis and stakeholder
surveys and an institutional analysis namely:

(a) A strategy note on the issues related to the intensification of agricultural production in Rwanda and
modern input use, and the operations of local input and output markets;

(b) A structured baseline survey, using detailed questionnaires, of the input distribution, output marketing,
rural transport, and farm household sectors. The survey provided a baseline data base against which future
project impact were evaluated, in addition to two technical notes on (i) the constraints to higher modern
input adoption and (ii) the characteristics and opportunities of modern input distribution and output
marketing systems;




                                                      - 3 -

(c) An assessment of the capacities of NGOs (local and international) involved in rural development in
Rwanda, with a view to their participation in the implementation of project activities;

(d) An environmental analysis ­ in lieu of a full assessment, given that the project was rated category B;

(e) An IPM study to develop a Pest Management Plan to address risk factors and potentially negative
effects associated with utilization of modern inputs, particularly pesticides.

4.      The overall design and implementation arrangements, which were guided by the above studies and
assessments, in addition to extensive consultations with Government and other sector stakeholders, is
judged to be sound. Given the fact that the project was a Learning and Innovation Loan, it had to be
prepared fast track (eight months) to permit sufficient scope to implement pilot activities in preparation for
a full scale support program in the rural sector. Weaknesses at the time of project processing were the
large number of conditions of effectiveness (eight) and one condition of disbursement. Some of these
conditions, such as (i) the appointment of a qualified audit firm that is satisfactory to IDA, (ii)
supplemental legal opinion confirming that the subsidiary loan agreement and project agreement have been
duly and legally binding on BNR authorized and ratified by BNR, and (iii) letter to IDA clarifying the
meaning of emergency reintegration and poverty alleviation programs in Ministerial instruction No 01/99
on regulatory framework for distribution of modern farm inputs, are normally met for appraisal and proved
to be sources for delayed effectiveness and start-up implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
1.      The project has achieved its overall objective and outcomes. The impact of project activities were
evaluated based on the indicators identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the development
objectives and output targets defined therein (See Annex 1). The review of the project impact was based on
comparison of the results of the baseline survey of beneficiary farm households and crop marketing and
input distribution sectors in the project areas and the two subsequent updates carried out during the second
and final years of project implementation.     Consideration was also given to available information on the
input import sector, the outcome of participatory extension activities, and other on-farm advisory services.

2.      The key project outcome and output indicators are summarized in Annex 1 and include: (a) the
percent increase (+75%) in the quantities of modern used per capita by beneficiary farmers compared to the
baseline levels; (b) the percent increase (+75%) in the average output per capita among beneficiary
farmers; (c) the percent increase (+100%) in the number of modern input importers; (d) the percent
increase (+100%) in the volume of modern farm inputs imported by the private sector; (e) the minimum
share (90%) of beneficiary farmers that have received training in the use of modern farm inputs; (f) the
percent increase (+50%) in the quantities marketed by beneficiary farmers; and (g) the number (15) of
improved agricultural marketing sites.

3.      The rating of satisfactory outcome is based on the following results which shows the impact that
has been achieved during project implementation under each of the two main project's objectives. A
overview of individual outcome and output indicators at the beginning and end of project can be found in
the Key Performance Indicators/Logframe Matrix and Tables a to e in Annex 1, and in the summary of the
Beneficiary Survey Results in Annex 8. Per capita numbers in the case of farm households refer to
individual beneficiary farmers who usually represent an entire household. In other words, per capita in the
case of beneficiary farmers is to be understood as per farm household.




                                                      - 4 -

Objective 1: To Promote efficient, private sector-based, local agricultural input distribution and
output marketing systems:

(a) The aggregate number of private fertilizer importers (NPK, Urea, and DAP) increased from 5 to 30,
representing a 600 percent increase compared to the project's end target of 75 percent. This excludes
institutional (parastatals, large agribusiness companies) and informal cross-border importers in the
province of Ruhengeri, who have not used resources from the project's line of credit through local
commercial banks but who have contributed about 20 percent of total imports into the country;

(b) Cumulative quantities of modern inputs imported into the country during the three-year implementation
period increased from 674 tons at baseline to 7000 tons by project closing. This represents more than
tenfold increase compared to the project target of a 100 percent increase.

(c) Average marketed quantities of inputs per retail trader increased significantly from the baseline
averages as follows: NPK - from 16.7 tons to 43 tons; Urea from 4.7 tons to 21 tons and seeds from 0.21
tons to 14 tons. End of project target was a 75-percent increase across the board.

(d) High output levels by beneficiary farmers have affected the trading activities of private traders through
the increase in average quantities of selected crop sales by private traders as follows: beans - from 18 kg to
66 kg; potatoes - from 17 kg to 128 kg; and sorghum - from 13 kg to 148 kg;

Objective 2: To raise modern farm input use among farmers and thereby the productivity of labor and
the level of income:

(a) Input use increased significantly among beneficiary farmers by the following quantities compared to
the baseline averages: beans seeds - from 3.9 kg to 10.7 kg; maize seeds - from 8.8 kg to 60 kg; Urea - 2.0
to 19.6; NPK 3.8 kg to 29.3 kg. The rates of changes in all these areas (input imports, marketing, and
utilization) have far exceeded their respective targets of 75 - 100%

(b)   Average output per capita of key crops among beneficiary farmers increased by the following
quantities: beans - from 27kg to 347 kg; potatoes - from 387 kg to 2636 kg; cassava - from 390 kg to
1061 kg; bananas - from 361 kg to 6897 kg; and sorghum - from 27 kg to 500kg. The respective targets
have also been significantly exceeded;

(c) Quantities of output marketed per capita, by beneficiary farmers of same key crops increased by the
following quantities: beans - from 30 kg to 174 kg; potatoes from 86 kg to 1904 kg; cassava - from 66 kg
to 574 kg; bananas - from 164 kg to 5813 kg; and sorghum - from 15 kg to 365 kg;

(d) Estimates made from five provinces for which data was available throughout project period (see table 3,
annex 8) show that net average income from farm production by beneficiary farm households across the
five provinces increased from Rfw229,000 in 1998 to Rfw 943,000 in 2001 and reached Rfw 1.05 million
in 2002. Net income is estimated as gross value of production minus costs of inputs including seeds. The
figures show that net average incomes across the five provinces ranged from Frw 6,694 to Frw 383,103 in
1998 but increased to a range of Frw 51,111 to Frw Frw 685,414 in 2001. They reached a range of Frw
74,265 to Frw 854,468 in 2002. These figures reveal a marked increase in net average income of 350%
across the five provinces over the project period.

(e) The technical skills of more than 20,000 farmers have been strengthened through in-depth training on
the use of modern farm inputs and the management of credit.



                                                      - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1: Promotion of input use and distribution systems.

The specific objectives of this component are: (i) to sustainably raise the supply of modern farm
inputs, i.e., fertilizers, improved seeds, agro-chemicals, and livestock supplies; and (ii) to stimulate
demand and facilitate access by farmers to these inputs. This component is rated satisfactory.

Main activities under this component include:

(a) Farmer access to seasonal credit for modern farm inputs through (i) a line of credit (LOC) to
private importers of modern farm inputs; (ii) an Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF) to make term
credit available to farmers in case of production shortfalls from natural calamities; (iii) a Small
Farmer Input Credit Facility (SFICF) for farmer cooperative lending for the acquisition of inputs;

Implementation Performance and Output by activity

1. Line of Credit - LOC:          Its initial objectives (to mobilize the private sector in the import and
    distribution of inputs to farmers) had already been fully achieved before the project's planned closing
    date of June 30th 2003. The sub-loans that had already been granted by the Commercial Banks had
    amounted to US$1.28m representing 64% of the total amount allocated under the LOC. All loans had
    already been fully paid with no recorded delays which represents a noteworthy outcome in the context
    of Rwanda. In light of the early achievement of this objective with less than the total allocated
    resources, the Government requested that the remaining funds from the LOC be re-allocated to other
    project activities.

2. Input Credit Insurance Facility - ICIF was created to provide incentives to private traders to sell
    fertilizers on credit, in particular, by eliminating the default risk that might have resulted from
    changing climatic conditions, was started with an initial Borrower contribution of US$100,000.
    Continued funding for the facility was generated through loan repayments from input importers under
    the LOC which had increased the ICIF resources to an equivalent of US$ 800,000 by the second
    quarter of 2003. While input import quantities had continued to increase several-fold during project
    implementation, traders continued to sell primarily on a cash bases generating no need for the ICIF
    resources. The Government and the Bank therefore agreed during the July 2003 supervision mission
    that the future use of the ICIF resources would best be served under the Small Farmers Input
    Insurance Facility (SFICF), designed to provide small grants for the establishment of revolving credit
    schemes for the acquisition of modern inputs.

3.   Small Farmer Input Credit Facility - SFICF: The facility ensured broad access to credit through
    grants provided to farmer groups to encourage cooperative lending activities for input acquisition. It
    was added during negotiations at the request of the Borrower and became operational more than a year
    after effectiveness. The Facility, once operational in 2001, was implemented through the vast network
    of cooperative banks that are part the Union des Banques Populaires (UBP). Even with its late start,
    disbursement increased steadily and so did the number of farmers and farmers associations receiving
    credit. By the end of the first year of implementation, the SFICF resources had already been exhausted



                                                      - 6 -

    rendering it necessary to increase significantly, the original allocation. The SFICF utilization has had
    phenomenal impact on the demand for modern agricultural inputs and along with the training program,
    and extension activities, has resulted in increased per capita production of key crops within a range of
    800% to 1800% during project implementation (see annex 1).

(b) Advisory services for the adoption of modern farm inputs and access to credit to farmers through
specialized local organizations (SLOs) and producer groups. This included training and demonstration
activities as well as support to the access, use, and management of credit;

Implementation performance and output

1. Advisory Services: The project's approach was very effective in the provision of advisory services to
    raise the adoption and improve the utilization of farm inputs. The project subcontracted with 6 SLOs
    in 21 districts and mobilized MINAGRI extension services in 5 others to provide in-depth training and
    technical support to more than 1,000 farmers associations involving about 21,000 farmers. 10,000
    demonstration plots have been established under the leadership of the lead farmers. The high rate of
    adoption of demonstrated techniques is a good indication of how well the component has performed.
    Early adopters had already started moving ahead of the project after the first year and some farmers
    have promptly continued to replicate the demonstrated techniques on their own plots.      By the end of
    the project, all beneficiary farmers directly applied new technologies. The technology dissemination
    and demonstration activities have proven very sustainable, lead farmers as well as their respectively
    trained groups of farmers (20 trainers) continue to conduct extension in their respective associations.
    Verifications from the various operating districts concludes that the innovative farmer-based extension
    system is both effective and sustainable.

    A collaborative program for service provision has been established between farmers and SLOs with the
    option for farmers to pay for advisory services received. The option to pay was a proposition that
    came from farmers themselves. Other elements of sustainability are that (i) existing MINAGRI
    capacity has been strengthened; (ii) targeted complementarity has been established between extension
    services and SLO support;        and (iii) a clear transition program has been prepared an is being
    implemented.

(c) Multiplication and distribution of improved seeds encouraged farmers to engage in seed multiplication
and traders in seed distribution across local markets. SLOs and Producer groups conducted targeted
technical training and advisory services support.

Implementation Performance and Output

1. Seed multiplication:       Output in the area of multiplication and distribution of improved seeds is
    satisfactory in the rice sector, but less so in other sectors. An important collaboration program
    initiated with WARDA, introduced nine hundred (900) new lines of NERICA rice varieties which were
    tested at the Institute des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda (ISAR). Through the program, two
    approaches, the participatory varietal selection (PVS) and the community based seed multiplication
    approach to multiply and disseminate successful varieties have been introduced. The preliminary
    results show that out of the 900 varieties introduced, only 40 have not responded to the conditions in
    Rwanda. 50 varieties have been pre-selected and distributed for participatory on-farm selection. As a
    result of this program, 120 Mts of improved rice seeds have been produced and a further 1,500 ha have
    been planted. It is expected that within 2 to 3 years, new responsive varieties will be available to rice
    growers in Rwanda. In the meantime, in collaboration with the National Seed Services (NSS) and


                                                      - 7 -

     farmer associations in the country's five major rice growing perimeters, the project has supported the
     multiplication and distribution of more than 3 tons of improved local rice seeds, sufficient to cover the
     need for the country's 3600 ha currently under cultivation in these perimeters.             In addition, a
     convention signed with NSS covered the need for base seeds in other sectors.

Component 2: Support to local agricultural marketing systems.

This component was designed to: (i) encourage farmers to enter the market exchange system; and (ii) to
improve the performance of local markets in the rural areas. The component is rated satisfactory:

(a) Crop conservation, processing and marketing technologies through: (i) training to promote improved
crop conservation and marketing techniques among farmers; and (ii) funding of R&D activities to develop,
test, and disseminate adapted crop processing technologies.          Key outputs include:      (1) prevision of
improved crop conservation , processing and marketing techniques; (2) strengthening of rural agricultural
marketing poles; (c) support to private traders investing in marketing services.

Implementation performance and output

1. Crop Conservation and Marketing: The project has been successful in carrying out only two of the
     three main activities it has initiated. Various processing technologies were pilot tested in the provinces
     of Umutara and Gitarama but needed to be scaled up to allow significant impact. Main activities
     included (i) a convention signed with the Kigali Institute of Technology (KIST) to develop and
     disseminate adapted technologies and pilot adapted storage systems; (ii) testing of technologies for the
     processing of soybean and sunflower and (iii) testing of small scale storage technologies. The
     convention with KIST, which did not make progress, was cancelled late in the project's implementation
     process (3rd quarter of 2003). The unused resources were re-allocated, at the Government's request, to
     other activities geared towards the acquisition of small processing technologies. Adapted technologies
     for the processing of soybean (tofu and milk) and sunflower (oil) for marketing have been fully adopted
     in the province of Gitarama. Prepared tofu and bottled sunflower oil are being marketed successfully
     in local markets by Farmers associations and one of the key issues now is meeting the demand for both
     along with their by-products (e.g. animal feed from sunflower extracts and other by-products of
     soybean). SLOs are currently working with small scale farmers to develop a promotional program for
     the continued implementation of processing activities. Success has also been achieved in sourcing and
     pilot testing innovative, low-cost small-scale storage technologies. Fifteen hermetic silos ranging from
     5MT to 150MT and grain safes between 0.5MT and 1MT                   have been successfully piloted and
     distributed selectively across the 20 project operational districts. Training on the use of the facilities
     have been conducted and preliminary signs for adoption levels are encouraging. However, given the
     low level grain availability, adoption levels could not be determined prior to project closing. Plans are
     in place to continue storage in collaboration with the rice activities within the upscaled RSSP program.

(b) Strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles was conducted through the provision of grants to
local communities for the improvement of basic marketing infrastructure, the strengthening of local
capacities to effectively manage rural marketing sites, and training of private traders to raise their
management skills.

Implementation performance and output

1. Strengthening of Rural Agricultural Marketing Poles: Technical studies carried out for the first set of
     four market sites revealed that the planned budget for the activity would not be sufficient due to the


                                                      - 8 -

    rapid changes in the Rwandan economy between the reference planning period and the situation during
    implementation; consequently, the number of sites were reduced to 15 from the 21 previously planned.
    The construction of 15 markets sites have been completed satisfactorily. Management committees
    including traders and local administration representatives are operational in all markets. The training
    program for traders on the management of marketing sites and distribution services has been
    established and training for the first batch of four markets have been completed. Training for the
    remaining management committees (11 markets) and the follow-up activities for market management
    will be continued beyond the life of the project and has been included in the transition program to be
    implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture using training materials developed by the project.

(c) Support to private sector investment in marketing services included the promotion of investment in
marketing services through technical and institutional support to traders and producer groups to facilitate
their access to and management of credit from local banks for investment in infrastructure and equipment
for storage, processing, transport, and marketing of agricultural products.

Implementation performance and output

1. Marketing Services: Advisory services for the investment in marketing services has been successfully
    provided to 400 traders. Services included training of management committees of traders associations;
    training of traders; and other aspects of capacity strengthening to support newly constructed markets.

Component 3: Technical support, monitoring, and evaluation.

The main tasks under this component were to: (i) coordinate the implementation of project activities,
specifically to work with local organizations and specialized NGOs to provide effective technical support to
beneficiary groups; (ii) manage project funds, including the (a) preparation and production of annual
financial statements; (b) monitoring of all disbursement activities; (c) monitoring the records and accounts
of all components; and (d) implement a detailed monitoring and reporting system focusing on both output
and outcome of the project. M&E activities included organizing the updates of the baseline surveys and
gathering other necessary information at the district level to evaluate and document progress status of
project activities. This component is rated satisfactory.

1. Technical Support: The Technical Support Unit has performed highly satisfactorily in piloting a
    farmer-led extension services, working through SLOs to provide technical support to beneficiary
    farmers. While all planned activities have been completed and the formal agreement between the
    project, the SLOs and the MINAGRI district extension staff is no longer in effect. A transitional
    extension program has been put in place in collaboration with the upscaled RSSP within the MINAGRI
    for sustained farmer-led extension in the 20 operational districts.

2. Project Management: The quality of financial management of the project is satisfactory in general.
    The 2002 interim audit report highlighted a few administrative weaknesses that has been addressed by
    the project. Procurement management has been satisfactory overall, however, procurement has been
    hampered by contracts under the NTB threshold of Rfw 3.00 mill., which, in some cases have caused
    significant delays due to controls by the Ministry of Agriculture. The initial rate of disbursement
    overall has been relatively slow due to two main factors: (i) the initial delay in project implementation
    start-up and (ii) activities that were subcontracted to SLOs which have been pre-financed by the latter
    to be reimbursed at the end the first contract year. Following the successful completion of the first
    year, the project proceeded by providing advances to SLOs for the implementation of field activities
    and that move helped the disbursement rate. Infrequent submission, another factor that hampered


                                                     - 9 -

     disbursement, picked up after the MTR.

3. M & E: The monitoring of field activities has been highly satisfactory. The monitoring system has
     been very efficient in tracking all field activities in terms of planned costs, planned timing and planned
     outputs. Some of the SLOs with whom the project has been working have adopted the M&E system
     and are now using it in their regular work outside of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Due to the LIL nature of the project, an economic analysis was not conducted at preparation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has made substantial institutional development impact in the following ways:

(a) The project has successfully promoted the emergence of private sector based input import and
distribution system for the first time in the country's history and this has contributed to achieving the
Government's goal of enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the private sector

(b) It has provided a model and guidance for Government and other development projects in its maximum
use of local institutions to implement project activities. Besides the success in ensuring proximity
and participation, the added benefit is that the sub-contracting arrangements with local organizations
contributed to promoting the emergence of a local market for technical advisory services that have clearly
outlived the project;

(c)     The project has successfully strengthened local institutions to function more efficiently in the
agriculture and rural sector in the following ways:
(i) the existing capacities of the MINAGRI extension system has been strengthened to work more
effectively with farmer associations;
(ii) the technical and organizational capacities of farmers associations has been strengthened through
training and on-farm demonstrations to enhance their agricultural and off-farm activities;
(iii) the lead-farmer extension system has been institutionalized and informal proposals are being made to
create careers for lead farmers;
(iv) local non-government institutions (SLO) have now acquired the ability to provide services to
agricultural clients and develop business relationship with government and local entities;
(v) local community groups have now acquired the capacity and know-how to manage marketing sites and
agricultural business activities;
(vi) targeted complementarity/collaboration has been established between extension services and local
organizations in the provision of advisory services;
(vii) strong ties have been established between farmers association and local agricultural institutions
(KIST, NSS, ISAR).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

1. There were no apparent factors outside the control of the Government or the implementation agency



                                                       - 10 -

    that affected the project's implementation and outcome. However, the depreciation of the Rwandan
    franc could have raised the price of modern inputs in local markets and thereby jeopardize the objective
    of raising access to and use of modern inputs. The effect of the exchange rate was mitigated by lower
    input costs through the emerging private sector which resulted in nearly steady prices in nominal terms
    throughout most of the project life.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Plant protection law

1.   Knowledge and skills in the adoption of integrated pest management practices for sustainable crop
production are strongly lacking within the national agricultural extension services system in Rwanda. A
Plant Protection Law and a national Pesticides Registration and Control Scheme is absent and thus risks
associated with pesticide abuse by importers and users are potentially high.                  One of the main
recommendations from the IPM study, undertaken early during project implementation, was that the GOR
(i) finalize and make effective, the draft Plant Protection Law initiated in 1998 and (ii) through the
ARMDP support both its implementation and that of the Pesticide Registration and Control Scheme. The
plant protection law is yet to be finalized and this has implications on continued project operations in the
context of the follow-up RSSP as well as within the MINAGRI.

Establishment of an MIS System:

2.    The project was to implement a Market Information System (MIS) that would consolidate and
disseminate price data of agricultural products and inputs across 30 markets distributed in all provinces of
the country. In preparation for this, the project established a collaborative program with the MINAGRI's
newly established MIS unit and an on-going PASAR project which had been gathering market price data
for a number of years but with limited capacities for data gathering and dissemination. The ultimate goal of
the MIS system was to disseminate price data on a daily basis. While all preparation for the MIS system
was undertaken by the project, it faced difficulties in the actual launching due to delays in obtaining the
necessary clearance/approval from the MINAGRI.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Financial Management:

1. As a condition of effectiveness, a financial management/accounting software was selected and installed
to conduct the day-to-day financial management of the project. The software however, was never used by
the project staff who were able to maintain an up-to-date, satisfactory accounting of project expenditures
using a parallel system on an excel software. It is the general view of the project staff however, that the
installation of the software, as an effectiveness condition, that is, prior to the full recruitment of the project
team, or in some cases, while the project staff was still very new to the project, served as a handicap as the
team were not in a position to apply themselves effectively, to the productive use of the software. A lesson
drawn from this handicap is that such a software be installed about six months or so after project start-up
when the full project team is in place and are able to identify problems that could easily be resolved with
the software.

2. Throughout implementation, (i) the turnover of financial management personnel and (ii) inadequate
capacity to conduct the tasks caused difficulties in overall financial management, and maintenance of
project financial records, procurement records, as well as maintaining order in its disbursement activities.



                                                    - 11 -

Periodic training of financial management personnel is recommended for the future upscaled RSSP project,
along with close monitoring by the Bank's Country Office based Financial Management Staff.

M&E:

3. One of the strong aspects of the project is the maintenance of a systematic and detailed monitoring and
reporting system focusing on both output and outcome of the project activities. Experience after the first
six months of the project M&E of field activities revealed that the system, while designed to do so, did not
capture the effectiveness and impact of activities on the ground. For instance, training conducted showed
targets achieved such as people trained, timing and costs, however, it was deficient in showing the quality
and effectiveness of training on participants. To address this and several related issues, the project team
re-designed field reports and demonstration plans to reflect the quality and depth of field activities. Further
evaluation of the M&E system following that adjustment portrayed greater success and show detailed
outcomes of field activities.

Project Implementation Timeline:

4. The project could not adhere to its implementation timeline and required a six-month extension of the
closing date for the following reasons:

(a) Project implementation at start-up experienced an initial delay of about six months due to the slowness
in appointing project support staff and hiring the Specialized Local Organizations (SLOs), through which
several activities were implemented;

(b) One or two of the project activities were moving much slower than anticipated, in particular, the
utilization of the Line of Credit (LOC). As of the first quarter of 2003, only about a third (40%) of the
LOC resources had been disbursed. The utilization of the Line of Credit had been slow due to two main
factors: (i) the initial attempt, by the Government of Rwanda, to limit the margin charged by Commercial
Banks to 4% (which was 50% less than their regular margin) discouraged many banks to use the line of
credit extensively. This lack of incentive for banks delayed the implementation of the LOC for at least a
year when the margin was freed and banks were given the leeway to set the margin at which they lend; and
(ii) the stipulation, that the contribution of the line of credit to the cost of import operations by a given
trader would be reduced from 70% for the first operation to 55% for the second and 40% for the third and
subsequent operations, had been understood by local banks to mean that the balance had to be covered by
the out-of-pocket contributions of traders. Traders had therefore avoided using the line of credit beyond the
first application until the necessary clarification was made;

(c) The Small Farmer Input Credit Facility became operational more than a year after project effectiveness.
This activity was added during negotiations to provide farmers and farmers associations the scope and
purchasing power for input acquisition through traders and importers. It was thus necessary to prepare the
sub-component and elaborate its implementation procedures late in the process.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual total project cost were US$5.59 million compared with the appraisal estimate of US$5.61 million.
Government contributions amounted to US$0.61. As of May 25, 2004, IDA contribution totaled US$4.78
million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$5 million. The credit is almost fully disbursed at 92.99
percent. An undisbursed balance of US$384,702 remains. The closing date for the credit was extended
once, for a six-month period of June 30, 2003 to December 31st 2003 to ensure completing of all initiated
activities.



                                                      - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely: Rating for sustainability is being based on an assessment of pre- and post-project implementation
in terms of targeted outcomes and performance, demonstrating that the achievements generated would be
maintained:

1.       Policy and Institutional Reforms: The project has successfully identified an effective set of
policies, incentives and institutional mechanisms to encourage the private sector to enter the
importing, marketing, and trading systems of agriculture which represents the country's largest
economic sector. It has done so through innovative strategies which have complemented policy
reforms with targeted local institutions and technical support for response by the private sector.
Through the policy and institutional support provided, the project has fueled the Government's
efforts to deepen economic and institutional reforms as a means of improving competitiveness of
the economy. It has successfully contributed to laying a strong foundation for sustained private
sector-led growth in the agricultural sector by encouraging investment and by enhancing
cooperation between the private and public sectors. The project has successfully provided the
following key policy and institutional support to ensure its sustainability:

(a) Removal of 20% tax of imported inputs;
(b) Elimination of subsidies;
(c) Elimination/restriction of free distribution of inputs;
(d) Promotion of participation of the private sector/NGOs in enterprise delivery;
(e) Creation of an institutional environment for the emergence of private-sector a based input import and
distribution system for the first time in Rwanda's history;
(f) Development of a farmer-led, demand driven extension system;
(g) Creation of a framework for rural savings and loan (Banques Populaires) to lend to farmers for
investment in modern inputs;
(h) Setting up of management committees allowing cooperation between local administration and traders
to mainstream marketing infrastructure.

2.       Input Supply System: Prior to the initiation of the project -

(a) Very few traders were willing to or had the capacity to source fertilizers from foreign suppliers; the
project has successfully provided, through the LOC, incentives and support to (i) private traders to enter
the input importing sector and establish a sustainable business relationship with foreign suppliers and (ii)
banks to lend to traders and thus sustain business relationship for fertilizer related activities. Moreover, the
project has attracted and retained several new private input importers who continue importation activities
outside of the LOC;

(b) Farmers had very little know-how on the access to and use of modern inputs. The project has, through
technical advisory services coupled with the small farmer input credit facility (SFICF), successfully
stimulated demand for modern inputs and created markets and business opportunities for the emerging
input distribution sector;

(c) Price distortions and other policy obstacles had created disincentives to private operators. The project
has been instrumental in ensuring that Government take the necessary measures to eliminate those



                                                     - 13 -

disincentives in particular (i) the removal of a 20% tax on imported inputs and (ii) the prohibition of
subsidized or free distribution of modern inputs;

(d) Farmers could not adequately access inputs due to limited availability and high prices in local markets.
The project has succeeded in establishing effective demand through increased fertilizer supplies and
consequently, fertilizer prices in the local markets remained stable throughout, despite the strong
appreciation of the US dollar against the Rwandese franc when real prices (e.g. 2000/2001) had declined
by at least 30%;

(e) The European Union had set up a program that directly or indirectly imported modern farm inputs,
namely fertilizer, for sale through private distributors. However, this served as a disincentive for private
traders to develop business contact with foreign suppliers and therefore, did not contributed significantly to
an effective private-sector based modern farm input supply system.

(f)  At the close of the ARMDP, there is an eminent risk of further intervention into the fertilizer
distribution system by the European Union through the STABEX fund. A strong recommendation of the
ICR is that sustainability be ensured through continued work with the private sector on fertilizer import and
distribution.  Further intervention through subsidization would erode the Government's 3-year effort,
through the ARMDP project, in making fertilizer available to farmers.


Marketing activities: Prior to the initiation of the project -

(a) There was a high level of subsistence orientation among smallholder farmers; higher levels of outputs
and overall marketed surpluses have increases significantly for the three main crops (beans, potatoes and
sorghum) and this has triggered a change in the subsistence orientation among smallholder farmers in the
district where project was operational;

(b) There was a high level of market segmentation and a subsequent low intensity of commodity movement
across markets. The construction and rehabilitation of local marketing sites have stimulated marketing
activities among local markets. In particular, the reduced distance among markets have increased the
intensity of commodity movements.

Follow-on project:

(a) Many of the project's activities are being scaled up or replicated through a major agricultural sector
support program (RSSP) which was envisaged by the government early during the design of the LIL and
which is based o the reform objectives outlined for the LIL implementation. The centerpiece of the RSSP
program is agricultural intensification and diversification of the rural economy, both of which requires the
effective and sustainable input and output distribution systems that has been successfully put in place by
the LIL. Lessons derived from the LIL have made major contributions to the design and implementation of
the RSSP.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The follow-on project, RSSP through which many of the project's pilot activities are to be replicated or
scaled up is based on the reform objectives outlined in the project. A transitional program has been put in
place in collaboration with the MINAGRI and the RSSP team. The continued implementation of some of
the project's activities will be housed and conducted within the MINAGRI under the supervision of the
Directorate of Extension.


                                                    - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Highly Satisfactory: The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project
was highly satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps for intervention in Rwanda's
agriculture and rural sector. In particular, it identified an effective set of policies, incentives and
institutional mechanisms that ensured a smooth operation of the input supply system that was being
piloted. Furthermore, it proposed support and innovative strategies that complemented policy
reforms with targeted local institutions for response by respective target groups. The project
design ensured consistency with the Government's development priorities and the Bank's country
assistance strategy. In addition, the project design included non-traditional innovative means that
derived high impact and outputs that exceeded their targets by far. The preparation team was of
good skill mix that provided for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

The Bank's preparation and appraisal processes incorporated adequate design of all major and
relevant aspects including technical, financial, economic and institutional as well as procurement
and financial management. Furthermore, the Bank assessed the project's critical risks and
proposed measures to mitigate those risks. The Bank maintained a good relationship with the
Borrower during preparation and appraisal and was involved in extensive stakeholder
consultations with the Borrower and this reinforced ownership that proved invaluable during
implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project is rated Satisfactory.       Adequate supervision was conducted with close
monitoring twice a year on average, adhering closely to the Bank's guidelines for supervision. Supervisors
were carried out jointly by the Government and the Bank and implementation shortfalls were identified
early and addressed proactively with the strong support of the MINAGRI. Great attention was paid to
likely development impacts and deviations were promptly picked up and reversed through advice, agreed
actions and follow-up. The skill mix and continuity of staff and consultants for supervision was adequate;
there was no staff/consultant turnover. The team remained intact except for additional expertise that were
included as necessary. Planning and timing of supervision missions was adequate, Bank and field office
managers were involved at critical points and field office staff were fully involved in missions as necessary.
PSR ratings accorded for each supervision mission was realistic and loan covenants were closely monitored
by supervision teams. The Bank supervision teams had a consistently good relationship with the project and
government teams and ample opportunities were available for constructive and open exchange. The LIL
nature of the project warranted much time for communication and learning in the context of testing
strategies and institutional arrangements.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower



                                                    - 15 -

7.4 Preparation:

Highly Satisfactory. The borrower displayed high commitment to the concept, objectives and innovative
nature of the project. During the conception and preparation phase, the MINAGRI staff played a crucial
role in providing the necessary support in ensuring all needed actions are undertaken, reflecting the high
priority that the Government attach to agriculture and rural development. Likewise, rural communities,
agricultural clients, and local institutions responded proactively to the concept and ideas put forward. The
MINAGRI worked throughout preparation with Bank preparation teams and, guided by the studies
conducted, provided input in elaborating the elements under each component as well as the financial,
institution and environmental factors.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory overall but there were some important
shortcomings.     Government consistently maintained its financial and legal covenant requirements
throughout implementation. The counterpart funds provided were more than required and expected. It also
adopted and maintained all agreed upon policy measures. On the other hand, the project experienced
significant delays in acquiring clearances for procurement related issues as well as decisions to take certain
steps during the implementation process. This has resulted in the inability of the project to implement the
Market Information System and complete the training of market management committees before project
closing. Also, follow up on actions agreed upon during missions has often been quite slow.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. In view of its size, the TSU has
performed extremely well in providing technical oversight and M&E.             Staff turnover for financial
management has, however, caused some shortfalls in financial management, the frequency of disbursement
request and production of audit reports; action plans following all audit exercises have been put in place
and implemented in a timely manner. Procurement, on the other hand went smoothly given the support they
received from the Bank's Field Procurement staff.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      Key lessons derived from project implementation and recommendations for future activities:

One of the main goals of the design of the project was to determine (a) the extent to which the project has
performed and achieved its development objectives and (b) how replicable its activities are based on the
following learning and innovation objectives: (i) to sustainably improve the supply of and access to modern
farm inputs in the context of liberalized markets; (ii) accelerate the transition towards greater market
orientation among Rwanda's farmers; and (iii) foster the emergence of markets for technical and
institutional advisory services in rural areas. The achievement of the learning and innovation experience is
demonstrated through the effectiveness of the approaches used and the following lessons derived from
implementation:

1. Input Supply System :




                                                     - 16 -

The project implementation has shown that a viable and sustainable input supply system is possible in the
context of Rwanda under the right set of policies, incentives and institutional mechanisms. The project's
main approach in ensuring such a viability was to identify and remove main bottlenecks that would
encourage private sector entry into the input supply system. The two policy reforms that represented the
major strength in the project's implementation was the support for the removal, by Government of the
import tax on the importation of agricultural inputs during the period of project implementation and the
decision to eliminate subsidies and limit free distribution of inputs. A key recommendation highlighted
during the evaluation of the project is that the exemption of the import tax, due to expire in 2005, be
renewed to avoid its affect on fertilizer imports as well as price in the upcoming few years that are critical
for Rwanda's agricultural growth. The following lessons are to be learned from the implementation of
project activities for the supply of inputs in Rwanda:

Line Of Credit :

(a) Given the significant investment of large-scale importers in the input supply business, there is a need to
ensure profitability and greater knowledge of inputs on the part of suppliers;
(b) The project has induced a positive change in the attitudes and behavior of Rwanda's Banking system
towards lending to agricultural entities. Both commercial and local banks are now convinced of alternatives
available for investment in the agricultural and livestock sector;
(c) Information about the project's activities could have been more widely disseminated to allow for greater
sensitization about project activities beyond the urban Kigali.

Small Farmer Import Credit Facility :

(a) The combination of revolving scheme in the rural areas and the targeted training of farmers in the use
and management of credit in beneficiary areas represents a major break through in terms of access to credit
and modern inputs for farmers in Rwanda. Schemes have provided farmers associations the scope to work
in teams for credit purposes and other agricultural (extension) activities;
(b) Access to inputs through resources from the credit schemes has, combined with the extension program
for input use, stimulated significant yield increases in main crops and improved farmers' understanding of
input use;
(c) The staff of the local rural banks have limited understanding of the modalities and procedures for
granting the SFICF. There is a need to establish workable mechanisms for the implementation of input
credit activities;
(d) The interest rate charged on the SFICF was considered relatively high by some beneficiaries leaving the
desire for review and possible revision. On the contrary, the lesson derived is that access and technical
know-how including management of credit matter much more;
(e) Additional mechanisms should be put in place for rural micro finance through other institutions;
(f) Local leaders need to be sensitize on the management of input credit;

Input Credit Insurance Facility:

The fact that the ICIF resources were never put into use as planned indicates that even though it might be a
good strategy for protecting importers and traders in circumstances of low/non repayment resulting from
weather failures, it was not applicable under the circumstances of the LIL. No informed climatic calamities
occurred in project areas during implementation. Non-the-less, the following important lessons may be
applied to the future use of similar insurance facilities designed to address risks related natural calamities:

(a) A clear mechanism guided by specific criteria be put in place to assess the extent of damage


                                                      - 17 -

experienced by farmers from natural disasters, this was not evident in the ICIF implementation procedures;
(b) ICIF resources be managed by a competent institution such as an insurance firm, agricultural banking
or micro-finance institution;

2. Extension System :

The use of SLOs in project implementation and the introduced culture of lead farmer extension system in
particular, the demonstration of field activities, have made positive changes in the Rwandan cropping
system. The lead farmer extension system should therefore be adopted at the national level, and the concept
broadened and replicated to other sectors for developmental activities. The following lessons are derived
from the implementation of extension activities:

SLOs and Lead Farmer Extension System:

(a) Project activities ended too soon for beneficiaries;
(b) Extension activities did not sufficiently cover (i) environmental protection; (ii) adequate link/contact
between input traders and farmers;
(c)   Future activities under the lead farmer extension should include a more enhanced            monitoring
mechanism;
(d) Given the successful nature of the implementation of the lead farmer extension system and in view of
the scope for national adoption, the Government should (i) set up a network and develop a system, a forum
or body where farmers could periodically convene to discuss constraints and solutions; (ii) reinforce and
integrate agricultural extension activities at different levels to include cropping, processing and
conservation, and marketing activities; (iii) create a formal system of support and capacity reinforcement
for lead farmers; (iv) provide the scope for farmers in lead roles to take on extension as a career and work
in a more formal environment.

Training Program

(a) Farmers were trained on many activities using detailed curricula and well prepared training materials.
However, there was insufficient scope to apply several aspects of the training components;
(b) There was no consideration for gender issues in training program;

3. Seed Multiplication and Distribution Activities:

The project has initiated a sustainable method of seed multiplication and distribution in Ruhengeri and
Gisenyi which incorporated the views of farmers in seed activities. The project has demonstrated that there
are high payoffs in using international seed centers (i.e. the WARDA experience); seed multiplication and
distribution activities, along with its training program should be scaled up under the RSSP. The following
are areas for improvement for seed activities:

Seed Multiplication:

(a) There were very few seed multiplication sites overall;
(b) Method of seed activities were different from one place to another; there is need for greater consistency
to provide the scope for replicability and learned lessons;
(c) Seed multiplication should be conducted alongside the pilot demonstration fields or at least they should
go together.




                                                      - 18 -

Seed Distribution:

(a) The certification of quality seeds need to be taken into consideration in future distribution activities, the
scope should have been broadened even at the pilot stage;
(b) It would be necessary to put in place an adequate collaborative program between seed multipliers and
the national seed service to ensure an efficient distribution of seed on a timely basis; there were delays in
making seeds available to farmers on time and quality seeds when available, was not sufficient to cover the
respective needs.
(d) Enhance the seed distribution system by establishing selling counters in proximal locations;
(e) Identify individual seed multipliers and strengthen their capacity;


4. Agricultural Technology Development and Transfer:

Beneficiaries participated in the design of adaptable technology including those for processing and
conservation and acquired a good understanding of the importance of technology in the agricultural sector.
On those basis, they were able to come up with their own income generation micro projects. Due to the
pilot nature and short duration of the project, the need is highlighted that technology development be scaled
up and replicated country-wide. The following lessons were derived from the implementation of those
activities:

(a) Highlighted areas that need to be incorporated in upcoming or future programs include techniques for
(i) appropriate land management and (ii) livestock development and maintenance;
(b) Involve traders in the livestock sector to facilitate the importation of inputs for livestock development; ;
(c) Adapted processing technologies once developed, generated significant outputs that need to be
marketed. There is a need to develop a program for advertising and market search as well as skills
development for marketing activities;

5. Agricultural Marketing Poles and Private Sector Investment:

The modernization of marketing infrastructure along with the training program for local leaders in the
management of the constructed markets is considered one of the best practices for rural market
development. The newly constructed markets, even though in only 25% of the districts, have strongly
responded to the rural population marketing needs. It has provided farmers the scope to participate fully in
the market exchange system, and enabled traders to extend their trading activities especially in agricultural
inputs and outputs. Livestock markets were particularly highlighted as key development approach to
kick-off livestock development. There is an urgent need to scale up market development across the
country. The following were considered key to the continued improvement and modernization of rural
marketing infrastructure:

(a)   As a long-term development perspective, and considering the growing population and business
development activities in Rwanda, the size of the market infrastrusture need to be increased. Constructed
markets under the project were deemed small in size overall, as well as individual trading stalls;
(b) The location of markets need to be proximal to farming communities; some market constructed under
the project were considered at long distance from farmers which suggests the need for additional markets in
some areas. This is with the view that current locations were actual sites of former markets;
(c) Unlike traders and local administrators, farmers views were not fully incorporated in plans for market
construction and as a result their needs in marketing were not fully met;
(d) Market management committees should be trained and functional before marketing activities are


                                                      - 19 -

launched; the design for training and functionality of committees were not fully adhered to.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The draft ICR from the Bank has been received and the Government and its implementing agencies are of
the opinion that information contained in the ICR represents a true picture of what took place during the
implementation of the project from the effective date to the completion of the project.     The Borrower's
comments are fully represented in our Borrower ICR which has been reflected, overall, on the Bank's ICR

This is an opportunity for the borrower to express appreciation for the efforts that the Bank's team have
put into the successful implementation of the project, and look forward to further collaboration with the
Bank especially in the context of the on-going Rural Sector Support Project.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Percent increase in the quantities of
modern farm inputs used per capita by
beneficiary farmers compared to the
baseline*:

BASELINE INFO (QTY (KG/TONS))                QUANTITIES (KG/T) & (% CHG)           QUANTITIES (KG/t) &     (% CHG)
B = Bean Seeds :        3.9                   B = 6.82              (+ 75%)         B = 10.7              (+175% )
M = Maize Seeds :        8.8                  M = 15.40             (+ 75%)         M = 60                (+580% )
U = Urea          :     2.0                   U = 3.50              (+ 75%)         U = 19.6              (+880% )
N = NPK            :    3.8                   N = 6.65              (+ 75%)         N = 29.3               (+ 670%)




2. Percent increase in the average output per
capita among beneficiary farmers compared
to the baseline:

BASELINE INFO (QTY (KG))                     QUANTITIES (KG) &      (% CHG)        QUANTITIES (KG) &      (% CHG)
B = beans         :       37                  B = 65                 (+ 75%)        B = 342               (+ 840%)
P = potato        :     387                   P = 677                (+75% )        P = 2635              (+ 580%)
M = manioc        :      390                  M = 683                (+75%)         M = 1061              (+ 172%)
BA = banana       :      361                  BA = 632                (+75%)        BA = 6897             (+ 1810%)
S = sorghum        :      27                  S =   47                (+75%)        S = 500                ( + 1750%)



* Per capita numbers in the case of farm households refer to individual beneficiary farmers who usually
represent an entire household. In other words, per capita in the case of beneficiary farmers is to be
understood as per farm household.
Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1(a) The percent increase in the number of
modern input importers compared to the
baseline:

BASELINE INFO. # IMPORTERS                   # IMPORTERS                (%CHG)     # IMPORTERS                (%CHG)
N = NPK importers          : 5                N = 10                    (+ 100% )   N = 30                     + 500%
U = Urea importers         : 4                U = 8                     (+100% )    U = 30                      + 650%
S = Seeds importers        :



1.1(b) The percent increase in the volume of
modern farm inputs imported by the private
sector compared to the baseline:

BASELINE INFO. (QTY (TONS))                  (QTY (TONS))               (%CHG)     QTY (TONS))               (%CHG)
N = NPK       :        674                    N = 1384                   (+ 100%)   N = 1927                 ( + 185% )
U = Urea      :        154                    U = 308                    (+100% )   U = 320                  ( +107% )
S = Seeds     :           0                   S = 0                       (+100%)   S = 965,617                  NA




1.2(a). Percent share of beneficiary farmers
receiving training in the use of modern farm >
inputs

BASELINE INFOR # FARMERS                     # FARMERS                   (%CHG)    # FARMERS                   (%CHG)
           0                                 18,000                      ( 90%.)   20,000                      ( 100%)




                                                            - 21 -

2.1(a). The percent increase in the quantities
marketed by beneficiary farmers per capita
compared to the baseline:


BASELINE INFO (QTY (KG))                      QUANTITIES (KG) &  (% CHG)    QUANTITIES (KG) & (% CHG)
B = beans      :      29.8                     B = 44.74         (+ 50%)     B = 174           (+ 480%)
P = potato     :      86.2                     P = 129.30        (+50%)      P = 1904          (+2108%)
M = manioc      :     66.2                     M = 99.30         (+50%)      M = 574           ( +767%)
BA = banana     :    164.0                    BA = 246            (+50%)    BA = 5813           (+3442%)
S = sorghum     :     15.3                     S = 22.95          (+50%)     S = 365            (+2286%)
Number of improved agricultural marketing     15                            15
sites

1End of project




                                                           - 22 -

View of Changes in Outcome and Output Indicators Compared to the Baseline: An Evolution of Updates
2001 and 2002 against End of Project Targets

Table a: Changes in Input Use Per Capita (Qty)
Year          Beans      Maize     Urea      NPK
              (kg)       (kg)      (tons)    (tons)
1998           3.9       8.8       2.0       3.8
2001          5.4        52.7      9         32.4
2002          10.7       60        19.6      29.3




Table b: Changes in Output Per Capita (Qty)
Year          Beans        Potato     Manioc       Banana     Sorghum
              (kg)         (kg)       (kg)         (kg)       (kg)
1998          37           387         390         361        27
2001          289.5        1714        226.1       1890.6     153
2002          347.7        2635.7      1060.7      6897.3     500



Table c: Changes in Number of Inputs Importers (Qty)
Year          NPK        Urea
              (N)        (N)
1998          5          4
2001          12         11
2002          30         30

Table d: Changes in Volume of Inputs Imported (Qty)
Year          Urea       NPK
              (tons)     (tons)
1998          674        154
2001          6460       1940
2002          1927       320



Table e: Changes in Quantities Marketed by Beneficiary Farmers
Year                Beans      Potato   Manioc        Banana      Sorghum
                    (kg)       (kg)     (kg)          (kg)        (kg)
End Target          29.8       86.2      66.2          164.1      15.3
2001                84         1017.5    106.9         1658.6     70.4
2002                174.1      1904.1    574.2         5812.8     365.1




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                       Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                         Component                                    US$ million    US$ million
Promotion of Input use and Distribution Systems                        3251.50          3528.17         108.5
Support to Local Agricultural Marketing Poles                          1663.60          1424.83          85.6
Technical Support Unit                                                  530.00           644.79         121.6

Total Baseline Cost                                                    5445.10          5597.79
  Physical Contingencies                                                  42.00
  Price Contingencies                                                   125.40
                            Total Project Costs                        5612.50          5597.79
                    Total Financing Required                           5612.50          5597.79




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              NCB-1               NS 2/            Other-3/        N.B.F.   Total Cost

1. Works                               535.90             240.00              112.50        0.00       888.40
                                      (465.60)            (232.70)            (0.00)        (0.00)    (698.30)
2. Goods                                70.00             119.20             2000.00        0.00      2189.20
                                       (70.00)            (119.20)          (1900.00)       (0.00)   (2089.20)
3. Services                              0.00             2382.50              0.00         0.00      2382.50
                                        (0.00)           (2175.20)            (0.00)        (0.00)   (2175.20)
4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              152.40        0.00       152.40
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (37.30)        (0.00)    (37.30)
5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00         0.00        0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00         0.00        0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                               605.90             2741.70            2264.90        0.00      5612.50
                                      (535.60)           (2527.10)          (1937.30)       (0.00)   (5000.00)

1/ National Competitive Bidding or IAPSO
2/ National Shopping
3/ Other: Beneficiary contribution, line of credit and input credit insurance fund




                                                        - 24 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category             NCB-1                 NS 2/            Other-3/          N.B.F.        Total Cost

   1. Works                              732.00                0.00               0.00             0.00           732.00
                                         (658.80)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (658.80)
   2. Goods                              1069.00               59.00            1280.50            0.00           2408.00
                                        (1069.00)             (59.00)          (1152.50)           (0.00)        (2280.50)
   3. Services                             0.00               992.00              0.00             0.00           992.10
                                          (0.00)              (845.80)           (0.00)            (0.00)        (845.80)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
       Total                             1801.00              1051.00           1280.50            0.00           4132.00
                                        (1727.80)             (904.80)         (1152.50)           (0.00)        (4059.30)

  1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
   2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
  contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
  costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.          CoF.        Bank         Govt.       CoF.      Bank    Govt.   CoF.
Promotion of Input use and     3.03         0.26                      3.25          0.28                 107.3  107.7
Distribution Systems
Support to Local               1.56         0.21                      1.25          0.17                 80.1    81.0
Agricultural Marketing
Poles
Technical Support Unit         0.41         0.14                      0.48          0.16                 117.1  114.3

  The higher level of expenditures reflect additional expenses occured during extension of closing date.




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Due to the LIL nature of the project, an economic analysis was not conducted at preparation.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/14/1999                7    SR. AG. ECONOMIST (TL) (1);                      S
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); FMS (1);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/02/1999                8    SR. AG. ECONOMIST (TL)                           S
                                             (1); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
                                             LAWYER (1); FMS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             PECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              02/28/2000                2    TEAM LEADER, SR.AG.EC.           S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT, (1)
              06/23/2000                5    SR. AG. ECONOMIST (TL) (1);      S               S
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              11/17/2000                6    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             YOUNG PROFESSIONAL (1);
                                             SR.FIN.MGMT.SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              05/20/2001                5    TEAM LEADER,SR.AG.ECON           U               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT,
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, FMS (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT, DISB. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFF., PROC. (1)
              10/08/2002                4    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               07/15/2003              5    LEAD SPECIALIST (1);              S    S
                                            MISSION TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)


 ICR
               12/08/03               5     LEAD SPECIALIST (1);              S    S
                                            MISSION TEAM LEADER
                                            (1); PROGRAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            ANALYST (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        431.66
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              72.00
  Supervision                          57.21                        404.35
  ICR                                      38                        40.55
  Total                                                             948.56




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide memoires, Back-to-Office reports and Project Status Reports of seven supervision missions,
January 2000 - December 2003;
2. Project quarterly progress reports January, 2000 - December 2003
3. Baseline survey and two updates , 1998, 2001 & 2002;
4. Technical note on the constraints to higher modern input adoption, 1999;
5. Technical note on the characteristics and opportunities of modern input distribution and output
marketing systems;
6. Mid-term review report, June 2002;
7. Quality at entry review report, December 1999;
8. Project Appraisal Document, July 1999;
9. Independent evaluation reports conducted by University of Butare students, 2003
10. Borrower evaluation report, January 2004;
11. Implementation completion workshop report, January 2004;
12. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) report, March 2000
13. Strategy note - Agricultural Intensification in Rwanda, World Bank 1998;
14. ARMDP procedures manual, October 1999.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

In lieu of conducting a separate beneficiary survey, the project team has opted to use the structured baseline
survey carried out early during project preparation and two subsequent updates conducted in the project
districts during years two and three of project implementation. Data that were gathered through the
baseline survey and two updates focused on farm household, transport, input distribution, and crop
marketing sectors and allowed the project team to quantify all the project performance indicators and
benchmarks. Therefore, the baseline and its updates have provided a comparative set of data that allowed
the team to compute changes with respect to individual indicators. The original baseline survey was
conducted in 1998, the two updates were conducted in 2001 and 2002 respectively. The following are key
constraints highlighted under four respective themes that guided the project design. The tables/charts
below illustrates some of the project's response to the indicative constraints vis-a-vis changes that have
been achieved during project implementation:



The Farming Sector
· Limited availability of inputs in local markets;
· Insufficient technical knowledge and deficiencies in the distribution system;
· High prices and weak purchasing power.



Table 1: Quantities of Modern Inputs Imported Monthly, 1998-2002
 Mth/Yr             Jan  Feb Mar     Apr   May      Jun     Jly     Aug      Sep     Oct     Nov      Dec
 2001              511  890  171   441     225    119      146     1,573    1,840   604      1390   776
Cum.2001           511  1401 1572  2013    2238   2357     2503    4076     5916    6520     7910   8686
2002               215  314  421   576     372    119      225     214      335     175      267    3690
Cum.2002           215  529  950   1526    1898   2017     2242    2456     2791    2966     3149   6439
2003               181  171  921   895     165    276      170     319      2036    374      1365   207
 Cum.200           181  352  1273  2168    2333   2609     2779    3098     5134    5508     6873   7080
 3
Cum = cumulative quantities
Source: BNR importers and Rwanda Revenue Authority



 Chart 1. Yearly Fertilizer Imports: 2001 - 2003

                 4,000.00

                 3,000.00
      tons                                                                   NPK
                 2,000.00                                                    DAP
                                                                             UREA
          Metric 1,000.00

                     0.00
                               1              2               3

                                   Year: 2001-2003




                                                    - 32 -

Chart 2: Comparison Between Target and Achievement on Importation of inputs

                 Target            Achievement
10000

 8000

 6000

 4000

 2000

    0
           1998        2001         2002       2003




                                     - 33 -

Table 2: Use of fertilizer and improved seeds among households: 1998-2002
              Yrs     Bean Price      Manioc Price     Maize Price      Urea    Price   NPK     Price
PROVINCE              kg     Frw/kg kg        Frw/kg kg       Frw/kg    kg      Frw/kg kg       Frw/kg

BUTARE          1998     1,8     296        0             0,7     200
                2001     2.2   150.0            150.0     0.8   150.0       0.5            1,8
                2002    11.7                              2.8   130.0       5.6    220.0   9.4     223.0
BYUMBA          1998     5,8   218,7      4,9            12,5    81,5       1,1     150    11,4     228
                2001      --      --       --      --      --      --        --              --
                2002
KIBUNGO         1998     8,2   166,3        3               0        0        0       0       0       0
                2001     1,8     250              250       0     250         0            0,3
                2002            1200                                        0,5     245       2     247
CYANGUGU        1998     3,6   164,3      3,6             0,5    96,7      10,2     153    12,2     162
                2001     1,5                                0              69,8            29,9
                2002    20,7    1100                      2,9               18      233    28,9     243
GIKONGORO       1998     1,4   264,7      3,2            26,5   136,5       1,6    131,4      3     143
                2001    10,1     190              190    27,8     190      12,2            74,2
                2002     9,3     300                      12      170       3,8     200    39,8     220
GITARAMA        1998     3,8   240,9      1,5            26,6     153       0,8     150    0,2      290
                2001     0,5                              0,6                 2            5,9
                2002     5,9     650                        6     200       5,9     237    9,8      237
KIGALI          1998     2,7   223,3      25              2,8     100       0,3     120    0,7      122
RURAL
                2001     12      120              120     5,2     120      13,5            23,1
                2002     16      650                     10,3     200      34,4     220    33,8     223
KIGALI          1998     3,6   153,3        0   153,3     0,5     100       2,2    116,7      3     120
URBAN
                2001
                2002
GISENYI         1998    .....    .....   .....    .....  .....    .....    .....           .....
                2001     8,3                            412,9               0,4           108,2
                2002                                      9,3     120       56      220    95,2     223
KIBUYE          1998    .....    .....   .....    .....  .....    .....    .....           .....
                2001     0,6     120              120     7,3     120       0,3            4,5
                2002    13,3     500                      4,1               2,6     215    5,2      247
Total           1998     3,9              5,2             8,8                 2            3,8
Average         2001     5,4   171,3            171,3    52,7   171,3         9            32,4
                2002    10,7   733,3                        6              19,6    218,3   29,3     231
%               1998     46               13             17,5               13             16,5
Farmers
who             2001     23                 0             21                19              48
declared
use of this
product
to use         2002      37      ....      ...     ... 25,9        ...     35,2      ...  53,2       ...
inputs
(*) EAF = Per capita




                                                      - 34 -

Chart 3: Changes in Average Input Use Among Beneficiary Farmers


                  70
                  60
                  50
                                                                                                                   1998
                  40
                                                                                                                   2001
                  30
      Kg/tons                                                                                                      2002
                  20
                  10
                   0
                            Beans                  Maize                 Urea               NPK

                                                   Seeds and Fertilizer


Chart 4: Price trends on the Main Inputs Imported - July 2001 ­ Sept 2003



 350
 300
 250
 200
 150
 100
  50
    0

             Jul-01  Sep-01  Nov-01  Jan-02  Mar-02  May-02  Jul-02  Sep-02  Nov-02  Jan-03  Mar-03  May-03  Jul-03  Sep-03


                                                           NPK        DAP       UREA




                                                                 - 35 -

Chart 5: Price Trends on Agro Chemicals Imported - July 2001 ­ Sept 2003



   2500
   2000
   1500
   1000
    500
       0


     7/1/01 9/1/01 11/1/01 1/1/02 3/1/02 5/1/02  7/1/02   9/1/02 11/1/02   1/1/03  3/1/03  5/1/03 7/1/03 9/1/03


                                                   Dithane       Actellic




  Table 3. Output/Input Differentials for Selected Crops Across Five Provinces


    PROVINCE              Year        Total Output        Total Input            Differential
   KIBUNGO                1998           82,929.00               1,363.66           81,565.34
                           2001          685,864.66                 450.00         685,414.66
                           2002          198,061.10                 494.30         197,566.80
 CYANGUGU                  1998            10,823.00             4,128.48               6,694.52
                           2001            51,111.82                     0.00         51,111.82
                           2002          108,252.20             33,986.70             74,265.50
 GIKONGORO                 1998            40,447.00             1,009.82             39,437.18
                           2001            83,936.31             1,919.00             82,017.31
                           2002          235,425.50             12,306.00          223,119.50
 GITARAMA                  1998            25,604.00             1,093.42             24,510.58
                           2001            72,554.38                     0.20         72,554.18
                           2002          392,543.50              7,555.90          384,987.60
 KIGALI RURAL              1998          383,828.00                 724.31         383,103.69
                           2001          260,021.41              1,440.70          258,580.71
                          2002          879,973.50              25,505.40         854,468.10


Agricultural Marketing
· Low marketed surplus;
· Inadequate means of transportation;
· Low price margins on the sale of agricultural products;
· Inadequate marketing outlets;




                                                   - 36 -

Chart 6: Changes in Average Outputs Among Beneficiary Farmers

                       8000

                       6000                                                      1998

                    KG 4000                                                      2001

                       2000                                                      2002

                          0
                             Beans   Potato    Manioc      Banana   Sorghum

                                           Selected Crops



Chart 7 Changed in Average Quantities of Crops marketed by Beneficiaries Farmers

                      700
                      600
                      500                                                       1998
  Quantities          400
                                                                                2001
                      300
                      200                                                       2002

                      100
            Marketed    0
                            Beans  Potato     Manioc     Banana    Sorghum
                                    (10kg)                (10 kg)

                                          Selected Crops




                                                   - 37 -

Table 4:
                  List of markets constructed and cost

          Province   District      Market       Total cost
  1 Gitarama         Ntongwe       Kinazi                 23,239,902
  2 Ruhengeri        Nyarutovu     Gakenke                20,986,120
  3 Umutara          Bugaragara    Matimba                33,840,670
  4 Kibuye           Budaha        Nyange                 26,667,505
  5 Cyangugu         Bugarama      Bugarama               24,262,841
  6 Gitarama         Ruhango       Ruhango                15,894,608
  7 Byumba           Kisaro        Gaseke                 27,610,259
  8 Gikongoro        Mudasomwa Gasarenda                  24,019,025
  9 Kibuye           Kiruhura      Ruhashya               24,168,423
 10 Gisenyi          Kanama        Mahoko                 20,549,481
 11 Umutara          Murambi       Kiramuruzi             25,742,784
 12 Umutara          Gabiro        Gabiro                 15,541,912
 13 Kibungo          Mirenge       Sake                   29,375,307
 14 Umutara          Rukara        Ku Gitega              18,850,578
 15 Kigali Ngali     Ngenda        Ruhuha                 48,729,690
                     Total in Frw                        379,479,105


Private Sector - Traders
· Low procurement capacity due to low capital and higher output prices;
· Inadequate transport means
· High level of taxation for imported materials including agricultural inputs;


 Chart 8: Trends in Credit Receipt by Traders

           1400
           1200
           1000
   Rfw      800
            600
      1000  400
            200
               0
               1998                2001                   2002

                                                      Avg. Credit




                                                   - 38 -

Table 5: Increased Private Sector Participation in Agricultural Marketing

          Average Q uantities of C rops Traded(1998-                                           Geographic
                                         2002)                                             a     coverage
         Bns          Pota          Sorg             Oni           Pnuts        Rice         Avg. Dist Avg Qty
 Yr   (tons)         (tons)         (tons)          (tons)         (tons)      (tons)        Km            Tons
 1998     17,8            16,6            12,5             3,0             2,4        8,5         69,3          2,3
 2001     50,4            57,9            36,2             0,4             5,4      11,3          93,5          3,7
 2002     66,0           127,7          148,0              7,5             6,9      26,3          22,5          2,1



Input Distribution Sector
· Low purchasing capacity of farmers;
· Inadequate transport means;
· Heavy taxation;
· Weak farm extension and technical support systems;
· Limited access to credit;


 Chart:9 Overall Trend in Credit Disbursement to Farmers

                                                             A m o u n t ( F r w )

  2 5 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0
  2 0 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0
  1 5 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0
  1 0 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0
    5 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0
                  -


                       02               02                                                 02               03            03

                toMarch           toJune                                                              toJune        toSept
                             April            toSeptembe...       toDece...         toMarch
                                                                                                 April          July

         January                          July             October           January




                                                                           - 39 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                                Workshop on Implementation Completion
                             of the Rwanda Agricultural and Rural Market
                                     Development Project (ARMDP)

                                    MINAGRI, December 16 -17, 2004

                                        Summary of Final Report


I.  INTRODUCTION

1. The MINAGRI/World Bank has organized a two-day workshop on the implementation completion of
    the Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project (ARMDP). The purpose of this workshop was
    to evaluate the achievements of the project using a SWOT participatory analysis (Strengths,
    weaknesses, opportunities and threats).

2. To ensure adequate focus on the project's implementation and its achievements at closing, the SWOT
    analysis took into account only strengths and weaknesses, complemented by an assessment of lessons
    learnt and the formulation of key recommendations. Every observed strength, weakness as well as
    lessons learned have been cited in this report in order of importance on a scale of "very important" to
    "least important". Through this, it is then possible to identify areas of strengths that needed to be
    reinforced or replicated, areas of weaknesses that needed to be adequately addresses in similar/future
    projects and likewise, provide a scope for lessons to be applied as appropriate in the future.

3. The workshop was represented by about 100 participants including representatives of farmers'
    associations, local banks, inputs traders and importers, NGOs, various Ministries and Government
    agencies, District heads (local government), donor agencies, the private sector and the staff and
    coordinators of Bank and other donor projects.

4. Participants worked in five sub-groups each focusing on specific themes relevant to each of the
    project's components. Group results were presented and discussed in a plenary session along with
    lessons learned and key recommendations.



II. SUMMARY OF RESULTS FROM DISCUSSION GROUPS AND PLENARY SESSION

Group 1: Access to Credit by Importers, Farmers and Farmers Associations (beneficiaries)

1.1.    Line of Credit (LOC)

1. The Project has demonstrated the following three main strengths in the implementation of the line of
credit (LOC);
(a) Tax reduction measures for importation of agricultural inputs which ensured profitability to importers;
(b) Governments' decision eliminate the free distribution of agricultural inputs;
(c) Reduced interest rate applied to LOC by local banks and improved terms of collaboration and
cooperation between local banks and importers;




                                                   - 40 -

2. The following two weaknesses were observed:
(a) The delay in information transfer to project stakeholders and beneficiaries;
(b) Importers outside of the urban Kigali were not made aware of the LOC; participants noted that the pilot
nature of the project may have been the cause of this weakness.

3. The following two important lessons were derived from the workshop:
(a) The large investment by importers and traders in the agricultural inputs sector implies that the input
trade sector can be targeted for greater profitablility and increased knowledge;
(b) Banks are now convinced that the agriculture and livestock sectors are areas for sustained investment;

4. It is recommended for future projects that:
(a) The population and future beneficiaries be informed of credit schemes before project launch;
(b) Such a mechanisms of credit accessibility, identified strengths in particular, be applied to future
projects as appropriate;
(c) The decree-law approving the removal import taxes on agricultural inputs be renewed; it is due to
expire in 2004/5.

1.2.     Small Farmer Input Credit Facility (SFICF)

1. Two strengths were identified as very important under the facility (SFICF):
(a) Accessibility of credit to farmers on a revolving basis and the proximity of institutions that implemented
the facility.
(b) Trainings of farmers on the use and management of credit.

2. Three weaknesses identified include:
(a) The relatively high interest rate on the credit;
(b) Inadequate understanding of implementation modalities of credit by staff of implementing local banks;
(c) Inadequate understanding of credit facility by staff of government agencies and projects;

3. The following lessons were derived from the implementation of the facility:
(a) Increased outputs from production due to availability of credit and modernized extension system;
(b) Greater understanding and knowledge of input use by farmers;
(c) Greater sensitization of farmers' associations to work in teams regarding the receipt and use of credit;

4. It is recommended under the SFICF that:
(a) Credit be granted at a reasonable interest rate ;
(b) Staff of local banks be adequately informed on the management of input credit facility;
(c) Monitoring of the credit allocations be enhanced;
(d) Local leaders be sensitized on the implementation and management of input credit facility;

Group 2. Extension System

2.1 Specialized local Organizations (SLO) and Lead Farmers Extension System

1. The following strengths were identified under extension activities:
(a) The pilot / demonstration activities have changed/modified the cultivation system;
(b) Production have increased substantially in project areas;
(c) Greater collaboration has been initiated between local leaders and project beneficiaries (farmers);




                                                      - 41 -

2. Weaknesses identified include:
(a) Inadequate preparation for project completion for phasing out;
(b) Insufficient scope to implement activities for which training had been conducted;
(c) Policy options conveyed by the project were not adequately explained;
(d) Inadequate consideration for environment shortfalls (protection) regarding project activities;
(e) Insufficient contact between inputs traders and farmers ;

3. Lessons derived from the implementation of extension activities include:
(a) The proximity of inputs selling counters (input shops) contributed to the increased use of inputs;
(b) The project contributed to income generation for beneficiaries and increased availability of appropriate
seeds.

2.2. Training Program (content and approach)

1. The main strengths under the project's training program include:
(a) Sufficient training that enhanced the productivity of farmers;
(b) The training curriculum covered the needs and concerns of the beneficiaries;
(c) The training of farmers by lead farmers at the village level was a plus;
(d) The curriculum and training materials were well prepared;
(e) Monitoring and follow-up of trainings were adequately undertaken;
(f) Field visits and tours of beneficiaries were very useful.

2. The only main weakness observed is the training activities was the non-consideration of gender issues in
trainings program.

3. Lessons derived under the training program include:
(a) Exploring a means by which lead farmer extensionists system can be used for other development
activities;
(b) How cooperation between local leaders and project beneficiaries can be enhanced;
(c) How farmers can be better sensitized to work with local banks and other credit institutions.

4. Specific recommendations to be addressed by the MINAGRI include:
(a) Project completion procedures must be planned and indicated to avoid surprising beneficiaries;
(b) The modified extension system need to be widely diffused;
(c) There should be a network system, a forum or body to enable farmers conduct discussions on
agricultural constraints and solutions;
(d) Seeds multiplication activities should be intensified and expanded and demonstration fields be replicated
widely;
(e) The lead farmers extension system should be adopted at the national level;
(f) Extension activities should be reinforced and integrated at different levels; this should include, in
addition to cultivation techniques, processing and conservation, marketing etc.
(g) More basic means of agricultural extension activities should be extended.



Group 3. Seed Multiplication and Distribution Activities

3.1. Seeds Multiplication Activities

1. Main strengths identified under seed multiplication and distribution activities include:


                                                      - 42 -

(a) The project worked with individuals, NGOs and Associations;
(b) The project trained farmers on seeds multiplication and used pilot fields for demonstration;
(c) The project took farmers' views into consideration;
(d) The project has initiated a sustainable activity of seed multiplication in key provinces like Ruhengeri
and Gisenyi.

2. The following weaknesses were identified:
(a) Seed multiplication activities were done in a limited number of areas by the project;
(b) Methods of seed multiplication were inconsistent, conducted differently from area to area;
(c) Follow-up of seed multiplication activities were not sufficient.

3. Two important lessons were derived:
(a) The lead farmers extension system, while very much appreciated. need better monitoring;
(b) Seed multiplication can now be conducted by individual farmers.

4. Two main recommendations were highlighted:
(a) The pilot/demonstration fields program should be put together with a seed multiplication plan;
(b) The upscaled Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP) should pick up and continue the project's activities
and integrate its strengths ;



3.2. Seed Distribution Activities

1. The following strengths were identified relevant to seed distribution activities:
(a) The project has distributed seeds for use in pilot/demonstration fields;
(b) Free distributing of seeds is no longer in effect;
(c) Seeds are now accessibility at the association level and to individual farmers;

2. The following weaknesses were identified:
(a) Seeds were not always available to farmers at times of need;
(b) The certification and quality seeds were not taken into consideration during the distribution;

3. Lesson Learned:

Seed multiplication techniques have been mastered; however, improved seeds are insufficient and often
unavailable, and those available are facing storage constraints.

4. Specific recommendations for projects currently implemented under the MINAGRI:
(a) Encourage collaboration between farmers' associations, individual conscious farmers and enhance the
scope of their activities;
(b) Enhance the distribution system of selected seed through assistance for the establishment of selling
points (comptoirs de vente);
(c) Establish an adequate program of cooperation between seed multipliers and the National Seeds Service;
(d) Review and improve the seed storage infrastructure.




                                                      - 43 -

Group 4: Agricultural Technology - Processing and Conservation

4.1      Technologies and their Extension

1. Important strengths identified under the activity include:
(a) Trained lead farmer extensionists;
(b) Modern cultivation techniques reinforced;
(c) Self design by beneficiaries of income generating micro projects;
(d) Pilot / demonstration field models;
(e) Use of organic inputs encouraged;
(f) Knowledge for the use of input credit;

2. Weaknesses include:
(a) Perpetuation of poor land management techniques, specially the mixing plants and trees;
(b) Artificial Insemination was conducted minimally - in some places
(c) Weak cattle management (in cowshed)

3. Three main lessons derived include:
(a) Farmers have acquired significant understanding of the importance of technology in the Agriculture
sector;
(b) Farmers have become accustomed to credit now have no fear of credit or of the prospect;
(c) Farmers are in a better position to buy and use inputs.

4. The following recommendations emerged relevant to agricultural inputs:
(a) There is a need of additional agricultural projects that could pick up and continue the ARMDP
activities
(b) Adequate mechanisms are needed to monitor the credit facility after project completion;
(c) Sensitize farmers better on the use of improved inputs;
(d) Greater attention needed for processing of agricultural products;
(e) Develop markets exchanges at inter-region levels.



Group 5: Agricultural Marketing Poles and Private Sector Investment

5.1.     Market Construction Activities

1. The following have been identified as important strengths relating to sites of constructed markets:
(a) The constructed markets serves as a bases for development oriented activities;
(b) The cattle markets are particularly well constructed;

2. Weaknesses identified include:
(a) Some markets are relatively too small
(b) Markets' plots are too small with no scope for extension;
(c) Some markets sites were constructed far from farmers and travel distance is significant;

3. The following lessons were derived from the above strengths and weaknesses:
(a) Market construction activities should be implemented at the country level;
(b) Adequate mechanism needed to ensure maintenance of cattle markets.




                                                     - 44 -

4. It is recommended that:
(a) Future planned construction of additional markets should focus on larger size markets;
(b) Larger plots be allocated for market construction;
(c) Construction of markets be based on a participatory designed plan and approved at the district level.

5. 2. Trainings on Market Management.

1. Main strength:

The principal strength of the project was the evident advantage of modern markets in the rural area. The
constructed markets have responded to the needs of traders in expanding their trading activities as well as
of the local districts. However, training on the management of markets have only been extended to some
traders, not on all constructed sites;

2. Other serious weaknesses identified are that:
(a) The views of farmers were not considered in the design and planning of market construction;
(b) The needs of farmers were not adequately met in the constructed markets;
(c) Not all market management committees have been trained by project closing and those trained are not
effective in conducting activities;
(d) There is mismanagement of market activities, and lack of markets committees for some constructed
sites.

3. The following main lessons were derived:
(a) There is a need for additional modern markets ;
(b) There is need to explore modalities in which farmers can increase their role and participation in market
management

4.It is recommended that:
(a) Consideration be given to farmers' views prior to project implementation;
(b) Market committees be trained and functional before launching of market activities.

III. CONCLUSION

After analyzing the results of the discussion groups and plenary sessions during the workshop, it was
concluded that in general, the objectives related to the following themes have been largely achieved:
(a) An innovative lead farmers extension system;
(b) A successful line of credit for inputs;
(c) An innovative small farmers input credit facility;
(d) The private sector is now convinced to invest in the agricultural input sub-sector;
(e) The content and approach for training of beneficiaries was effective and appreciated;
(f) Local banks are now integrated in input credit activities;
(g) The project was development focused.



IV. OVERALL WORKSHOP RECOMMENDATIONS

The following recommendations were presented during the plenary and adopted at the official closing
ceremony:




                                                      - 45 -

1. Access to Credit by Importers, Farmers and Farmers Association
(a) Disseminate more widely, information relevant to credit prior to project launching;
(b) Renew/extend expiration of timeframe for law approving the reduction/elimination of taxes on
agricultural inputs;
(c) Provide information to importers outside of urban Kigali (include other provinces about) the procedures
of credit acquisition;
(d) Provide credit at reasonable or convenient interest rate;
(e) Enhance the skills of local bank staff on procedures and management of inputs credit;
(f) Monitor credit activities regularly using specified criteria;
(g) Enhance mechanisms for financing under credit activities;
(h) Sensitize local leaders on credit activities as well as it management;
(i) Review and develop modes for credit management by recognized institutions;

2. Extension System
(a) Ensure adequate mechanisms for project completion and thereby avoid surprises on the part of
beneficiaries at project closing;
(b) Agricultural extension should include livestock activities;
(c) Provide a networking system or a forum that would enable farmers to exchange on issues and solutions
to common problems in agriculture;
(d) Intensify seed multiplication activities and increase the pilot/demonstration fields;
(e) Expand and replicate the innovate extension system developed by the project;
(f) Ensure that the agricultural lead farmers extension system is adopted at the national level;
(g) Reinforce extension activities at different levels - - cultivation techniques, processing and conservation,
marketing, etc.

3. Seeds Multiplication Activities
(a) Pursue the activities under pilot/demonstration fields and improved seeds multiplication;
(b) RSSP should continue with the implementation of ARMDP activities especially areas of strength;
(c) Reinforce the capacity of agricultural lead farmers extensionists
(d) Increase materials for seeds multiplication;
(e) Reinforce training on improved seed multiplication;
(f) Enhance credit for agricultural inputs;
(g) Explore means, with farmers associations and individual farmers the possibility of strengthening their
capacities as formal or certified lead farmers;
(h) Reinforce the distribution system for improved seeds by creating selling centers;
(i) Put in place an adequate collaborative program for seed multiplication between farmers and the
National Seeds Service (NSS);
(j) Review and reinforce seed storage infrastructure.

4. Agricultural Technology, Processing and Conservation
(a) Continue the implementation of ARMDP activities under other projects;
(b) Provide greater assistance and facilities to agricultural input importers;
(c) Increase the number of available agronomists and lead farmer extensionists and improve their work
conditions;
(d) Provide credit to farmers and ensure ease of procedures for application;
(e) Develop market systems and product exchange at the regional level;
(f) Ensure greater sensitization of farmers on the use of agricultural inputs;
(g) Pay particular attention to processing of agricultural products.




                                                      - 46 -

5. Agricultural Marketing Poles and Private Sector Investment
(a) Construct fewer but larger markets;
(b) Market design should include sufficient plots for construction;
(c) Incorporate views of stakeholders before the project implementation;
(d) Train and reinforce the market committees before the start of market activities;
(e) Construction plan of markets should be approved at the district level.

    III. List of Participants


 NAMES                    INSTITUTIONS                      POSITION                           CONTACTS (P.O.Box,
                                                                                               N°PHONE, E-MAIL)
 1.RUTAGARAMA Salehe       Virunga                    Ruhengeri                                0853 7871
2.MBARAGA Faustin         AAPM                       Mirenge                                  0842 587

3.KAMANZI Michel          District Kiruhura          Prezida w'Impuzamashyirahamwe
4.NIKUZE Espérance        Disetrie Ruhengeri         Ass.APSAR                                0845 9298
5.MUTURENDE Martin        Kahi District              Prezida w'Impuzamashyirahamwe
6.MPAGAZEHE Manassé       Kamonyi District           Lead Farmer IMPABARUTA
7.GATABAZI Zablon         Ndiza District             Impuzamashyirahamwe I.A.B.N.D.I
8.KAYUMBA Godefroid       Ville Ruhango              VATA
9.RWIGENZA Jean Paul      District Budaha            Budaha                                   0846 5623
10.RWAMBIBI Callixte      IAKI (Mutovu)              Nshili                                   Gikongoro
11.NGANGURE Laurence      R.I.R.C.                   Ruhengeri/Gisenyi                        08524951
12.KARANGWA Claude        APDR                       Cyangugu                                 08620724
13.NDIYUNZE Bertin        ITABN                      Nshili
14.KARANGWA J.M.V         MINALOC                                                             08434017
15.ER GASORE              ISAR                       Directeur                                B.P.138 Butare; 0830 6962
16.RULINDA Jean Baptiste  Budaha                     Umukangurambaga                          08465623
17.KAREMERA G.Protais     CARE                       Chef de Programme                        B.P. 550 Kigali
18.MUGISHA Faustin        MINAGRI                    Directeur (DAF)                          08302785
19.GATARE Callixte        Caritas Rwanda             Chargé des Programmes                    B.P.124 Kigali ;
                                                                                              Tél.574344/0845 3322
20.MUNYAKAZI Sadate       Banque Populaire Kinazi    Agent de Crédit                          B.P. 96 Kinazi ; 0884 2304
                                                                                              msadate1@carmail.com
21.BARATIMANA Gaspard     COGEBANQUE                 Chargé des Analyses de crédits           B.P.5230 Kigali ;
                                                                                              Tél. 86875 ; 0840 3270
22.RWABIDADI Eric         CEPEX / MINECOFIN          Chargé des Programmes Banque Mondiale et Tél.0856 2216
                                                     FIDA                                     eric.rwabidadi@minecofin.gov.
                                                                                              rw
23.KABALISA Eric          Centre IWACU               Chercheur-Formateur                      B.P.1313 Kigali ; Tél.0852
                                                                                              2391
24.MUZEYI Anicet          Banque Pop.Bugarama        Gérant                                   District Bugarama : 0879 0585
25.GASAMUNYIGA Evariste   AAPM                       Technicien Agronome                      08645293
26.NYAGATARE André        District Mirenge           Agronome de District                     PDMAR- Kigali
27.SERUSHAGO J.Baptiste   Mutura -Gisenyi            Président IADUGI
28.BATURA Vianney         District Mirenge           Animateur                                PDMAR- Kigali
29.NSENGIYUMVA Franeois   Mutura Gisenyi             Président I.A.Turikumwe
30.SEMASAKA Léonard       Cyanzarwe-Gisenyi          Gérant BP Rwerere
31.MUNYANEZA J.Claude     I.Z.M.G.M                  Agronome de l'Association                08866884
32.HABIYEZE J.D           I.Z.M.G.M                  Président w'Ishyirahamwe                 Ngenda/Kigali Ngali
33.AHISHYIZE Prosper      ABIYUNZE                   Président Intergroupement                Gitarama/ Ntongwe
34.RUHARA Déogratias      Centre IWACU               Chercheur-Formateur                      B.P.1313 Kigali ; Tél.520193
35.HARELIMANA Gaspard     TMS                        Président Intergroupement                08844828
36.ABIZEYIMANA Nuru       UBPR                       Conseillcre Technique                    Gitarama : 0842 8070
37.BAZIYAKA Aloys         UBPR                       Assistant Administratif/DAT              0865 1480
38.KALISA Eric            UBPR                       Conseiller Technique                     Kigali Ngali; 0843 1356
39.KAGWENDERI André       D/AEF Cyangugu             Directeur Agriculture Elevage.           08517326
40.KARANGWA Charles       DAEF Butare                Directeur Agri-Elev.&Forzts              08500811/ 530077 ;
                                                                                              kapchar2@yahoo.fr
41.MUKAMANZI Julie        Akarere ka Save            Umuhinzi Mworozi                         0849 2859
42.KANYEMERA Pe           Imp. Ahujumugambi          Umuhinzi



                                                     - 47 -

43.NDABARASA Bernard      District Bicumbi                Agronome                                      0834 9340/ 502317
44.SIMPUNGA Innocent      CSC Gitarama                    Chercheur-Formateur                           0853 3272 /562096
45.SEZIBEERA Thomas       Gisenyi                         Agronome/Cyanzarwe                            08587748
46.NYIRASOKO Espérance    Gisenyi                         Présidente KAIGA                              0841 4801
47.RWAMUNINGI Pierre      Gisenyi                         Umukangurambaga
48.GAHIZI Blaise          PECIPHO                         Journaliste                                   0848 6669
49.KAGOFERO Michel        UBPR                            Délégué Régional/ Gisenyi                     0852 9352
50.MUNZUYARWO Denys       COODAF                          Coordinateur                                  08527669
51.RWABUKWANDI J.de Dieu ENAS                             Service Marketings                            08421388
52.UWIMANA Etienne        ALICOMEC R.B                    Coordinateur                                  B.P.3137 Kigali ; 0851 0887/
                                                                                                        546555 ;
                                                                                                        alicomec2001@yahoo.fr
53.HAKIZIMANA Laurent     Kigali Ngali-Ngenda             Umuhinzi/ Impuzamashyirahamwe
                                                          ABAHUJUMUGAMBI
54.NKURIKIYINKA Innocent  District Kiruhura               Maire a.i                                     0868 6217
55.KAYITARE Joseph        District Kiruhura               Agronome                                      0845 2817
56.RURANGIRWA Innocent    District Kiruhura               Umuyobozi w'Impuzamashyirahamwe
                                                          ABADACOGORA
57.RUSEKERABIGWI Jacques District ITABIRE                 Umuyobozi w'Impuzamashyirahamwe
                                                          IMPABAYITA
58.NZABAMWITA Thomas      District Bugarama               Umukangurambaga (L.F.)
59.SINDAMBIWE Charles     District Ndiza                  Umukangurambaga I.A.B.N.D.I
60.SEMANYENZI Didier      ORINFOR                         Journaliste                                   0845 0227
61.MPIRIKANYI Appolinaire BP Nyamata                      Gérant                                        561022
62.BICAMWIGUGU Valens     District Nyamata                Agronome                                      561174
63.RWABUZISONI J.M.V      District ITABIRE                Umunyamabanga Impabayita
64.NSHIMYUMUKIZA Donat    Ntongwe                         Maire                                         0853 3145
65.MBONIGABA Théodose     SDA-IRIBA                       Chargé de Gestion et Autonomie                0844 9739 ; 535215
                                                                                                        iribassociation@yahoo.fr
66.KABILIGI Juvénal       ITABAN                          Membre                                        Nshili-Gikongoro
67.HATANGIMANA Thomas     World Vision/ Butare            DAP Agriculture Coordinator                   thahatangimana@yahoo.fr
                                                                                                        0840 7411
68.MIVUMBI Jean Claude    CEPEX/ MINECOFIN                Chef de service                               0852 2371 ; jclaude
                                                                                                        .mivumbi@minecofin.gov.rw
69.NDAHUNGA Jean Bosco    MINAGRI                         RSAD                                          Tél.Mobile :0868 6756
70.NTIRUSHWA Félicien     Centre IWACU                    Chercheur- Formateur                          Tél : 0886 7185
71.HAKIZIMANA Théophile   DAEF/ Cyangugu                  Agronome/District Bugarama                    0879 0535/ 0885 9606
72. MUSENGAYEZU Franeois Murenzi Supply Co                Chef de service                               B.P.57 Kigali ; Tél. 0830 0759
73.NDIYUNZE Bertin        ITABN                           Président                                     Nshili- Gikongoro
74.NIREMBERE Innocent     BP Mutura                       Agent de Crédit                               Tél : 0885 7219
75.MWIGERA J.B            PDMAR                           P.A                                           Tél. 0841 6262
76.RURANGWA Raphael       DAEF/ Ruhengeri                 Directeur                                     0830 1498 ;
                                                                                                        pgerb@rwanda1.com
77.UMUTONI Nadia          B.C.D.I.                        Chef de Bureau/Sce crédit                     0850 5453
78.KWIZERA Jean Claude    TM Auditors SARL                Assistant Auditor                             0859 8593 ;
                                                                                                        claumba@yahoo.fr
79.SAFARI Philcmon        BMR                             Directeur des marchés monétaires              0830 2256 ;
                                                                                                        saphilemo@yahoo.fr
80.TWAHIRWA Franeoise     PDCRE                           DAF                                           0841 3489.
                                                                                                        fafatwa@hotmail.com
81.KARANGWA Alex          CEPEX                           Staff                                         0850 2135
82.CYUBAHIRO Louis        CEPEX                           Staff                                         0845 4362;
                                                                                                        cublewis@yahoo.fr
83.BUCAKARA David         MINAGRI                         Directeur de la planification & statistiques  0886 0855
                                                          agricoles
84.KAYITAYIRE Renée       RDO                             Program Officer                               0884 5988
85.NGWIJE Pascal          MINAGRI                         Cadre a la Planification                      0853 2811
86.NSANZIMANA Fidcle      BP Nshili                       Gérant                                        0862 5124
87.NKUSI GISANABAGABO     UBPR                            Conseiller Technique Régional                 0863 8969
88.RUDACOGORA Jérome      UBPR                            Conseiller Technique Régional                 0865 0805
89.MUKANTABANA Patricie   BP Murehe                       Gérante                                       0845 8216
90.BAGANINTWALI J.B       SOCOGEC Save                    Directeur                                     0830 5049
91.MUKARUGWIZA Médiatrice CRS / Catholic Relief Services  Agro Enterprise Coordinator                   0853 0301; 82126
                                                                                                        mediatricem@crs.org.rw
92.KAMANA Théophile       Ass. ABUNGANIRANA               Conseiller (ventes des intrants agricoles)    0883 5289/ Ruhengeri




                                                          - 48 -

93.NTIRUGIRISONI Samuel Collectif IMPA.BO.BU    Président de l' IMPA.BO.BU    Tél.537 152
94.N.NSHIMIYIMANA Ester AMIABU                  Président de l'AMIABU         Tél.537 154
95.GATWAZA P.Claver     MINAGRI                 Directeur de l'Agriculture    0863 6221
96.UWIMANA Innocent     MINAGRI/SNS             Directeur                     0830 2301 ;
                                                                              nss@rwanda1.com
97.GATORANO F.Xavier    Impuzamashyirahamwe     Président




                                                - 49 -

Additional Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's Completion Report


1.       Introduction

The Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project (ARMDP) was funded by a World Bank credit to
the Government of Rwanda under an agreement signed on the 16th July 1999. The project was a three-year
LIL (Learning and Innovation Loan) which was scheduled to close on 30th June 2003 but was extended to
December 31st 2003 at the request of Government of Rwanda to enable completion of the activities which
were still pending. The purpose of the project was to study and test strategies that were to be used to
implement the relevant agricultural and rural development programs in a flexible manner so that
methodologies can be adjusted to suit needs of the beneficiaries and ensure that the planned outputs are
achieved.

2.       The Documents used to prepare the Government ICR

In preparation of the ICR the following documents were used:
(a) The project document;
(b) Implementation manuals;
(c) Supervision Aide Mémoires;
(d) Quarterly/Annual reports and activity reports;
(e) Interviews of persons, beneficiaries, implementing partners and field visits.

3.       Objectives of the Government ICR

The purpose of the Government ICR was to:
(a) Assess the extent to which the project has achieved its development objectives and outputs as set out on
the project documents, as well as any other significant outcomes and impacts;
(b) Review the prospects for sustainability of the project activities;
(c) Performance of the Bank and Government, including compliance with relevant Bank safeguards and
business policies;
(d) Provide data and analysis to substantiate the above assessments.

4. Implementation Completion Results by Component and Activities

The results of the project implementation is presented below by activities within each component as
follows: (i) objectives, (ii) strategy used to achieve objectives; (iii) outputs; (iv) impact on targeted
beneficiaries; (v) problems encountered if any; (vi) comments and recommendations; and (vii) lessons
learned.

Component 1. Promotion of input use and distribution system.
The objectives of this component were to sustainably raise the supply of modern farm inputs, i.e.,
fertilizers, improved seeds, agrochemicals, and livestock supplies; and to stimulate demand for and
facilitate access by farmers to these inputs. Activities under this component include (i) Line of Credit
(LOC); (ii) Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF); (iii) Small Farmer Input Credit Facility (SFICF);(iv)
Advisory Services for the Adoption of Modern Inputs and Access to Credit; and (v) Multiplication and
Distribution of Improved Seeds.




                                                    - 50 -

4.1. Line of Credit (LOC)

a. Objectives:

The line of credit was to facilitate access to capital for modern input imports,
avail the necessary resources and incentives to commercial banks to extend sales credit to agricultural input
importers, and avail the necessary resources to a sufficiently large number of importers and thus promote
competition in the sector thus control the prices;

b. Strategy used to achieve objectives:

(a) Government stopped the importation of fertilizers for free distribution into country (subsidized
fertilizer)
(b) It suspended import duties on imported agricultural inputs from 2000 to 2005;
(c) Government provided through a World Bank loan - a line of Credit which was to be used to reimburse
Implementing Commercial Banks that would give credit to agricultural input importers;
(d) Government and BNR agreed on a reduced interest rate for the funds given under the line of credit

c. Output as a result of use of line of credit

The number of importers of agricultural inputs increased from 5 (baseline) to over 30 by the end of the
project; Volumes of agricultural inputs imported increased over the project life. The targets set for the
importation of agricultural inputs were over exceeded, and this could be clearly be a result of the efforts put
in place by government to attract the private importers, the banks and create an enabling environment to do
good competitive business which include:
(a) Removal of importation of free distribution fertilizers;
(b) Removal of import duties as a strategy to attract private importers;
(c) Putting a line of credit in BNR to reimburse Commercial banks that would give credit to importers;
(d) Reduction of interest rates on the credit for importation of agricultural inputs;
(e) Advisory services for the adoption of modern inputs and access to credit for the farmers.

d. Impact

(a) Increase in private importers of agricultural inputs from 5 in 1998 to over 30 by the end of the project;
(b) Increase in volumes of importation of agricultural inputs into the country;
(c) Stabilization of agricultural input prices;
(d) As a result of the promotion of input use and distribution system there has been significant increase in
the following aspects: i) in input trade in the country; ii) increase use of improved seeds and fertilizers
among farm households; iii) increase in yields among the farmers; iv) increase in marketed produce by the
farmers and; v) increase in production by the farmers.

e. Lessons learnt

This project has shown that it is possible to create demand for use of modern agricultural inputs through
training farmers on economic advantages of modern agricultural input use.

f. Comment of sustainability




                                                      - 51 -

(a) The private traders and the banks have demonstrated that the importation of fertilizer is a credit worthy
and profitable business that both parties are willing to invest into e.g. in 2002 only 650 MT of inputs were
imported using the line of credit but the importers imported inputs totalling to over 6439 MT through credit
outside the line of credit and their personal funding.

(b) As a result of increased demand stemming from sensitizing farmers in the use of modern inputs and
access to credit, importers are willing to engage in importation of agricultural inputs and banks are willing
to extend credit to importers.

g. Recommendation

Farmer training program should be strengthened and extended to all parts of the country so that demand for
utilization of agricultural inputs is increased and sustained, and this will result into increased income to the
beneficiaries and thus increasing their standard of living.

4.2. Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF)

a. Problems encountered in the implementation of this activity

This facility was planned for reimbursement of loans granted by traders or banks to farmers in case of
natural calamities. As a result of the line of credit which would avail funds to importers to borrow from
commercial banks on a low interest rate, those that developed the project believed that this would be an
incentive to the importers to give farmer input credit. However, the importers after realizing that they had
to provide full collateral as any other loan were not willing to give unsecured input credit to farmers
associations for fear of loosing their assets in the event that they were not repaid. There was a risk that in
case the farmers realized that some payments had been done towards the credit they had defaulted they
would never bother to pay. There was no mechanism to assess the extent of damage to farmers activity in
case of natural calamities.

b. Recommendation

The funds under this component can be used by the following facilities

1. The Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF) can be a good system to safeguard those traders and banks
that give agricultural inputs on credit to farmers, but it is recommended that these funds could be managed
by a competent institution like an insurance firm. The lending private trader or bank would be the one to
take insurance using this facility (not exceeding two times) for the amount that they intend to lend to the
farmers.

2. Since Bank Populaire (BP) has been given a grant through which will help in the establishment of a
relationship between BP and the farmers, and since the bank is allowed to set a commercial interest rate, it
is recommended that BP manage those funds like their own funds and prudently enough so that there is no
need to safe guard them from risky loans.

4.3. Small farmer Input Credit Facility SFICF (revolving fund)

a. Objective

1. At the conception of the project the purpose of this facility was to establishment of a Small Farmers


                                                     - 52 -

Input Credit facility (SFICF) to promote farmer cooperative lending activities for poor farmers and farmers
groups, especially those in remote areas who may not be able to have access to bank lending or sales credit
by traders. This component provided grants to these poor farmers through their cooperatives through the
establishment of revolving credit funds to finance the acquisition of modern farm inputs However this
approach was modified to create a facility that would be available to farmers and farmers cooperatives that
would have viable project that could be financed through Bank Populaire.

2. The objective of this facility was to avail funds to farmers who would have benefited from the training
program of the project and did not have capacity to purchase agricultural inputs. In this case these farmers
and farmers association would apply for credit from their banks.

b. Strategy of the Government

(a) Developed a Memorandum of Understanding with Bank Populaire to give credit to farmers who applied
and qualified for it;
(b) Encourage meetings and interactions between farmers and bank staff so as to remove the mistrust
between the two;
(c) The project would train the farmers and farmers association on credit preparation credit application,
credit management and repayment;
(d) Support the preparation of project that are to be submitted to the banks (correction and guidance);
(e) Liaison between the borrowers and the bank on credit requests that have been submitted to the bank,
especially reasons for acceptance or nonacceptance so that further guidance can be given to farmers on
their application.

c. Role of the Banks

(a) Timely evaluation of the project submitted to the banks;
(b) Evaluation of the collaterals demanded by the banks on time;
(c) Timely approval or rejection and communication to the applicants;
(d) Sole responsibility to approve or reject an application.

d. Outputs

As a result of the efforts of all the parties involved a total of Frw 241,309,256 was disbursed, Frw
125,741,141 and 11,538,358 interest repaid with only Frw 23,739,875 representing only 20.05% as
delayed. Since the beginning of this program of training farmers using the farmer lead extension system,
there has been a significant increase of production as a result of a combination of factors namely: Better
agronomical practices
Improvement in the availability and utilization of modern agricultural inputs, access to credit ; Training
through fertilizer utilization demonstration

e. Comments on credit disbursement and repayment

(a) There has been a steady increase in disbursement of credit since this activity was started;
(b) The level of repayment is reasonable good;
(c) The level of delayed repayment is below the national level of defaulting which stands now at about 30%
of all the credit disbursed (remarks by the Governor - BNR);
(d) There is a steady increase in the number of farmers and farmers Associations receiving credit. With
more extension programs going on country wide it is clear that more credit will be availed to farmers and


                                                     - 53 -

farmers associations which will create increased demand for modern agricultural inputs.

f. Reasons which hinder farmers from accessing credit from banks

The main finding of this project is that the main reason that prevents farmers from accessing credit is lack
of:
(a) knowledge in the advantages in the use of credit;
(b) demand for credit;
(c) knowledge in the management of credit;
(d) knowledge on preparation of credit application;
(e) skills to profitably implement their farming activities.

g. Recommendations

1. Training farmers and farmers associations is the main tool which can help farmers access credit and
utilize it profitably and thus enable them to repay their loans. It is therefore recommended that training
programs be expanded country wide from the 1.2% homesteads served by the project and target the whole
country in the next 4 to 5 years.

2. The approach recommended is the use of lead farmers to train their fellow farmers and through group
discussions, guided by training materials prepared by the project or from other sources as well as
demonstrating the use of modern agricultural inputs and better agronomical practices. These
demonstrations should be small but frequent and done on farmer's fields

3. The lead farmers can be organized and trained by extension partners like NGOs, churches, consultants
and trained for a shorter time on specific topics which help them to understand market and profit oriented
farming practices. The trainers should always prepare and leave training materials to lead farmers to help
them while training their fellow farmers. Programs to support the installation of demonstration plots
should always be provided for where they are applicable.

4. Sensitization programs involving Bank staff should be developed to increase access of credit to farmers
and emphasized on a more regular bases. Meetings between the bank staff and farmers and farmers
associations should be organized on regular basis. Such activities will bring the bank closer and to the
people in terms of farmers understanding the credit conditions of the banks.

5. Improving the understanding of the workings of the bank and greater knowledge in the preparation of
profitable projects will increase the number of farmers acquiring credit and the number of defaulters will
reduce. This will bring confidence to both the bank and the borrowers especially the farmers.

6. For the success of this program, the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources must intensify
monitoring of these programs and projects implementation by the farmers and also evaluate if the banks are
not hindering the success of this activity, e.g. by delaying the approval of credit applications and not
explaining to the applicants the reasons why these delays have taken place.

7. The Ministry should develop a uniform credit package to farmers' country wide so that all projects
speak a uniform language when it comes to the credit facilities in the Ministry. At times beneficiaries have
become confused indicating that one facility is better than the other. If possible all farming programs of
credit should be of the same modalities, be that they are from which Ministry or which organizations.




                                                     - 54 -

8. All projects and programs should include a component which will encourage farmers to start saving and
credit programs in their associations so that banks will find it easy to work with them.

h. Supervision methodology of SFICF credit disbursement and repayment

1. MINAGRI has now a revolving fund in all BP branches in the country, the project which was
supervising this facility has ended. It is therefore recommended that since there are several MINAGRI
projects operating in different parts of the country, there should be a system that will designate provincial
personnel to these projects for supervising these funds so that these projects are given a role of supporting
the farmers in acquiring modern agricultural inputs. This will not burden the other program since all have
some credit facility that they are also implementing and mainly through BP. This supervision will ensure
sustainability of access to credit by farmers.

2. Considering RSSP and Cash Crop Project in relation to the existing methodology on SFICF credit
disbursement and repayment: The Rural Sector Support Project could support farmers in Provinces where
they are rehabilitating marshlands for the purpose of acquiring credit for agricultural inputs to use in
growing rice and use in other crops.

3. The Cash Crop Project could support farmers in those areas that they are mainly operating in so that
farmers can access those funds for acquiring credit for purchasing agricultural inputs for those crops the
project is specializing in and other crops, etc.

4.4. Advisory services for the adoption of modern inputs and access to credit

a. Objectives

Training and demonstration activities were used to raise farmers technical know-how about usage of
modern agricultural inputs, access and management of credit. This training would reduce repayment risks
and sustain access to credit; this would in turn increase farmer's access to modern inputs, increase in
productivity, profitability, encourage adoption and improve their standard of living.

b. Strategy

The strategy used involved many activities being identified before the project signed contracts with the
SLO's and developed programs with field staff:
(a) identification of farmers training needs;
(b) preparation of training materials;
(c) training of trainers to train lead farmers;
(d) training lead farmers using specialized local organizations (partners) and MINAGRI extension staff in
some districts;
(e) training of farmers using the lead farmers that have been trained (for number of beneficiaries;
(f) training members of farmers association management committees in recommended association
management techniques;
(g) training private traders in business management and assisting them to organize their enterprises, and
who, in turn helped them apply for credit from bank populaire using their businesses and stocks as
collateral. This attracted traders into dealing in agricultural input trading, produce marketing and
agricultural produce processing;
(h) implementation of demonstration plots on farmers gardens;
(i) assisting traders in investment into agro related businesses- input marketing, produce marketing and


                                                      - 55 -

processing, through training them in business management and organization, records keeping and
preparation of credit application and management;
(j) filling farmer's technical data sheet helped farmers keep records and be able to evaluate their progress as
a result of use of modern agricultural inputs in combination with the technical knowledge they have
acquired through the training in the topics selected.

c. Outputs

1. Farmers training materials (14 booklets on different topics) were prepared, printed and distributed to
lead farmers during the training exercise by the project as shown below,

2. A total of 1,242 lead farmers, 1,109 farmers association management committees, 400 private traders
and 22,306 have benefited from the training program. About 22,843 homesteads have been trained using
lead farmers. Even these farmers that have been trained are training other farmers on what they have been
trained and from their improved agricultural practices. The local leaders have been instrumental in
supporting developmental activities like:
(a) Increased use of modern agricultural inputs;
(b) Increased agricultural productivity;
(c) Increased income from agricultural activities;
(d) Increased effective demand for modern agricultural inputs;
(e) Increased supply and availability of modern agricultural inputs;
(f) Increased access to agricultural credit especially from Bank Populaire;
(g) Better management and repayment of credit.

Generally there has been improvement in capacity of farmers to increase their income and thus better
standards of living

d. Sustainability (proposal)

1. Secondary school, Universities and Institutions of Higher Learning have a big population of people who
could be targeted by the MINAGRI for training in agricultural extension services if anything to contribute
to the economic well being of their families through assisting their homes in practicing better agricultural
methods. In most cases students from such institutions have not been contributing any technology or
practices to their parents' agricultural activities. It is recommended that education syllabi should include
studies about practical agricultural extension at all levels.

2. In the next few years most of these student will be the rural population which will be due to proper
orientation while they were in schools and practicing agriculture as there fore parents did, this will not
change their income nor that of the country. In some cases these students have been on long holidays and
have acquired no capacity to assist their parents. It is sad that this resource is not exploited when for
example there is one or two students from every ¨UMURENGE¨ in this country or one student from every
twenty three homesteads in this country. In fact to make this approach more integrated in our educational
system this approach should be developed for all educational levels. Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
Resources should strive to influence the Ministry of Education to consider introduction of agricultural
extension syllabus at all levels in our Educational system in secondary schools and other institutions of
higher learning.

3. It would be important therefore for MINAGRI to initiates and carry out a study of this program and
initiate a discussion with the Ministry of Education for the purpose of developing agricultural extension


                                                      - 56 -

curriculum for students in all levels in schools. This curriculum should be leading students to contribute to
their parents' agricultural activities in:
(a) use of modern agricultural inputs;
(b) preparation of credit applications;
(c) agricultural business plans and cash flows so that they develop the practice doing their farming
activities on program;
(d) train their people in better agricultural practices ­ agro forestry, crop rotation, contour planting, soil
conservation, preparation and use of organic manure, post harvest management and marketing techniques,
etc.

e. Recommendations

1. Expansion of the Farmer Led Extension System (FLES) in all dimensions ­ in geographical coverage
and depth of the understanding of farming technology

2. Ensure a sustainable support to training of lead farmers in collaboration with other developmental
organizations like NGOs; churches, schools, Consultants and projects

3. Target existing farmers' organizations for training and where need be encourage and support the
formation of new associations for the purpose of better management and organization of training programs

4. Influencing the Ministry of Education to include subjects that can contribute to student's capacity to
assist their parent's ability to improve their agricultural practices and preparation of credit applications,
through courses like agricultural extension, small project preparation for credit acquisition.
5. MINAGRI should concentrate on designing of agricultural policy and strategy and making sure that it is
enforced, preparation of technical packages for use by the different extension agents, monitoring and
coordinate extension services for these organizations, development of quality seeds which are high yielding,
resistant to disease and if possible for specific areas of Rwanda.

4.5. Multiplication and distribution of improved seeds

a. Objective

The objective of this activity was to in collaboration with the National Seed Services (NSS) engage and
give capacity to farmers association in seed multiplication and seed distribution. With the Extension
program the project was implementing, using the farmer lead extension system, it was foreseen that this
could increase demand for improved seeds. It was therefore planned that in order obtain enough quantities
of seed required, there would be need to use farmers associations for multiplication and marketing.

b. Strategy

(a) Identification of improved seed needs;
(b) Identification of existing seed multipliers and those potential associations;
(c) Development and implementation of a program to train those selected associations in seed multiplication
and marketing;
(d) Support associations in acquisition of basic seeds and fertilizers to start seed multiplication. The
resources so provided would be used by the association as a revolving fund in seed multiplication and
marketing;
(e) Sensitizing traders and seed multipliers in the special seed packaging, quantity and labelling of the NSS


                                                      - 57 -

purposely for quality control. This would assist NSS in ensuring that their products are protected from
adulteration at the same time improve on quality guarantee;
(f) Support the NSS to monitor and supervise seed multiplication activities for purpose of quality control
and certification of the right quality seeds;
(g) Create demand for improved seeds through training and demonstrations;
(h) Support the National Seed Service in Publicity and marketing of improved seeds;
(i) For the rice crop, and in particular that Government has a program to improve the production of rice to
make the country self sufficient and have a surplus for export. The project supported the introduction of
several rice lines from WARDA for selection to those well adapted to our climatic conditions. Those
varieties can therefore be introduced to our farmers for multiplication and commercial farming. This is in
view that for the last decade no new varieties had been introduced due to the break down of research, the
seeds had been mixed and thus quality of rice had been lost. The introduction of variety selection would be
done through the participatory method and this would enhance the introduction of the adapted varieties to
the farmers as they would have been participating in its selection;
(j) Creating capacity of specialized local organizations to train farmers organizations in seed multiplication
and distribution.

c. Outputs

(a) Overall, well organized and trained farmers organizations in rice seed multiplication and marketing;
(b) Increase in production of improved seeds;
(c) Increase availability of improved seeds;
(d) Improved marketing system of improved seeds;
(e) Increased productivity by farmers due to better agricultural farming practices and availability of quality
seeds;
(f) As a result of improved packaging farmers have confidence in the quality of the seeds they purchase
than before, as they are clearly market and in different quantities that they can buy sealed, thus reducing the
chances of adulteration;
(g) Traders dealing in marketing of other agricultural inputs other than seeds have been attracted to trade
also in improved seeds thus making it even easier for the distribution of seeds.

d. Recommendations

1. Organize more farmers' organization to get involved or take seed multiplication as a business county
wide so that the needs of improved seeds can be satisfied

2. Support capacity building for the National Seed Service so that the institution can effectively monitor
seed multiplication for the purpose of quality control and certification. This will ensure the availability of
high quality seeds to farmers resulting into increased demand for seeds, increased income for seed
multipliers thus sustainable production and marketing and this will result to increased income for the
farmer due to increased productivity

3. With enough capacity of farmers' organizations (private seed multipliers) to multiply enough improved
seeds, the National Seed Service can relinquish the role of seed multiplication and concentrate on
registration monitoring and certification, this will reduce the conflict of interest that could result of the NSS
producing seed and at the same time doing certification on its own multiplied seeds.

Component 2. Support to local agricultural marketing system




                                                      - 58 -

To encourage farmers to enter produce market exchange system to improve the performance of local
markets in the rural areas through the following activities. Activities under this component include: (i)
Crop conservation, processing and marketing technologies; (ii) Strengthening of Rural Marketing
Agricultural Marketing Poles;

4.6. Crop conservation, processing and marketing technologies

a. Objectives

(a) To maintain quality of the farmers produce in order to assist farmers find the best markets possible or
enable farmers to be able to market their produce when the market prices are their peak so as to maximize
their profits, for example packaging for produce which adds value and maintains quality;
(b) For the purpose of enabling farmers compete for the best markets without fear that their produce will
loose quality if it stays any longer thus loose better price forcing the farmer to sell their produce just soon
after harvest when normally the prices are at their lowest for example, coolers for milk and cold storage for
fresh fish;
(c) To assist farmers acquire processing facilities for their produce so that they can add value to them or
have longer shelf life for their produce thus earn better income for example grinding grains for marketing
purposes and processing of fruits.;
(d) Work with Research and Development institutions and organization to develop, test and disseminate
adapted agricultural produce conservation and processing technologies to farmers and farmers associations.

b. Strategy

(a) Developed a program with Kigali Institute of Science and Technology to develop, test and disseminate
adopted technologies;
(b)Organized farmers association to participate in processing their produce so that they can easily get
markets and thus stimulate increase production;
(c) Introduce small processing machines which are affordable to farmers associations and traders with
small capital, so that after demonstration and adoption, farmers associations and interested private
investors can engage in process farmers produce .

c. Observations

(a) The main objective of this activity was to develop conservation, processing and marketing technology,
but due to the lack of Research and Development Institution, the only one, KIST did not succeed in
introducing any new technology;
(b) There are a number of small scale artisans who have some knowledge of how to maintain and repair
some machinery but are not qualified to participate in developing and disseminating of any type of
technologies. The project should find a way of organizing these artisans for training to improve their skills,
so that they attain the knowledge to maintain, repair and fabricate spares and simple tools for the existing
machinery and machines which are rendered useless due to the lack of spare parts;
(c) During the implementation of this project, it was evident that there was need for introduction of new
technologies, but from examining the technologies available, the biggest problem is with the repair,
maintenance and fabrication of small parts so that the technologies available can be operational to their
capacities;
(d) There is also need to train the users of the existing technologies to improve their capacities to maintain,
and repair the existing technologies thus increasing their life span and also in reduce the operational costs.




                                                     - 59 -

d. Outputs

(a) In collaboration with CSC, introduced a TOFU making machine and a sunflower oil extraction
machines to farmers associations, this was intended to attracted an increase in production of Soya beans
and Sunflower production in the district. This resulted in adding value to the produce by increasing their
market competitively thus increasing farmer's income. Increase in farmer's income enables them to utilize
more modern inputs as the results from increased productivity are easily tangible;

(b) Introduction of a one pass Small Rice Milling Machine to rice growers associations was aimed at
availing affordable technologies, so that they can participate in processing thus adding value to their
produce.    This reduced the number of middle men thus increasing earnings for farmers and their
association;

(c) Introduction of Hermetic silos and Grain safes and trained farmers and prospective users so that the
quality of the farmers harvest is improved through proper storage. The advantage of these silos and grain
safe is that they do not need any chemicals to control insects which causes big loses once they attack the
produce. It is estimated that almost 30% of the farmers harvest is lost due to poor post harvest handling
which includes storage.

e. Recommendations

1. There is need to create capacity in machinery maintenance and repair;
2. There is need to organize and train artisans to improve their skill in maintenance and repair of the
machines and machinery in the country;
3. Train artisans to produce fabrications which can be used to replace small parts on machines and
machinery;
4. Train artisans in credit applications so that they can have access to credit for purposes of financing their
operations;
5. Support Research and Development institutions in the development of new technologies suitable to our
requirement;.
6. There is need to organize women associations to assist in the transfer of technology from Research and
Development Institutions.

4.7. Strengthening of Rural Marketing Agricultural Marketing Poles

a. Objectives - Infrastructure improvement

The improvement of basic marketing infrastructure, which would (i) create the incentives for
supplementary investment in storage and other marketing infrastructure and equipment by private traders.
The improved market infrastructure would (ii) also assist the farmers in improving the quality of their
produce while marketing their produce and being protected from direct sunshine and rain and without fear
of returning home their produce because of not being sold on a particular day by storing them at the market
in their stalls.  (iii) Also train farmers in marketing techniques for their produce (this activity was
accomplished under the training and extension program), (iv) train livestock keepers in good animal
husbandry practices in order to increase the value of their animals and reduce costs of production thus
increasing their income.

b. Strategy




                                                     - 60 -

1. Identification of market sites: In the identification of market site to be improved the following
conditions were suppose to be guiding factors:

(a) Be a major trading zone or has clear potential to become one;
(b) Demonstrated capacity of beneficiaries to participate in infrastructure investment;
(c) Guarantee that improved market site would be open on a daily basis.

2. In this regard all Provincial administration heads were requested to list four markets based on the
criteria's indicated above for the markets they prefer to be constructed in order of their preference.

3. A team of Project staff visited most of the sites and discussed with the local leaders on which of the
markets would better suit the conditions.

4. At the level of the District the project recruited a consultant who would study with the help of the
district leaders of the design of the market. This design was approved by the District leaders before the
project would recruit a contract through the Nationals Tender Board, to construct the market.

5. The construction of the market was supervised by the Engineer who designed the market.

6. On regular basis a progress reports from the supervising Engineer was to be sent to the project
Coordinator.

A total of 15 markets were constructed among which three were livestock markets and the rest crop
markets.

c. Observations -

1. Design of the market: Though the procedures prescribed consultation with the local leadership on the
design of the market within the budget provided, it was realized that there was need to widen the
consultations further so that the beneficiaries get the feel of what was being done for them. This means that
at least two meetings should have been held with market traders so that a program of market is discussed
with them and reflected in the design. This would maybe have increased the beneficiaries contributions to
the construction of the markets.

2. Contribution of beneficiaries: Though beneficiaries were expected to contribute towards the cost of
construction of markets there was no willingness from the most of the local authorities. This could be
attributed to failure to mobilize the beneficiaries by the local authorities of the beneficiaries so that the
contribute their part. Most of the contribution was supposed to be in kind like building stones, sand, poles
and labor so it was easy to be achieve if there was willingness on the part of the leadership.

d. Outputs

(a) Construction of 12 crop markets and 3 livestock markets;
(b) Training farmers in marketing techniques, this activity was implemented under the training and
extension program which was done by the Specialized Local Organizations (SLO) and Ministry extension
staff who were operating in other districts.

e. Recommendations




                                                      - 61 -

1. In the same light of assisting farmers to improve quality and security of their crops at the marketing
points, it is recommended that more market sites are improved upon especially on the basic infrastructures
like toilets, abattoirs, water trapping form the roof tops and building some stores where farmers can keep
no perishable surplus not sold for the next market.

2. After now discussing with beneficiaries during the process of construction, there has now come up a
strong need to build a concrete floor covering the market area and be covered with iron sheets so that
farmers can sell their produce under shade from sunshine and rain.

3. It is also recommended that a storage facility be added to the market infrastructure of storage of surplus
produce to reduce transport costs which may result to farmers selling off their produce at a give away price
to escape the burden of taking them back home.

4. Working with the local committees, modalities to increase the frequency of opening the markets on a
daily basis should be put in place. Such a facility of great importance to the farmers where are the main
outlets of their produce should be let to operate on a daily basis.

5. The management of the market sites should be left to the Market management Committees which are
elected by those who use the markets. This will ensure better maintenance of the markets. The district
authorities may continue with the collection of taxes and market dues.




                                                     - 62 -

- 63 -

