Report No. PID7861
Project Name                     Rwanda-Agricultural and Rural Market (+)
Development
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       RWPE58038
Borrower                         Government of Rwanda
Implementing agency              Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources,
and Forestry
Date of this PID                 June 8, 1999
Project appraisal date           April 20, 1999
VP Approval date:                June 28, 1999
Country and Sector Background
Rwanda's ethnic conflict between the majority Hutus and minority Tutsi
culminated in a genocide and civil war in 1994, resulting to a loss of up to
800,000 lives, mainly Tutsis and moderate Hutus. About 3.8 million people
were displaced, of which about 2 million, including the government officials
and members of the defeated army and militia, who masterminded the genocide,
fled to refugee camps in the DRC and Tanzania. In addition, about 800,000
old case-load refugees returned to Rwanda from neighboring countries.      The
genocide and civil war damaged social and economic infrastructure, and
economic activity declined by about 50 percent. However, the conflict in
Rwanda was exceptional in its depth of destruction of human capital and the
damage to social capital and institutions.
In July 1994, a Government of National Unity was sworn into office, formed
under the framework of the Arusha Accord, a power-sharing agreement signed in
August 1993 as a transition arrangement to an elected government. The Accord
provided for the participation of the major political parties in the country
in the government, ensuring the representation of all major political and
ethinic groups in the cabinet and the National Assembly, the two most
powerful institutions envisaged by the Accord. The Government put emphasis
on establishing peace and security, promoting national reconciliation,
encouraging the return of all refugees, resettling displaced persons and
returned refugees, assisting victims of genocide, bringing to justice the
perpetrators of the genocide, and reviving and stabilizing the economy.
The combination of rapid population growth, deteriorating soil fertility and
limited availability of agricultural land has resulted in the following set
of problems in Rwanda's agricultural sector: (a) increasing labor intensity
and declining labor productivity; (b) strong subsistence orientation,
reinforced by weak commodity and labor markets; (c) pressure on local off-
farm employment and wages; and (d) declining incomes and a deteriorating food
security situation. These problems reinforce each other as limited market
orientation reduces the incentives for technology innovation which is
necessary to raise labor productivity and incomes. The components of the
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) will address these issues by: (i)



implementing an efficient input promotion program which would facilitate the
import and distribution of fertilizers and seeds thus leading to a higher
rate of marketing of input (fertilizer & seeds) use; (ii) providing improved
market infrastructure and facilities to strengthen the marketing and
intensification of agricultural products and to create incentives for
developing agricultural trade.
Project Objectives
The project's main objective is to contribute to the revitalization of
Rwanda's agricultural and rural economy by successfully identifying policies
and institutional mechanisms: (a) to promote efficient, private-sector
based, local agricultural input distribution and output marketing systems in
order (b) to raise modern input use among small-holder farmers. Its
subsidiary objectives are to test alternative approaches to:
encourage the emergence of a sustainable fertilizer import and distribution
system;
provide technical advisory services to small-holder farmers on the use of
modern inputs;
facilitate access by these farmers to credit for modern inputs;
encourage investments by private traders in marketing services in rural
areas.
Project Description
The proposed project would have the following three main components:
Promotion of input use and distribution systems. The specific objectives of
this component are: (i) to sustainably raise the supply of modern inputs,
primarily fertilizers and seeds; and (ii) to stimulate demand and facilitate
access by farmers to these inputs. Most farmers in Rwanda lack the resources
to buy modern inputs such as fertilizer and improved seeds in cash when it is
needed. Raising the level of input use fast enough and speeding up
intensification therefore require institutional mechanisms that ensure
sustained access to credit for modern inputs. The project seeks to achieve
this through the following set of activities:
farmer access to seasonal credit for modern inputs through: (i) a line of
credit to private importers of fertilizers that would provide to them the
necessary resources and incentives to extend sales credit to farmers. The
line of credit would also facilitate access to capital for fertilizer imports
to a sufficiently large number of importers and thus promote competition in
the sector; and (ii) the creation of an Input Credit Insurance Facility(ICIF)
that would make term credit available to farmers for the repayment of input
credit in case of production shortfall that is due to weather or similar
emergency situations. The Facility would hence operate as an "insurance
scheme" that would protect the nascent input distribution systems from
potential shocks in its early stages that might set back its development.
Besides an initial contribution of $100,000 that Government would make into
the fund, the necessary resources for the Input Credit Insurance Facility
would come out of the revolving funds from the line of credit for fertilizer
imports;
(b)     advisory services for the adoption of modern inputs and access to credit
-2 -



to small-holder farmers through specialized local organizations and producer
groups. Training and demonstration activities would be used to raise
farmers' technical know how about the use of modern inputs, thereby raising
their profitability and encouraging adoption. In addition, support would be
provided with respect to the use and management of credit for modern inputs
in order to reduce repayment risk and sustain access to loans;
(c)     multiplication and distribution of improved seeds through targeted
technical training and advisory services support, using specialized local
organizations and producer groups, in order to encourage farmers to engage in
seed multiplication.
Support to local agricultural marketing systems. This component's specific
objectives are to: (i) encourage small-holder farmers to enter the market
exchange system; and (ii) to improve the performance of local markets in the
rural areas through the following activities:
(a)     crop conservation, processing, and marketing technologies through (i)
training, using specialized non-governmental and other local organizations to
promote improved crop conservation and marketing techniques among small-
holder farmers; and (ii) funding of R&D activities to develop, test, and
disseminate adapted crop processing technologies.
(b)     strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles through grants and
institutional support to local communities for the improvement of basic
marketing infrastructure, which would create the incentives for supplementary
investment in storage and other marketing infrastructure and equipment by
private traders. This activity would include institutional support to local
communities to strengthen their capacities to effectively manage the rural
marketing sites and to private traders to raise their management skills;
(c)     support to private trader investment in marketing services through
technical and institutional support to traders and producer groups to
facilitate their access to and management of credit from commercial banks for
investment in infrastructure and equipment for storage, processing,
transport, and marketing of agricultural products.
Technical support, monitoring, and evaluation. The main tasks under this
component are to: (i) work with local organizations and specialized NGOs to
provide effective technical support to beneficiary groups; (ii) manage
project funds, including the handling of request for funding from
beneficiaries, and (iii) organize the updates of the baseline surveys and
gather other necessary information to closely monitor and evaluate the
project's output and outcome.
Project Implementation
A detailed draft implementation manual is available and would be finalized
during negotiations. A summary of the implementation arrangements is
presented below:
Implementation period: 3 years: 1999-2002
Executing agency: Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry
(MINAGRI)
-3-



Project Management: A Technical Support Unit (TSU), staffed with qualified
professional that are recruited on a competitive basis, would be in charge of
the day-to-day management of the project activities. In addition to the
Project Coordinator (PC), the unit would include, an extension, monitoring
and evaluation specialist (EMES) and an administrative and financial
management specialist (AFMS), plus support personnel. If MINAGRI decides to
assign its staff to TSU, an assessment of the qualification of the considered
staff would be carried out before project effectiveness. The project would
be implemented primarily through collaboration with specialized non-
governmental and other private sector organizations. The TSU would therefore
not include technical personnel.
Project implementation: There is a significant number of specialized non-
governmental and local organizations in Rwanda that are active in rural
development. In implementing the project, maximum use would be made of these
institutions. Besides the need to ensure proximity and participation, the
added benefits of doing so would be to promote the emergence of a local
market for technical advisory services that would outlive the project.
Project Sustainability
Sustainability concerns would relate primarily to two main aspects of the
pilot project. The first would be with respect to access of traders to
funding for fertilizer imports and seasonal credit after the depletion of the
line of credit. The second would be with respect to the funding and
management of the Input Credit Insurance Facility. Regarding the former,
funding under the line credit would be offered to traders on a declining
basis, with the share of imports that can be funded through the credit going
from 60 percent in the first year, down to 40 in the second, and 20 percent
in the third and last year. By the end of the third year, participating
traders would have demonstrated their ability to mobilize the necessary
funding to finance their import and seasonal credit activities. The line of
credit would encourage direct business contacts between importers, on the one
hand, and commercial banks and foreign suppliers, on the other hand, thereby
opening future sources of funding. In the same manner, the project's
technical and institutional support activities, by promoting institutional
mechanisms to reduce repayment risks and raise credit management skills among
small-holder farmers, would provide additional incentives to commercial banks
to lend to input traders. Regarding the input credit insurance fund, the
sustainability issue is less about funding, which is guaranteed through the
revolving funds from the line of credit, but rather about its management
after the completion of the pilot project. The best option would be to place
the Facility under the institutional responsibility of its immediate
beneficiaries. Assistance would be provided to existing farmer organizations
possibly under the current pilot project but certainly under the rural sector
support project under preparation to develop an institutional mechanism that
would allow the Facility to continue to operate effectively and under the
oversight of these organizations. Albeit to a lesser extent, the continued
availability of the advisory services that the project would provide to
farmers would also raise some sustainability questions. There are examples
of specialized organizations that currently offer similar services to farmers
on a semi-commercial basis but at a much lower scale. Working through these
types of organizations, the project would seek to encourage the development
of markets for such services in two ways. Firstly, it would build business
- 4 -



ties between the local service providers and local farmers which should
survive the life of the project. Furthermore, during implementation, the
project would work with farmer and local organizations to induce farmers to
pay an increasing share of the services provided to them.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Lessons from completed Bank projects in Rwanda that have been incorporated
into the project design and preparation include: greater attention paid to
institutional reform and capacity building; full consideration of the
stakeholders' views and the needs and demands of local users; the necessity
of assessing the capacity of local communities to manage project activities;
strong coordination mechanisms at the central level; Government commitment
and involvement; attention to cost recovery issues; the experience of private
and public sector co-existence; and coordination among external assistance
agencies.
Poverty Category:
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project is classified as Category B. The possible negative
effects of the project as a whole are small compared to its positive effects.
However, potential negative impacts need to be addressed by ensuring strict
compliance with the recommendations made in this respect. Land tenure,
extensive agricultural practices and input transport safety should be a focal
point and mitigated measures need to be devised despite the fact that the
aggregate environmental impact is expected to be moderate.
The environmental analysis was carried out by an international expert
supported by local consultants. Scoping sessions were organized to consult
with Government agencies and beneficiaries in the Butare and Kigali regions.
The analysis put considerable emphasis on determining the relationships
between the increase in production and input use and the potential impact on
the affected populations, and soil and water resources. An important finding
of the analysis is that the environmental protection component would need to
be carried out according to the type of crops and soils, as well as
fertilizer and pesticide requirements as follows: (a) set up a training and
monitoring system to prevent abuse in fertilizer and pesticides usage,
pollution of ground water and soil salinization, due to unsafe activities
particularly in wetlands; (b) design training activities on health and
hygiene aspects to prevent the proliferation of agricultural and fertilizer-
related diseases in areas where fertilizer and pesticides are intensively
used; and (c) conduct an awareness program on input transport safety. In
addition to the above component, a routine set of environmental protection
activities relative to vegetation and soil improvement should be designed and
effectively implemented by producers with the assistance of local
organizations, local and national research institutes, and the agricultural
faculty of Butare's University, under regulations established and agreed upon
by both the Ministry of Soils Resettlement, and Environment Protection and
the Ministry of Agriculture.
Program Objective Categories
-5-



The project will contribute to the following Project Objective Categories
(POCs): institutional and private sector development, employment and income
generation, and poverty reduction.
Contact Points:
Ousmane Badiane
Task Manager
(202) 458-4730
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental Analysis
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
1. Project Overview
With a demographic growth rate of 3.1 per cent per annum and made mainly of
rural population, the demand for land and renewable natural resources is
taking a great toll on the country's natural resource base and the physical
environment is significantly degraded. The average temperature is 18 degree
Celsius with an annual rainfall of about 900 to 1600 mm. The country's
agricultural production has declined despite the huge extension of areas
under cultivation. The situation has been exacerbated by the 1994 war and
genocide.
The objective of the pilot project is to speed up the intensification of
agricultural production and thereby raise productivity in the sector and the
rest of the rural economy by promoting input distribution and output
marketing systems. This would be achieved through a rational use of modern
inputs and a sound management of natural resources. The main components of
the project are:
1. Promotion of input use and distribution systems through:
(a) farmer access to seasonal credit for modern inputs
(b) advisory services for adoption of modern inputs and access to credit
(c) multiplication and distribution of improved seeds
2. Support to local agricultural marketing systems:
(a) crop conservation and marketing technologies
(b) strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles
(c) support to private trader investment in marketing services
2. Environmental Analysis
The required environmental assessment reflects the concern of the Government
for sustained use of the nation's resources, which constitute the basis of
the national economy. The environmental assessment of the proposed project
was therefore conducted in compliance with the Bank's Environmental
Assessment Safeguard Policy, OP/BP/GP 4.01.
The proposed project is classified as Category B. The possible negative
effects of the project as a whole are small compared to its positive effects.
However, potential negative impacts need to be addressed by ensuring strict
compliance with the recommendations made in this respect. Land tenure,
extensive agricultural practices and input transport safety should be a focal
point and mitigated measures need to be devised despite the fact that the
aggregate environmental impact is expected to be moderate.
The environmental analysis was carried out by an international expert
supported by local consultants. Scoping sessions were organized to consult
with Government agencies and beneficiaries in the Butare and Kigali regions.
- 7 -



The analysis put considerable emphasis on determining the relationships
between the increase in production and input use and the potential impact on
the affected populations, and soil and water resources. An important finding
of the analysis is that the environmental protection component would need to
be carried out according to the type of crops and soils, as well as
fertilizer and pesticide requirements as follows: (a) set up a training and
monitoring system to prevent abuse in fertilizer and pesticides usage,
pollution of ground water and soil salinization, due to unsafe activities
particularly in wetlands; (b) design training activities on health and
hygiene aspects to prevent the proliferation of agricultural and fertilizer-
related diseases in areas where fertilizer and pesticides are intensively
used; and (c) conduct an awareness program on input transport safety. In
addition to the above component, a routine set of environmental protection
activities relative to vegetation and soil improvement should be designed and
effectively implemented by producers with the assistance of local
organizations, local and national research institutes, and the agricultural
faculty of Butare's University, under regulations established and agreed upon
by both the Ministry of Soils Resettlement, and Environment Protection and
the Ministry of Agriculture.
3. Mitigation Plans
The EA has determined that the benefits of increased intensification for
farmers and the Rwandese economy far outweighs the potential negative impact.
Positive effects are in terms of increased food production and food security,
deforestation prevention, diversification of production and diets, a
lessening of pressure on lands and rural exodus, higher incomes, and
improvement of living standards. Farmers have expressed considerable and
unanimous interest in producing more higher-value crops. Potential negative
effects of the Project do exist and should be taken into consideration during
the project implementation phase. These effects differ by type of production
techniques and across project components. Effects related to fertilizer and
pesticides usage could be important in areas where farmers are already
growing crops intensively. Also, the risks are higher for components dealing
with input distribution and transport. Furthermore, most rural areas lack
the necessary preventive measures to mitigate health risks. Traffic accident
during input distribution could be one important negative impact.
The main potential, environmentally negative effects under the proposed
project are related to input misapplication and transport. Thus, it is
important that soil fertilization practices and transport safety management
and awareness be included in the advisory services activities to ensure
better soil regeneration and prevention of road transport accidents.
Fertilizer and pesticides use should be monitored and their effects assessed
before any expansion of the project activities into fragile land areas.
The environmental analysis has made a comprehensive inventory of all
environmental problems encountered in the project area. This is based on
observation and records from discussion and previous reports on similar
studies. The proposed mitigation plans include technical, institutional and
legislative recommendations. The technical measures include standard
procedures to prevent or control agrochemical pollution, input transport
related impacts, combined with a strong emphasis on information campaigns to
make farmers and their employees more aware of disease risks involved in
intensive agricultural activities and fertilizers and pesticides usage. In
- 8 -



many cases there are non-governmental and other local organizations that can
work with the project management, in addition to national agriculture
research institutes, the National University, and private consulting firms.
The project management could also hire local organizations with extensive
experience in natural resources management to monitor all environmental
issues generated by the project's upstream and downstream activities. These
organizations should be provided with limited external support and basic
logistics to carry out such routine activities. The implementing agency
should work in close collaboration with specialized private firms and
research institutes to help enhance producer knowledge on how to protect the
environment under the targeted intensification activities.
Recommendations
The most important concern associated with agricultural activities in a
mountainous and densely populated country like Rwanda is the negative impact
on soil degradation, wetlands water resources pollution by agrochemicals, and
overexploitation of arable land. There is a weak institutional link between
existing agriculture practices and preventive public health. Health
authorities are usually notified when there is a problem. Therefore, there
is a clear need to include training activities on the safe usage of
agrochemicals targeted to producers and their employees. A inventory of
natural resources and wetland water resources would be required to ensure
that appropriate preventive measures can be undertaken. It is recommended
that the Government of Rwanda support the reinforcement and the management of
a natural resources monitoring system, establish input road transport safety
measures, and support efforts to encourage community based natural resources
management, safe handling of pesticides, and the fair use of fertilizer to
stop soil erosion and deforestation.
Old case-load refugees are the Rwandese refugees from the conflicts of the 1950s,
1960s and 1970s and their descendants. These exiles returned to Rwanda in massive
numbers in 1994 and 1995. New case-load refugees are those who left Rwanda in
1994.
9



