Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19107-RW
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
(US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 1, 1999
Rural Development 2
Country Department 9
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Franc Rwandais (FRw)
FRw 342.57 US$ 1 (June 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              African Development Bank
AFMS             Administrative and Financial Management Specialist
ARMD             Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
]BNR             Banque Nationale du Rwanda
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CRDP             Community Reintegration and Development Project
D)EM             Direction of Extension and Marketing
DPM              Direction de la Politique Monetaire
DRSA             Direction Regionale des Services Agricoles
EMES             Extension, Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
FEWS             Food Security Early Warning System
FRw              Franc Rwandais
FY               Fiscal year
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICIF             Input Credit Insurance Facility
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IFAD             Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
LIL              Learning and innovation Loan
MIANAGRI         Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Forestry
MINECOFIN        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MININTER         Ministry of the Interior, Communal Development and Resettlement
lNsGO            Non-govemnmental organization
PFI              Participating Financial Intermediaries
PNAS             Programme National d'Actions Sociales
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
PS               Procurement Specialist
PSD              Private Sector Support Project
SFICF            Small Fanner Input Credit Facility
SIM              Systeme d'Infonnation sur les Marches
TSU              Technical Support Unit
UBP              Union des Banques Populaires du Rwanda
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director (Acting): Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader: Ousmane Badiane



Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project
CONTENTS
Project Appraisal Document ............................................................
A:  Project Development Objective .............................................................2..
1. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2.
2. Key Perfonnance Indicators ..................................................................                                                             2.
B: Strategic Context ...........................................................2....
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project ...................... ........................2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ..................................................................2...
3. Learning and Development Issues to be Addressed by the Project ..................................................                                 ..................
4. Learning and Innovation Expectations ..................................................................3....
C: Project Description Summary ...........................................................4..
1. Project Components ..................................................................4.
2. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ..................................................................6...
3. ProjectAlternativesConsidered ...................................................................S
4. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms to be Supported by the Project .................................................................. 9
5. Benefits and Target Population ..................................................................                                                       10...
D: ProjectRationale ............................................................... 
E:  Summary Project Analysis .............................................................10.
1. Institutional ..................................................................                                                                         .0.
2. Environmental Assessment ..................................................................                                                              II...
3. Par ticipatory Approach .......................................................................
F:  Sustainabilty  andRisks ................................................................
1. Sustainability of Project Activities ..................................................................                                                 11....
2. Critical Risks and Minimization Measures ..................................................................                                             12..
G: Main Loan  Conditions .............................................................    6.
1. Effectiveness Conditions: ..................................................................                                                            L6..
2. Disbursement Conditions ..................................................................                                                               16...
3. Other: ..................................................................16.
H: Readiness for Implementation ...........................................................                                                                    l6A
I,: Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................................................1l..
Annexes:
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary ...........................................................................................................................
Annex 2. Detailed ProjectDescription .22..
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .31...
Annex 4. Financial & Disbursement Summaries.. 32.
Tabie I .Financial Summary .32..
Table 2.  DisbursementAccounts by Financiers ....................................................................................... 33.
Annex 5.  Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements .3.4
Table 1. Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements .40
Table 2. ThresholdsforProcurementMethods and PriorReview .                                                                                    41
Annex 6. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .42.
Annex 7. Documents in Project File .43..
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .4.4..
Annex 9. Eligibility Criteria .45...
Annex 10. Environmental Analysis.                                                                                                                              4..
Annex 11. Overview of Survey Results of Input Use, Fertilizer Distribution & Rural Marketing Systems . .51
Table 1. Use of Improved Seed and Fertlizers among Farm Households (1998 . 555
Table 2. Crop Production by Farm Households (1998) .55
Table 3. Marketed Output by Farm Households (1998) .5.6.
Table 4. Private Sector Partcipation in Agricultural Output Marketing .5.6
Table 5. Private Sector Participation in Agricultural Input Distribution.                                                         5.           7
Table 6. Access to and Use of Credit by Traders (1998).                                                                                        57
Annex 12. Capacities of Specialized Local Organizations.                                                                                                        58.
Annex 13. Country at a Glance .60...
Map: IBRD No. 25927R



Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Departnent 9
Date: July 1,1999                                   Team Leader: Ousmane Badiane
Country Manager/Director (Acting): Emmanuel Mbi    Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: 58038                                   Sector: Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [x] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [x] Credit      [] Grant      [  Guaranty       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (UJS$m): SDR 3.8 million (US$5 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:   [ ] To be defined     [ ] Multicurrency     [  Single currency
[ ] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed           [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):      10
Years to maturity:         40
Commitment fee:            n/a
Service charge:            0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan: n/a
Finaiwingplim:  E I. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......
Government                                               0.50               -                0.50
IDA                                                      3.00              2.00              5.00
Other (Beneficiaries)                                    0.11               -                0.11
Total:                                                   3.61              2.00              5.61
Borrower: Rwandese Republic
Guarantor:
Responsible agency or entity: Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry; Banque Nationale du Rwanda
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
,.    B    ,.,<    ......   ,..isoB   .  B:t  s.EegB,Ssi - |3 g ' 3 1SS .................................................I......'
Anrnual                                             1.88         1.64        1.48
Cumulative                                             1.88         3.52         5.00
Project imiplementation period: FYOO-FY03
Expected effectiveness date: August 1999            Expected closing date: June 30, 2003
Implementing agency: Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry; National Bank of Rwanda
Contact person: Alfred Mutebwa, Director of Extension and Marketing, MINAGRI.
Address:
Tel: 250-85053          Fax: 250-85057                E-mail:



Agricultural S Rural Market Development Project                                        Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective (See. Annex 1)
The project's main objective is to contribute to the revitalization of Rwanda's agricultural and rural
economy by successfully identifying policies and institutional mechanisms: (a) to promote efficient,
private-sector based, local agricultural input distribution and output marketing systems in order (b) to
raise modem farm input use among farmers and thereby the productivity of labor and hence the level of
incomes in the rural sector. Its subsidiary objectives are to test alternative approaches to:
*     facilitate access by farmers to credit for modem farm inputs;
*    provide technical advisory services to farmers on the use of modem farm inputs;
*     encourage the emergence of a sustainable modem input import and distribution system; and
*     encourage investmnents by private traders in marketing services in rural areas.
2. Key P:erformance Indicators (See Annex 1)
Indicators of progress towards the achievement of the project objectives would document both the
effectiveness of the instruments used and the impact on the beneficiaries so as to enable government to
assess the replicability of the project activities on a national scale. The indicators would be measured
through: (a) the increase in the volume of modem input imports by private traders and modern input use
by farmers; (b) the increase in the number of modem input importers and the share of farmers using
modem farm inputs and improved seeds; (c) the number of improved rural marketing sites; (d) the level of
investment in input distribution and output marketing services by private traders; (e) the increase in
average output sales by small-holder farm households; and (±) the level of quality of implementation of
project activities. A baLseline survey of the input distribution, output marketing, and faLrm household
sectors has been carried out during project preparation. The above indicators would be produced from
regular (annual) updates of these surveys.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (Annex 1)
CAS document number: 17478-RW             Date of latest CAS discussion: April 7, 1998;
Progress Report: June 29, 1999
The Courntry Assistance Strategy (CAS) outlines the following sector-related goals: (a) the revitalization
of the rur-al economy which requires sustainable increases in agricultural productivity and the protection of
natural resources, the provision of social and economic infrastructure, and the improvement in the
functioning of rural markets; (b) investment in human resource development and capacity building in
order to develop a skilled labor force and improve the welfare of the population; and (c) support to policy
and regulatory reforms and selected infrastructure investments to promote private sector trade and
investmenit, and improve Rwanda's competitiveness.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
The combination of rapid population growth, deteriorating soil fertility and limited availability of
agricultural land has resulted in the following set of problems in Rwanda's agricultural sector:
(a) increasing labor intensity and declining labor productivity; (b) strong subsistence orientation,
reinforced by weak coramodity and labor markets; (c) low levels of local off-farm employment: and



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                      Page 3
wages; and (d) declining incomes and a deteriorating food security situation. These problems reinforce
each other as limited market orientation reduces the incentives for technology innovation which is
necessary to raise labor productivity and incomes. The level of investment in technical innovation that is
necessary for sustained intensification and productivity increases depends on the rate of
commercialization, i.e., the pace at which additional output can be absorbed through local and foreign
markets to yield returns that are high enough to induce continued investment in better technologies.
The Ministry of Agriculture has recently completed extensive work on the formulation of its agricultural
strategy, with the assistance of the Bank, FAO and the EU. The strategy reflects a clear shift from the past
narrow  approach  of food self-sufficiency towards greater market-orientation, underpinned by
intensification in input use, diversification and specialization in agricultural production. The Government
of Rwanda, with the assistance of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, has recently
completed a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which outlines the Government's objectives for the medium
term and lays out the framework for an adjustment program which would be supported by the Bank's
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC). One of the main components of the ERC is the revitalization of the
agricultural and rural economy. The Government also intends to develop a comprehensive action plan for
private sector development in the context of the IDA-supported Private Sector Development Project. The
Government has expressed its commitment to create an enabling policy environment for the development
of a market-oriented agricultural system through reforms in the institutional, regulatory and incentives
framework. Finally, the Government has articulated its strategy for promoting export competitiveness
through further liberalization of the trade, exchange and investment regimes.
3. Learning and Development Issues to be Addressed by the Project
There are no clear-cut policy options to achieving the objectives of higher productivity and income levels
through increased intensification in the current context of an initially heavily subsistence-oriented
agricultural sector. The challenge facing the proposed project is, thus, different from, for instance, that of
a project that is seeking to deliver services directly to a target population based on a set of well-understood
policy options and existing / effective institutional mechanisms. The challenge here is to indirectly
induce a change in the behavior of farmers and other economic agents in the crop marketing and input
distribution systems, in line with overall sector objectives of increased commercialization and improved
access to and higher adoption of modem farm inputs. Consequently, the lessons to be learned through the
proposed pilot project relate to the best set of policies, incentives, and institutional mechanisms in the
current context of Rwanda to raise local supply of modem farm inputs (fertilizers, improved seeds,
agrochemicals, and livestock supplies), stimulate demand for these inputs among farmers, and foster the
development of marketing services in the rural areas. In other words, the focus of the project would be on
the institutional, structural, and policy-related determinants underlying the behavior of economic agents in
the farming and input and output marketing sectors, as well as the constraints conditioning that behavior.
During the preparation of the proposed project, a rapid survey of the three sectors has been carried out in
order to increase our understanding of the above determinants and constraints. The knowledge that is
gained therefrom has been used to design the set of policies, incentives and institutional mechanisms to be
tested under the proposed project.
4. l,earning and Innovation Expectations
[x] ]Economic [x] Financial [x] Technical [x] Institutional [ ]Social [ ]Environmental
[x] Participation [ ] Other
The learning and innovation expectations are that by the end of the project, we would have identified the
most effective strategies to: (a) sustainably improve the supply of and access to modem farm inputs in the



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                         Page 4
context of liberalized market; (b) accelerate the transition towards greater market-orientation among
Rwanda's farmers; and (c) foster the emergence of markets for technical and institutional advisoHr
services in rural areas;
C: Projiect Description Summary
1. Prcject Components (See Annex 2 for a detailed description; and Annex 3 for a
detailed cost breakdown)
The proposedproject would have the following three main components:
*     Promotion of input use and distribution systems. The specific objectives of this component are:
(i) to sustainably raise the supply of modem farm inputs, i.e., fertilizers, improved seeds,
agrochemicals, and livestock supplies; and (ii) to stimulate demand and facilitate access by farmers
to these inputs. Most farmers in Rwanda lack the resources to buy modem farm inputs in cash
when it is needed. Raising the level of input use fast enough and speeding up intensification
therefore require institutional mechanisms that ensure sustained access to credit for modem farm
inputs. The project seeks to achieve this through the following set of activities:
(a)   farmer access to seasonal credit for modern farm inputsthrough: (i) a line of credit to
private importers of modem farm inputs, fertilizers, certified seeds, agro-chemicals, and
livestock supplies that would provide to them the necessary resources and incentives to
extend sales credit to farmers. The line of credit would also facilitate access to capital for
modem input imports to a sufficiently large number of importers and thus promote
competition in the sector; (ii) the creation of an Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF) that
would nmake term credit available to farmers for the repayment of seasonal input credit in
case of production shortfalls that are due to weather or similar emergency situations. The
Facility would hence operate as an "insurance scheme" that would protect the nascent
input distribution systems from potential shocks in its early stages that might set back its
development. The Facility would be funded through an initial contribution of the
equivalent of $100,000 by Government and through the revolving funds generated from
the repayment of the loans to private importers under the line of credit for the import of
modem farm inputs; and (iii) the establishment of a Small Farmer Input Credit Facility
(SFICF)l to promote farmer cooperative lending activities for poor farmers and farner
groups, especially those in remote areas who may not be able to have access to bank
lending or sales credit by traders. This component would provide grants to these poor
farmers through their cooperatives for the establishment of revolving credit funds to
finance the acquisition of modem farm inputs.
(b)    advisory services for the adoption of modern farm inputs and access to credit to farmers
through specialized local organizations and producer groups. Training and demonstration
activities would be used to raise farmers' technical know how about the use of modem
farm inputs, thereby raising their profitability and encouraging adoption. In addition,
support would be provided with respect to the access, use, and management of credit for
modem farm inputs in order to reduce repayment risk and sustain access to loans;
(c)    multiplication and distribution of improved seeds through targeted technical training and
advisory services support, using specialized local organizations and producer groups, in
order to encourage farmers to engage in seed multiplication and traders in seed
distribution across local markets.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                               Page 5
*     Support to local agricultural marketing systems. This component's specific objectives are to:
(i) encourage farmers to enter the market exchange system; and (ii) to improve the performance of
local markets in the rural areas through the following activities:
(a)    crop conservation, processing, and marketing technologies through (i) training, using
specialized non-govemnmental and other local organizations to promote improved crop
conservation and marketing techniques among farmers; and (ii) funding of R&D activities
to develop, test, and disseminate adapted crop processing technologies.
(b)    strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles through grants and institutional
support to local communities for the improvement of basic marketing infrastructure,
which would create the incentives for supplementary investment in storage and other
marketing infrastructure and equipment by private traders. This activity would include
institutional support to local communities to strengthen their capacities to effectively
manage the rural marketing sites and to private traders to raise their management skills;
(c)    support to private trader investment in marketing services through technical and
institutional support to traders and producer groups to facilitate their access to and
management of credit from local banks for investment in infrastructure and equipment for
storage, processing, transport, and marketing of agricultural products.
*     Technical support, monitoring, and evaluation. The main tasks under this component are to:
(i) work with local organizations and specialized NGOs to provide effective technical support to
beneficiary groups; (ii) manage project funds, including the handling of request for funding from
beneficiaries, and (iii) organize the updates of the baseline surveys and gather other necessary
information to closely monitor and evaluate the project's output and outcome.
Indicative Project Costs
- '    :--{on   t: *S- gIndicative                           Bank-'' o- Bank-
Promotion of input use and        AM              3.29      59           3.03         61
distribution systems
Supporttolocalagricultural        AM              1.77      32           1.56         31
marketing systems
Technical support, monitoring,                     .55       9           0.41          8
and evaluation
Total Project Costs                5.61     100           5.00        100
Note: The total project cost includes beneficiaries contribution.



Agricultural &. Rural Market Deve opment Project                                       Page 6
2. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A detailed draft implementation manual is available and has been discussed during negotiations. It is
currently under review for finalization by Government. A summary of the implementation arrangements
is presented below:
Implementation period: 3 years: 1999-2002
Executing agencies: Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry (MINAGRI); and Banque
Nationale du Rwanda.
Project Management: A Technical Support Unit (TSU), staffed with qualified professional that are
recruited on a competitive basis, would be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project
activities. In addition to the Project Coordinator (PC), the unit would include, an extension, monitoring
and evaluation specialist (EMES) and an administrative and financial management specialist (AFMS),
plus support personnel. If MINAGRI decides, for reasons of cost-saving, sustainability, and/or capacity-
building, to recruit the project coordinator (PC) or the extension, monitoring and evaluation specialist
(EMES) among its staff, an assessment of the qualification of the considered staff would be carried out
before project effectiveness. Any cost-savings would be set aside for the first year of the project
implementation and used for any necessary staffing adjustment in case of unsatisfactory implementation
or monitoring of the project activities. If project implementation is satisfactory, the resources could be
allocated to other uses at the end of the first year. Furthermore, MIiNAGRI staff that are recruited into
TSU should work full time for the project. The project would be implemented primarily through
collaboraition with specialized non-governmental and other private sector organizations. The TSU wxould
therefore not include techmical personnel but would rather work through sub-contracting.
Project Implementation: There is a significant number of specialized non-governmental and local
organizations in Rwanda that are active in rural development. In implementing the project, maximum use
would be made of these institutions. Besides the need to ensure proximity and participation, the added
benefits of doing so would be to promote the emergence of a local market for technical advisory services
that would outlive the project. A brief assessment of the technical, institutional, and financial capacities
of these organizations is presented in Annex 12.
Promotion of input use and distribution systems: The line of credit under this component would be made
available to eligible private traders through eligible financial institutions, with Banque Nationale du
Rwanda (BNR) acting as the Apex institution. The line of credit would be tied to modem input imports to
prevent its eventual use for other purposes than facilitating farmer access to modem farm inputs thrDugh
sales credlit. Participating financial institutions would assume the full financial and commercial risks of
the sub-loans granted under the line of credit. Participating importers would apply for the loan through
the usual procedures used by the financial institutions, which would review these applications u-sing
prevailing standard policies and procedures. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between BNR
and the government defining the functions and responsibilities of BNR and participating financial
institutions, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
credit. The relationship between IDA and BNR would be defined in a separate project agreement.
The Inpult Credit Insurance Facility will have an account at BNR, in which the reimbursement from the
sub-loans to importers or modem farm inputs would be deposited, including the interest charges less the
remuneration of BNR's DPM. In the case of weather-induced or similar production shortfall, and upon
decision by MINAGRI and the TSU, in consultation with IDA, to mobilize the funds under the Facility,
eligible farmers would apply to TSU for credit from the Facility to repay their seasonal loans. TSU, with



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 7
the help of the specialized organizations working with beneficiary farmers would screen and approve the
applications. The screening and evaluation of beneficiary applications would be based on (a) the technical
data sheet that each beneficiary farmer would have with the respective partner organization, which will
determine (i) the land and other assets that he/she owns, (ii) the crops that are cultivated, (iii) the expected
yields and revenue, as well as (iv) his/her borrowing capacity; and (b) the contract that each beneficiary
farmer would have with the input distributor or local bank providing the credit, which has to be approved
by the partner organization on behalf of TSU. Upon approval, TSU would ask BNR to credit the accounts
of distributors and local banks that had provided input credit to the eligible farmers.
In order to ensure access to credit for modem farmn inputs by poorer farmers and farmers in remote areas,
grants would be provided to farmer groups under a Small Farmer Input Credit Facility (SFICF) to
encourage cooperative lending activities for the acquisition of these inputs. The adoption by Government
of an adequate framework satisfactory to the Association, including a manual of procedures detailing the
criteria, procedures, guidelines, and standard contracts applicable to the provision of such grants is a
condition of disbursement for this component.
The TSU would contract with specialized local organizations to complement the efforts of the DRSA to
provide the necessary technical and institutional advisory services to farmers in order to disseminate know
how about modem farm inputs and ensure maximum profitability of their use. Besides the technical
support, assistance with respect to credit application and management would also be provided through
participating organizations. The TSU would be responsible for ensuring that the specialized organizations
that are hired are qualified. Its staff would review their work programs to ensure their effectiveness with
respect to the project's output and outcomes.
Supp?ort to agricultural marketing systems: The TSU would contract with specialized non-govemnmental
and local organizations to provide training to beneficiary farmers on crop marketing and conservation
techniques. The same approach would be used in implementing the sub-component on the improvement
of crop marketing sites. The specialized organizations, based on demand and willingness / ability of
beneficiaries to participate in the investment, would provide assistance in preparing project and grant
applications to the TSU. The TSU would review and approve the grant applications. Using the same sub-
contracting approach, the project would provide training and other necessary advisory services to traders
to facilitate access to investment credit from local banks, and ensure proper management of the marketing
sites and trader investments in marketing infrastructure and equipment. The TSU would be responsible
for ensuring that the specialized organizations that are hired are qualified, verifying that their work
program  is consistent with the project output, monitoring the interventions and evaluating their
effectiveness.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements: The Project Technical Support Unit (TSU)
will be established for the execution and implementation of the Project activities. The TSU will be
responsible for project financial management including the preparation and production of the annual
financial statements, in accordance with intemationally accepted accounting principles, as well as making
arrangements for their certification by a competent and experienced audit firm under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The TSU will also monitor all disbursements under the projects and ensure that they
are made in conformity with IDA requirements. BNR will submit to IDA through TSU annual and
quarterly reports on the progress of implementation of the line of credit component. During Pre-appraisal,
the key areas of the project financial management were reviewed in compliance with the IDA-established
financial management system assessment guidelines to ensure agreement with Bank laid down
procedures. It was agreed that a computerized financial management information system, including the
Manual of procedures, the accounting, budgetary, financial, and internal control systems, will be
established in the TSU by a reputable consultant and it would be operational at the outset of project
implementation. The design of the financial management system will be based on the reporting



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                        Page 8
requirements of the Bank's new  Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) or PMR-based
disbursenment method.  The TSU will be adequately staffed by three competent and experienced
professionals, including an Administrative and Financial Management Specialist.  The financial
managemLent system will allow for the proper recording of all project-related transactions as well as timely
monitoring of expenditu.res per category, per executing agencies, and components. The financial repc.rting
will evolve from the traditional basic set of financial statements during the first 18 months of the project
implementation to the PMR-based method. The PMR-based reporting will start after the Midterm Review
and continue till the end of project implementation.
The records and accounits of all the components of the project, including the line of credit and the ICIF
revolving funds at the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR), would be audited annually by an independent
auditor. Regarding the LoC, the audit firm will review the performance of (BNR) as well as that of the
private domestic input distributors and the local banks contractors, and provide a specific opinion on the
effectiveness and efficiency of the lending and distribution procedures. In addition to the audit opinion on
the financial statements, the auditor will be required to express separate opinions on the SOEs and the
management and utilization of the special accounts. Finally, the auditor will issue a Management report
with practical recommendations for improving the project intemal control system. The establishment
within the TSU of a sound financial management system acceptable to IDA and the recruitment of the
project auditors would be conditions of effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The Technical Support Unit would implement a systematic and
detailed monitoring and reporting system focusing on both the output and outcome of the project. TMe
system should allow an effective evaluation of: (a) the effectiveness of the project's delivery mechanisms
and procedures; (b) the impact of the pilot activities on the basis of the stated objectives, the baseline data
base, and the input, output, and impact indicators that are identified in the Project Design Summary
(Annex 1); and (c) the replicability of the activities at a wider national scale. The key tasks under the
monitoring arrangements would include: (i) updates in years two and three of the project of the baszline
surveys of the input distributor, output trader, and farm-household sectors; (ii) analysis of the survey data
through qualified and independent research entities (universities, research centers, consulting firms); and
(iii) collection of additicinal information at commune level and as necessary to document the progress
status of project activities. The progress towards project outcomes would be evaluated during execution
and at project completion. A project mid-term review would be carried out by Govemment and IDA after
the first eighteen months of project implementation. The mid-term review would determine, based on the
results of M&E as described above, the extent to which the project is performing vis-a-vis its development
objectives: and the possibility of its replicability. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be
prepared at least six months prior to the final disbursement of the Credit. The Government would prepare
its own evaluation of the, project, including a plan for its continued implementation, if needed. For this
purpose, it could enlist thLe support of an independent entity to carry out all or part of the evaluation.
3. Project Alternatives Considered
A number of altemative project constellations could have been chosen to potentially achieve the samne
objective of raising agricultural productivity and rural incomes through increased intensification of
production activities. Such project activities would have to ease access to and raise use of modern farm
inputs while at the same time improving rural marketing systems to provide increase market outlets for the
additional output that would result from better and higher use of these inputs. One such alternative could
be a project to improve road infrastructure and promote the rural transport sector. A disadvantage of that
option in comparison to the one proposed here is that it would have a less direct effect on input use and
marketing activities.  Furthermore, it would take a considerably larger amount of time for road
infrastructure and transport sector projects to lead to the types of induced investment in production



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                        Page 9
technologies and marketing infrastructure and equipment that are expected to take place under the
proposed project. A second altemative would have consisted in setting up a project that would directly or
indirectly, through a public or private company, import modem farm inputs for sale through private
distributors. The European Union has been running such a program for fertilizers for the last few years
with very limited success. One of the main weaknesses of such a program compared to the proposed
project is that it would not contribute significantly to the development of an effective private sector-based
modem farm input supply system. For instance, by importing directly instead of encouraging private
traders to do so, the EU program has created disincentives for the latter to develop business contacts with
foreign suppliers. A mechanism based on such a program would be unsustainable and would most likely
lead to a collapse of input supply systems as soon as the project would end. One could still encourage
intensification by improving access to rural credit through a project that would support local banks.
Ac,ess to credit is, however, not primarily a supply issue. Furthermore, credit alone would not lead to an
increase in modem farm input demand and use, unless input distribution and output marketing systems are
strengthened. Moreover, local banks in Rwanda have traditionally received considerable support from the
Swiss and such support, although interrupted currently, is likely to continue in the further. Canada also
has been showing some interest lately in supporting rural financial systems. Consequently, the proposed
project would, instead of focusing on support to local banks directly, include a component to strengthen
business ties between the latter and farmers and to reduce the risk associated with seasonal credit lending
in nrual areas.
The sub-component that aims at encouraging lending by local banks to fanners is not only a complement
to the one that seeks to promote seasonal credit trough private traders. If local banks where in a position
to satisfy farmers' demand for seasonal credit, then there would be no need to set up a separate activity
targeting input traders as a possible source of credit. The two sub-components as well as the proposed
Small Farmer Input Credit Facility are therefore to be seen as competing alternative approaches to
improving access to modern farm input credit among farmers. The proposed project is designed such that
the altematives would compete directly. They would be monitored closely and project resources and
activities would then eventually be shifted to support the alternative(s) that would provide access to credit
more effectively.
4. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms to be Supported by the Project
The government has initiated a series of reforms aimed at liberalizing the country's trading and exchange
rate regimes and improving the environment for private sector development. The proposed project would
support these reforms by successfully identifying the most effective set of policies, incentives, and
institutional mechanisms to encourage private sector entry in importing, local marketing, and trading
systems of the country's largest economic sector, agriculture. The project would also test how policy
reforms can be complemented with targeted institutional and technical support to accelerate response by
the private sector. It would contribute to laying a strong foundation for sustained private sector-led
growth in the agricultural sector by encouraging investment and by enhancing cooperation between the
private and public sectors. The govermment intends to deepen economic and institutional reforms to
improve the competitiveness of the economy and enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the private
sector in providing services. The proposed activities aimed at promoting efficient systems of supplying
inputs and providing technical advisory services to farmers through the private sector would contribute
directly to these objectives. Furthermore, the government is currently preparing a major agricultural
sector support program which is primarily based on the reform objectives outlined above. The centerpiece
of the program is the acceleration of agricultural intensification and diversification of the rural economy,
both requiring input and output distribution systems that are efficient and sustainable. The lessons learned
through the proposed 3-year pilot program are thus expected to make a major contribution to the
implementation of the government's reform and support programs in the agricultural sector.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 10
S. Benefits and Target Population
In addition to a series of local consultations, several structured surveys have been carried out in order to
determine the likely benefits of the proposed activities for the main target groups. The groups targeted by
the project are farmers, modem input importers, local input distributors, and traders of agricultural
outputs .
The benefits for the target groups that are expected from the project are the following:
*    farmers in the project communes would have greater access to modem farm inputs through local
markets and would have acquired the know-how to use these inputs in the most profitable manner.
Farmers would also benefit from better performing local marketing systems, which together with
the improvement on the input side would lead to higher productivity of farm-household resources,
increased sales, and higher incomes from farming.
*    private traders flocal distributors and importers) would have access to increased resources and the
necessary skills to expand trading activities in local markets. Furthermore, private traders would
have strengthened their financial, logistical, and institutional capacity to directly import and
distribute modem farm inputs to farmers. The expansion in activity levels in the sector is expected
to lead to increased employment and higher incomes within this target group.
local communities would benefit through greater integration into the exchange system and hence
the national economy, meaning improved access to agricultural inputs, goods, and services
markets.  Local communities would also benefit from  the multiplier effects of increased
agricultural outpilt and marketing activities, which would result in greater diversification of local
economic activities and increased levels of employment and income.
*     consumers (which include the targeted farner and trader groups) would benefit from increased
price stability, lower marketing margins, and increased supplies in local markets, all of which are
expected to result directly from higher productivity in agriculture and its related sectors, as well as
the improved performance of local marketing systems.
D: Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD.)
E: Summary Project: Analysis (detailed assessments for applicable analyses are in the project
file, see also Annex 10 & 12)
1. Institutional
(a) Executing agencies:
A Technical Support Unit (TSU) would execute the project on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Resources, and Forestry (MINAGRI). The TSU would be under the tutelage of MINAGRI's
Direction of Extension and Marketing (DEM). The respective responsibilities of TSU and DEM staff with
respect to the pilot project would be defined clearly in the implementation manual in order to avoid
interference by the latter with TSU's day-to-day management functions. In implementing the various
project components, the TSU would make maximum use of the wealth of specialized non-governmental
and local organizations through sub-contracting. Implementation through local organizations would



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                      Page 11
ensure both proximity and adequate participation. A brief assessment of the technical and financial
capacities of these organizations is presented in Annex 12.
(b) Project management:
The TSU would be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project. Key areas of the project
financial management have been assessed during pre-appraisal to ensure agreement with Bank's
established procedures. TSU staffing would be adequate and would include the Project Coordinator (PC),
an Administrative and financial management specialist (AFMS), an extension, monitoring and evaluation
specialist (EMES), and support personnel. The Unit would: (a) coordinate individual project activities;
(b) prepare and supervise the execution of contracts between the project, the beneficiaries and the
specialized local organizations; and (c) prepare the project's annual work program, annual budgets,
accounts and financial statements, progress reports, disbursements applications, and procurement plans
and execution.
2. EnvironmentalAssessment      Environmental Category     [ ] A    [x] B   [ ] C
An environmental analysis has been carried out (Annex 10). Input misapplication and the associated
pollution effects, and input transport safety are the main sources of potential environmentally negative
effects under the proposed project. Consequently, adequate soil fertilization practices and transport safety
management and awareness would be included in the advisory services activities to ensure better soil
regeneration and prevention of road transport accidents. The training programs would include modules to
prevent abuse in fertilizer and pesticides usage, pollution of ground water and soil salinization,
particularly in wetland areas. Furthermore, fertilizer and pesticides use and their effects would be assessed
before beginning project activities in fragile land areas.
3. iParticipatory Approach
During project preparation a structured survey of beneficiary groups was conducted using detailed
questionnaires. The surveys were carried out in rural areas and communes in 8 prefectures between
January and February 1999 under the supervision of MINAGRI's Directorate of Rural Development
(Direction du Developpement Rural, DDR). MINAGRI has collaborated with research centers and
university experts in implementing the surveys and analyzing the collected information. The total survey
sample included 600 beneficiaries comprised of farmers, input importers and distributors, rural
transporters, and output traders. A summary of selected survey results is presented in Annex 11. In
addition to the formal surveys, a series of local consultations has been organized with targeted
beneficiaries, specialized local organizations, and local government in several prefectures. The results of
the survey and the input from the local consultations have guided the design of the proposed project.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ofProjectActivities
Sustainability concems would relate primarily to two main aspects of the pilot project. The first would be
with respect to access of traders to funding for modem input imports and seasonal credit after the
depletion of the line of credit. The second would be with respect to the funding and management of the.
Input Credit Insurance Facility. Regarding the former, funding under the line credit would be offered to
traders on a declining basis, with the share of modern input import cost that can be funded through the



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 12
credit going from 70 percent for the first import project, down to 55 and 40 percent for the second and
third projects, respectively, and 25 percent for the fourth and any subsequent import projects. By the end
of the third year, participating traders would have demonstrated their ability to mobilize the necessary
funding to finance their import and seasonal credit activities. The line of credit would encourage direct
business contacts between importers, on the one hand, and local banks and foreign suppliers, on the other
hand, thereby opening future sources of funding. In the same manner, the project's technical and
institutional support activities, by promoting institutional mechanisms to reduce repayment risks and raise
credit mainagement skills among farmers, would provide additional incentives to local banks to lend to
input traders.
Regarding the Input Credit Insurance Facility, the sustainability issue is less about funding, which is
guaranteed through the r evolving funds from the line of credit, but rather about its management after the
completion of the pilot project. The best option would be to place the Facility under the institutional
responsibility of its immediate beneficiaries.  Assistance would be provided to existing farmer
organizations possibly under the current pilot project but certainly under the rural sector support project
under preparation to develop an institutional mechanism that would allow the Facility to contin-ue to
operate effectively and under the oversight of these organizations. At the end of the first year,
TSU/M1NAGRI would: (i) carry out an evaluation of the technical and administrative aspects of the
Facility and (ii) propose alternative institutional mechanisms to ensure its long term viability beyond the
project's life.
Sustainability of the Small Farmer hiput Credit Facility depends on the ability of the beneficiary farmer
cooperatives to manage the funds and ensure credit repayment by their members. Given that the funds
that are lent belong to the groups, it is expected that peer pressure would have a strong positive influence
on the willingness of individual members to repay. It is further proposed that farmer cooperatives sub-
contract the management of their revolving credit funds to the local branch of the Banques Populaires
which would be in charge of screening, evaluation, and approval of loan applications.
Albeit to a lesser extent, the continued availability of the advisory services that the project would provide
to farmers would also raise some sustainability questions.  There are examples of specialized
organizations that currently offer similar services to farmers on a semi-commercial basis but at a much
lower scale. Working through these types of organizations, the project would seek to encourage the
development of markets for such services in two ways. Firstly, it would build business ties between the
local service providers arid local farmers which should survive the life of the project. Furthermore, during
implementation, the project would work with farmer and local organizations to induce farmers to pay an
increasing share of the services provided to them.
2. Critical Risks and Minimization Measures
The propcsed project activities rely on a host of explicit and implicit, technical as well institutional and
behavioral assumptions. The table below summarizes these assumptions and indicates, where applicable,
the mitigation measures that would be adopted during implementation. Some of these mitigation
measures are already included in individual sub-components of the project.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 13
1. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Annex 1: Cell "Outputs to Objective"
(i) Government would pursue the  Low         (i) Government has displayed strong commitment to
liberalization of trade, exchange            policy reforms. Policy dialogue with Govermment would
and investment regimes to                    continue during project implementation and under other
promote processing, marketing and            Bank activities in order to eliminate risk of policy
export of agricultural products.             reversal.
(ii) Rtoad infrastructure      Low          (ii) Current level of road infrastructure is sufficient to
deficiencies and weaknesses in the           carry the expected expansion of marketing activities
transport sector would not pose              during pilot activities. Necessary infrastructure
serious constraints to expansion of          improvement to support fiuther expansion of marketing
marketing activities in the short            beyond pilot phase would be addressed under the planned
run.                                         rural sector support project. Other constraints linked to
the transport sector would be addressed through activities
supporting private traders who, based on the survey
results, are also the main transport operators.
(iii) Improved access to credit  Modest     (iii) TSU would monitor and ensure the removal of
would encourage traders to raise             eventual obstacles to competition in the distribution
input imports and extend seasonal            systems and thereby maximize the pressure to compete
credit to farmers.                           for market share among traders and hence create the
incentives to provide credit. The project would also
collaborate with qualified local organizations to advise
farmers in use of credit and help screen credit applicants
in order to reduce the risk involved in extending seasonal
credit.
(iv) Access to credit and better    Modest  (iv) Project would work with specialized local
perf orming markets would                    organizations and government extension services to train
encourage farmers to increase use            farmers in the use of modem farm inputs and provide
of modem farm inputs.                        advisory services to ensure their profitability.
(v) Qualified specialized local  Low        (v) There is a wealth of specialized local organizations
organizations are available to               with strong institutional backing and track records in
advise and train beneficiaries.              Rwanda. TSU would ensure that these are identified.
(vi) Improvement in the marketing Low        (vi) Farmers would receive training in use of modem
environment would encourage                  farm inputs and conservation techniques in order to
farmers to enter the exchange                generate larger quantities of marketable surplus.
system and raise demand for
modem farm inputs.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 14
1 . ........ ........ , f--0..........    ..   .....;:
Rs                Xis  atn                    ik   ti~~ton -:  -  - -- 
(vii) Traders would respond to  Low         (vii) TSU would monitor and work with Government
easier access to credit by                   towards removal of eventual policy and other
expanding marketing activities.             institutional barriers to entry and expansion of marketing
activities.
(viii) Farmers would respond to    Low      (viii) TSU would monitor farmer marketing behavior
advisory services and greater                and work with Government and beneficiaries to remove
market opportunities with                    eventual constraints to raising marketed surplus that are
increased marketed surplus.                  not addressed in other project components.
(ix) TSU would have sound      Low          (ix) The availability of a sound financial managenment
financial management and                     system and the recruitment of a qualified monitoring and
effective monitoring and                     evaluation specialist would be included in the conditions
evaluation systems in place.                 of credit effectiveness. This would be complemented
through close supervision of work programs and their
implementation.
(x) TSU would have the necessary  Modest    (x) The respective responsibilities of the TSU, on the one
autonomy to effectively implement            hand, and that of IMINAGRI services and other
and manage the project activities.           govemnment entities collaborating with the proposed
project, on the other hand, would be clearly defined in the
implementation manual. Attentive supervision would
ensure that these responsibilities are understood and
fulfilled.
Annex 1: Cell "Components to Outputs"
(i) There would not be any     Modest       (ia) Issuance by Government of instructions setting an
distribution of fertilizer g;rants that      adequate framnework for the free distribution of modern
would disturb the functioning of             farm inputs would be a condition of credit effectiveness;
input markets.
(ib) In the few cases where this might be necessary, such
as in cases of emergency reintegration programs, TSU
would work closely with implementing agencies and
local organizations participating in the project
implementation to ensure that the quantities involved are:
(a) purchased in the local markets; (b) actually used by
the targeted beneficiaries; and (c) not resold in the
market.
(ii) EU would not start a new  Low          (ii) TSU would work with EU representatives and
fertilizer import and subsidy                Government to ensure that any future support to the
program.                                     fertilizer sector is compatible with efforts under the
proposed project that are aimed at promoting a
sustainable private sector-based distribution system.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 15
,  ,,,,. ,s,kgg, 9' ' '""' "-         ''         i;~izati~n ""-ear4
(iii) D)ifficulties with respect to    Modest  (iii) TSU would monitor eventual constraints other than
client screening and credit                 the credit screening and monitoring aspects which are
monitoring would be the main                 being addressed under the proposed project activities. It
reasons preventing local banks and           would take the necessary steps to work with Government,
traders from extending seasonal             local banks, and beneficiaries to ensure their removal.
credit to fanners.
(iv) Increased know how and    Low          (iv) TSU would monitor eventual constraints that are not
access to credit would encourage             addressed under the proposed project activities and work
modem farm input adoption.                   with beneficiaries and concerned entities to remove these
obstacles.
(v) Better conservation and    Low           (v) TSU would monitor farmer response with respect to
marketing skills would encourage             their marketing activities in order to identify any
private traders to enter the                 remaining constraints and work towards their removal.
exchange system.
(vi) Lack of adequate basic    Modest       (vi) TSU would monitor trader investment response and |
infrastructure in rural markets and          work with beneficiaries and other concerned parties to
limited access to credit have                remove constraints that may not be effectively addressed
discouraged investment in                    under the project activities.
marketing services by private
traders.
(vii) Beneficiaries have the   Low          (vii) The capacity to participate financially or in-kind
capacity to participate in financing         would be included in the eligibility criteria of market
and implementation of market                 sites. Training would also be offered under the project
infrastructure improvement                   activities to ensure effective participation of
activities.                                  beneficiaries.
(viii ) TSU would have adequate  Low        (viii) TSU would use subcontracting with qualified local
capacities to implement and                  organizations to augment its capacities to implement
effectively manage the proposed              project activities. Attentive supervision would ensure
activities.                                  that effectiveness of the management system is
maintained throughout the implementation period.
Overall Risk Rating            Low
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 16
G: Maiin Loan Condlitions
1. Effectiveness Condlitions:
*     Initial payment of the equivalent of $100,000 by Government into the project account opened at
BNR for the Input Credit Insurance Facility.
*    Initial payment of the equivalent of $50,000 by Government into the project account opened all
BNR for the remaining project components.
*     Establishment of a Technical Support Unit within MINAGRI and recruitment of staff having
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
*    Adoption by Government of a project implementation manual that is satisfactory to IDA.
*     Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between BNR and Government under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
*     Issuance by Government of instructions, satisfactory to IDA., setting forth an appropriate
framnework for free distribution of modem farm inputs, limiting such distribution to emergency
reintegration and poverty alleviation programs.
-     Establishment of an adequate financial management system that is satisfactory to IDA and which
ensures proper monitoring and execution of project activities.
*    Appointment of the project auditor under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2. Disbursement Conditions
Disbursement for expenditures under the Small Farm Input Credit Facility component would not
start until the Borrower has adopted an adequate framework satisfactory to IDA, including a
manual of procedures detailing the criteria, procedures, guidelines, and standard contracts
applicable to the provision of grants to poor and remote farmer groups for revolving credit funcds
under that component.
3. Other:
None.
H: Readliness for Implementation
1. (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ ] 1. (b) Not applicab.le.
[ j 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start
of project impleinentation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that
would be used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
[X] 3. Tlle LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[  4. Thte following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                     Page 17
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ I 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[x] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
OP 10.02 requires that audit costs be financed as 'operating costs'. However, given the
circumstances prevailing in Rwanda and, hence, the likely detrimental impact of a 95%-financing
on the conduct and timeliness of audits, it is proposed that these be financed by IDA at 100% and
under consultant services.
/se]
Leader: Ousmane Badiane
SectoDr Manager: Joseph    -Dwomoh
[signature]    L       a,         /X.
Country Director (Acting): Emmanuel Mbi



Agricultural & Rurail Market Development Project                                                  Page 18
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
le-ri -( F.  iv- sw .K~ ~ancl"-"  t>r                      iMitaig adCiA?wBims, 
*? n  0?  ? .  >.  > * ? ............................ ........  ?         -?...........   . .   ......... ..... ........ ..... .. .........C .*.
Sector-related CAS goal:  Sector Indicators:             Sector / Country Reports:  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Raise agricultural         1. Higher agricultural yields.   1-3. Anuual update of   (i) Government wouLd continue
productivity and increase    2. Increased output per rural   baseline survey and        economic reforms.
agricultural and rural       household.                      analysis of farm
incomes.                   3. Higher agricultural and        household sector in    (ii) Security situation would not
rural incomes.                 years two and three of     deteriorate.
the project.
4. Higher agricultural growth  4. National statistics.
rate.
Project Development        Outcome / Inpact              Project Reports:           (Objective to CAS)
Objective:                Indicators:
Increased intensification of  1. The quantities of modem  Annial update of baselhie   There would be no other
agricultural production    farm inputs used by           survey and analysis of farm  significant technological
through higher adoption   beneficiary farmers are 25%    household sector in years    constraints that would limit
rates of modern farm       higher than the baseline      two and three of the       supply response to higher input
inputs.                    averages in the It year, 50%    project.                 use.
in the 2d, and 75% in the 3rd
year. (Annex 11, Table 1).
2. Average output among
beneficiary farmers is 25%
higher than the baseline
average in the 1t year, 50% in
the 2`d, and 75% in the 3rd
year (Annex 11, Table 2).
Project Outputs:           Output Indicators:            Project Reports:           (Outputs to Objective)
1. Promotion of input use
and distribution
systems
1.1 Greater efficiency and    1. l(a) The number of modem    1. 1(a) - 1. 1(b) Armual  (i) Govermnent would pursue the
sustainability of private  input importers is 50% higher   update of baseline survey    liberalization of trade, exchange
sector-based input        than the baseline average in   and analysis of input      and investment regimes to
distribution and output    the Ist year, 75% in the 2nd, and  distribution systems; BNR   promote processing, marketing
marketing systems have     100% in the 3 d year (See     reports on line of credit  and export of agricultural
been achieved.             Annex 11, Table 5).           activities; national trade  products.
statistics.
1,.1(b) The volume of modem                              (ii) Road infrastructure
fann inputs imported by the                              deficiencies and weaknesses in the
private sector is 50% higher                             transport sector would not pose
than the baseline average in                             serious constraints to expansion
the It year, 75% in the 2"n, and                         of marketing activities in the short



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                  Page 19
100% in the 3r year (See                                run.
Annex 11, Table 5)
(iii) Improved access to
1. 1(c) Increased private sector  1.1(c) - 1.1(d) Annual  credit would encourage traders to
participation in output      update of baseline surveys   raise modem input imports and
marketing, both in terms of (i)  and analyses of input  extend seasonal credit to farmers.
average level & (ii) geographic  distribution and output
coverage of marketing        marketing systems in year   (iv) Access to credit and better
activities as compared to    two and three of the       perfomniing markets would
baseline (Annex 11, Table 4).  project.                 encourage farmers to increase use
of modem farm inputs.
1. I(d). Increased private
sector participation in input                           (v) Qualified specialized local
distribution, both in terms of                          organizations would be available
(i) average level and (ii)                              to advise and train beneficiaries.
geographic coverage of sales
activities as compared to
baseline (Annex 11, Table 5).
1. 1(e). Reduced costs of input
distribution and output
marketing as reflected in lower 1. 1(e) Quarterly
price margins across local   monitoring reports; FEWS
markets.                     reports; SIM reports.
1.2 Farmers have received   1.2(a). By the middle of the
training on the use of    second year of the project, at
modem iarm inputs and     least 70% of beneficiary      1.2 Quarterly monitoring
managennent of credit.    fanners have received training  reports #6 and #12.
in the use of modem farm
inputs.
1.2(b). At the end of year 3 of
the project, at least 90% of
beneficiary farmers have
received training in the use of
modem farm inputs.
1.3 Farmers have greater    1.3. The amount of input
access to modem farm      credit received by beneficiary
input credit.             farmers is 25% higher than the  1.3 Annual update of
baseline average in the 1 year, baseline survey and
50% hi the 2nd, and 75% in   analysis of farm household
the 3rd year.                sector in years two and
three of the project.
2. Support to local
agricultural marketing
systems
2.1. Farmers' crop        2.1 (a). The quantities       2.1 & 2.3. Annual update   (vi) Improvement in the
conservation and         marketedby beneficiary        of baseline surveys and    marketing environment would



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                  Page 20
M-'' ''-          Y >                 1X 01                                      ,         IE hX-
marketing skills have     farmers are at least 10% higher analyses of output      encourage farmers to enter the
I imnproved; adapted        than the baseline average in  marketing and farm        exchange system and raise
processing technologies   ithe 1* year, 25% in the 2nd,    household sectors in years   demand for modem farm inputs.
are available.           and 50% in the 3rd year       two and three of the
(Annex 11, Table 3).         project.                   (vii) Traders would respond to
easier access to credit by
2.1(b). Adapted technologies                            expanding marketing activities.
ifor processing of agricultural
crops have been developed,                              (viii) Farmers would respond to
tested, and adopted by farmers                          advisory services and greater
and traders.                                            market opportunities with
increased marketed surplus.
2.2. Basic market         '2.2. Improvement of basic
infrastructure in target  infrastructure of agricultural    2.2. Quarterly m onitoring
rural areas has been      marketing sites in at least 7  reports #4, #8, and #12.
upgraded.                 communes per year, for a total
of 21 by the end of project.
2.3. Investment by private   2.3. The amount of credit
traders i-n marketing     obtained by traders for
services has incrcased,  investment in marketing
services is at least 25%, 50%,
and 75% higher than the
baseline average in the I', 2nd
,and 3rd year, respectively
(Annex 1 1, Table 6).
3. Project Technical
Support Unit
Effective implementation,   Timeliness of submission of    Supervision reports     (ix) TSU would have sound
monitoring an,d evaluation   rnonitoring reports; level of                         financial management and
of project, activities are  quality of monitoring and   Annual work programs       effective monitoring and
achieved.                 evaluation activities; level of                          evaluation systems.
quality of financial
rmanagement.                                            (x) TSU would have tlie necessary
autonomy to effectively
implement and manage the project
activities.
Project Components        Inputs: (budget for each                                 (Components to Outputs)
/Sub-components: (see     component)
Annex 2 for project
description)
1. Promotion of iput use   1. US$3.29 million                                      (i) There would not be any
and distribution systems                                                           distribution of fertilizer grants
that would disturb the functioning
1.1 IFarmer access to     1.1 $2.40 millions                                       of input markets.
seasonal creditfor modern dQuerly monitoring 



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                   Page 21
<tt,,,,,,.2,, d, ,,,,,-w . .                                                                             ....- 
farm inputs (through line                                reports                    (ii) EU would not start a new
of credit to input                                                                  fertilizer import and subsidy
importers, input credit                                  Disbursement reports       program.
insurance facility, and
grants from the small                                    Supervision reports        (iii) Difficulties with respect to
farmer input credit facility                                                         client screening and credit
to poor and remote farmers                                                          monitoring would be the main
for the creation of                                                                 reasons preventing local banks
revolving credit funds).                                                            and traders from extending
seasonal credit to farmers.
1.2 Advisory services for    1.2 $0.39 million
adoption of modern farm                                                             (iv) Increased know how and
inputs and access to credit.                                                        access to credit would encourage
modern iput adoption.
1.3 Multiplication and     1.3 $0.50 million
distribution of improved
seeds (technical and
institutional support).
2. Support to local        2. US$1.77 million                                       (i) Better conservation and
agricultural marketing                                                              marketing skills would encourage
systems                                                                             private traders to enter the
exchange system.
2.1 Crop conservation,     2.1 $0.49 million             Quarterly monitoring
processing, and marketing                                reports                    (ii) Lack of adequate basic
technologies (through                                                               infrastructure in rural markets and
technical assistance to                                  Disbursement reports       limited access to credit have
farmers and traders and                                                              discouraged investment in
R&D funding).                                            Supervision reports        marketing services by private
traders.
2.2 Strengthening of rural   2.2 $1.07 million
agricultural marketing                                                              (iii) Beneficiaries have the
poles (through grants and                                                           capacity to participate in the
institutional support to                                                            financing and implementation of
local communities).                                                                 market infrastructure
improvement activities.
2.3 Private sector         2.3 $0.21 million
investment in marketing
services (<technical and
institutional support to
local communities and
traders).
3. Project Technical       3. US$0.55 million
Support Jnit
Effective implementation,                                                           (i) Capacities to implement and
monitoring and evaluation                                                           effectively manage the proposed
ofproject activities are                                                            activities would exist and could
achieved.                                                                           be mobilized by the project.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 22
Annex 2: Project Description
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
The project's main objective is to contribute to the revitalization of Rwanda's agricultural arnd
rural economy by successfully identifying policies and institutional mechanisms: (a) to promote
efficient, private-sector based, local agricultural input distribution and output marketing systems
in order (b) to raise modem farm input use among farmers and thereby the productivity of labor
and hence the level of incomes in the rural sector. Its subsidiary objectives are to test alternative
approaches to:
*     facilitate access by farmers to credit for modem farm inputs;
*    provide technical advisory services to farmers on the use of modem farm inputs;
*     encourage the emergence of a sustainable modem input import and distribution system;
and
     encourage investments by private traders in marketing services in rural areas.
In addition to the technical support, monitoring, and evaluation component, the project would
comprise two complementary major components. Each of these two main components would be
made up of sub-components regrouping sets of activities that reinforce each other:
*  the first of these components would focus on the demonstration of effective and replicable
mechanisms to: (i) significantly and sustainably raise modem farm input use among farmers
and (ii) expand and strengthen the nascent private sector-based input import and distribution
systems; and
  the second component would test strategies to: (iii) provide an incentive framework as well
as technical advisory services that are conducive to greater market orientation among small-
holders, (iv) encourage private sector investment in marketing services, and (v) provide the
technical and institutional support to raise the efficiency and reduce unit costs in rural
rnarketing systems.
The design of the proposed project has been guided by: (a) a detailed analysis of the strategic
issues surrounding the question of agricultural intensification in Rwanda; and (b) a structured
baseline survey, using detailed questionnaires, of the input distribution, output marketing, rural
transport, and farm household sectors. The report on agricultural intensification in Rwanda was
both a complement to the country's agricultural and food security strategies as well as a further
refinement of the work that was carried out by the government of Rwanda to guide the preparation
of a program to proimote agricultural input and output markets. The report analyzed the problem
of agricultural intensification, identified the strategic issues and proposed policy options that have
served as guidelines in drawing the activities of the proposed project. The baseline survey was
carried out by a teanm of enumerators and supervisors under the direction of MINAGRI's Planning,
Studies, and Monitoring Unit between January and February 1999 and covered 8 prefectures
(districts). The survey included randomly selected samples of farm households and output traders
of 200 respondents each. The samples of input traders and rural transporters had each about half
as many respondents. The results of the survey of the constraints to increased supply and use of
modern farm inputs and greater integration of farmers into the market exchange system were used
to fin.etune the design of the activities and mechanisms to be tested under the proposed project.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                         Page 23
1. Promotion of Input Use and Distribution Systems - $3.29 millions
The fertilizer import program of the European Union and donor grants currently constitute the
main source of fertilizer supplies in Rwanda. The EU Program imports fertilizers and sell them to
traders in Kigali through bidding and, at times, at subsidized prices. The program has not worked
satisfactorily due to logistical difficulties and conflicting sales practices, and is being discontinued
this year. There are practically no plans in place to ensure the future supply of fertilizers. The
government, on the other hand, has signaled its intent to discourage the distribution of fertilizer
grants. However, no fornal decision to that effect has been issued yet. The adoption of an
adequate framework for free distribution of grant fertilizers and other modem farm inputs,
including the limitation of such distribution to emergency reintegration and poverty alleviation
programs would, hence, be a condition of effectiveness. Against this background, the specific
olbjectives that are pursued under this component are to: (i) sustain and raise the supply of
mnodem farm inputs, fertilizers, improved seeds, agro-chemicals, and livestock supplies by
promoting the emergence of an autonomous and competitive private sector-based system to
irnport and distribute inputs; and (ii) stimulate demand for and facilitate access by farmers to these
inputs.
Experience in Rwanda and elsewhere in Africa has shown that the great majority of farmers face
serious seasonal liquidity constraints that limit their ability to acquire the necessary amounts of
modem inputs that are required to significantly raise their productivity. Low profit margins
linked to output market deficiencies, lack of collateral, and failing financial (credit and insurance)
markets all contribute to that liquidity constraint. The only exceptions here are in the case of
industrial and other cash crop sectors. Access to input in these cases is frequently facilitated by
the existence of a public or private company which serves as a conduit for credit and which often
also has some degree of control over output marketing channels. In the absence of such an
intermediary system, farmers rarely have the capacity to autonomously raise sufficient credit from
local banks to meet their demand for modem farm inputs.
In the current context of liberalized markets, there is no parastatal in Rwanda to play that role.
Furthermore, a large share of the country's agricultural production consists of food crops that are
marketed directly in local markets and not through companies that could use their control over
sales channels to limit the risk involved when serving as intermediaries for credit. Consequently,
an alternative category of economic agents would have to be found whose business objectives are
directly tied to the level of demand and use of modem farm inputs. The most viable options in the
current context of Rwanda would be: (a) private input traders who, given acceptable risk levels,
would have an interest in selling modern farm inputs on credit; and/or (b) local banks, which
would extend short term credit to farmers to procure these inputs. If successful, activities based
on the above options would go a long way towards improving access to modem farm inputs,
except in the case of poor and remote farmers. The first sub-component of the present component
of the proposed project (farmer access to seasonal credit for modern farm inputs) would,
therefore, include three sets of activities, as outlined below, to test alternative options of
facilitating access to seasonal credit for modern farm inputs: (i.a) a line of credit for importers of
mrodern farm inputs to provide them with the resources and incentives to extend seasonal credit to
farmers; (i.b) a Small Farmer Input Credit Facility to provide grants to groups of poor and remote
farmers for the creation of revolving credit funds; and (i.c) an Input Credit Insurance Facility that
farmers could borrow from to repay seasonal input credit from traders and/or local banks in case
of emergency production shortfall.
Higher rates of intensification require not only better access to credit but also increased supply of
modem farm inputs in local markets and a broad dissemination among fanners of sufficient



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                            Page 24
technical know how with respect to the use of these inputs. Consequently, two additional sub-
components would be added to the present component: (ii)advisory services for the adoption cf
mod'ern farm inpuits and access to credit; and (iii) the promotion of multiplication and
distribution of improved seeds through technical assistance to farmers and traders. The set of
activities under the second and third sub-components would complement the first sub-component
as their activities would ensure the proper use of the acquired inputs and thereby contribute to
reducing the risk of credit default among farmers and hence create incentives among traders and
local banks to extend seasonal credit. It would also seek to raise the profitability of modem farm
inpu.ts and thereby stimulate demand and attract more private distributors into input markets. The
following sections describe the above set of activities that are proposed under the current
component on the promotion of input use and distribution systems
1.1 Farmer access to seasonal credit for modern farm inputs: One element of this activity would
be aL line of credit that would provide to private traders some of the necessary resources anid
incentives to extend seasonal credit to farmers that is tied to the procurement of modem farm
inpuits. The line of credit could be provided to traders at any level of the distribution chain.
However, in order to exclude any eventual misuse of the allocated resources for other purposes
than facilitating farmer access to modem farm inputs through seasonal credit, the line of credit
would be applied alt the source of the supply chain by linking it directly to input imports. The line
of credit would accordingly be made available to private importers of modem fann inputs who
satisfy the eligibility criteria as defined in the implementation manual (See also Annex 9). The
credit would be channeled through eligible financial institutions, with BNR acting as the Apex
institution. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between BNR and the government
defining the functions and responsibilities of BNR and that of participating financial institutions,
under terms and coDnditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
credit. The relatioinship between IDA and BNR would also be defined in a separate agreemenit.
Eligible financial institutions would have to: (i) be duly established and operating under the lavws
of the Borrower; (ii) maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, and the
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of sits
activities; (iii) conduct their affairs, including interest rate policies, in accordance with sound
finanicial principles and practices; (iv) maintain a lending policy, i.e.,prudential and solvency
norms, quality of loan analysis, and distribution of risks, acceptable to the Association and
BNR, and suitable ]procedures, as well as an adequate number of suitably qualified staff to enable
it to effectively appraise the financial, technical, and economic feasibility of the import activities
for which traders are applying for sub-loans. Any local bank, development bank or financial
institution operating in Rwanda may apply for eligibility. BNR would review the application
based on the criteria described above.
Eligible importers would apply for the loan through the usual procedures used by the financial
institutions, which would review these applications using prevailing standard policies ar.d
procedures. Eligible importers would have adequate expertise with respect to the use of modern
farm inputs, have adequate experience in import or distribution activities involving agricultural
inputs or products, possess adequate infrastructure, staff, and administrative and financial
management systems as well as procedures in place to efficiently carry out input import activities.
Private importers would need access to considerable resources to be able to serve as a conduit for
seasonal credit to farmers. Until importers have developed sufficient ties to foreign supply
sources that would give them access to supply credit with terms that would allow them to extend
credit further to their customers, these resources would have to come from local banks. In theory,
there may not be serious foreign exchange or liquidity constraints among local banks to justify a
line of credit for input imports. In practice, however, the perceived risk that is associated with



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                         Page 25
input markets in the context of: (a) small-holder production conditions; and (b) failing rural
insurance markets, in general, puts modem input importers at a disadvantage when competing for
loan resources with other users of commercial credit. Targeted but commercially-oriented lending
thirough a dedicated line of credit would correct the "bias" and facilitate access to resources while
providing the opportunity to financial institutions to better appreciate the market potential and
risk in the modem farm input sector. In order to overcome the obstacles to greater access to
formal credit, the project would work through specialized local organizations to provide advisory
services to farmers with respect to credit use and management and thereby reduce the risk of loan
default, raise incentives for importers / traders and local banks to extend credit, and sustain the
availability of seasonal credit beyond the lifetime of the project. The project would also establish
an Input Credit Insurance Facility that farmers could borrow from in case of emergency
production shortfalls to repay shorter tenn input credits.
Access to the line of credit by input importers would be on a declining basis, in order to attract
entrepreneurs who have the willingness and are in a position to mobilize resources to finance
modem input import and distribution activities beyond the lifetime of the project. Hence, the
contribution of individual importers to the cost of their modem input imports that are funded
under the line of credit would increase with the frequency of their use of the line of credit. In
other words, individual importers would contribute a minimum of 30% of the cost of their first
import project under the line of credit, 45% for the second, and 60% for the third project. The
minimum contribution to the cost of the fourth and any subsequent import project would be 75%.
The use of the frequency of utilization as the basis for calculating the level of contribution by
inidividual traders to the cost of input imports ensures that the contribution does not represent a
significant barrier to entry. This is because first time entrants face the same condition, i.e., the
miinimum contribution of 30% to import costs, whether they start importing in the first, second, or
tihird year of the project. If the level of contribution were to increase automatically over time and
inidependently of how often an individual importer accesses the line of credit, early entrants would
enjoy an advantage over late entrants as the latter would face a higher investment hurdle when
entering the sector. The adopted formula thus would encourage competition as it would keep the
door open for new entrants until the end of the project.
Participation in the line of credit or extension of seasonal credit to farmers would not be
compulsory for importing traders and distributors. Importers would be free to use the line of
credit as far as they need it and are eligible, based on the agreed criteria. The incentives to extend
seasonal credit would come from: (a) the need among importers I traders to compete for market
share; and (b) the institutional support that would be provided under the proposed project to
reduce the risk of credit default. An important requirement for the success of this component
would be the cessation of free distribution of modem  farm input grants that would distort
competition and discourage private sector entry into input markets. The issuance by Government
of instructions setting an adequate framework for the free distribution of modem farm inputs,
including the limitation of such distribution to emergency reintegration and poverty alleviation
programs, would therefore be a condition of project effectiveness. In the rare cases where it might
be necessary, such as under emergency reintegration programs, the TSU would work closely with
implementing agencies, beneficiaries, and local organizations participating in the project
inplementation to ensure that the quantities involved are: (i) purchased in the local markets;
(ii) actually used by the targeted beneficiaries; and (iii) not resold in the same markets,
The risk of loan default is often the main disincentive to providing credit to farmers. There are
two main sources of the risk that is associated with modem farm input credit in small-holder
agriculture: (a) technical and commercial risk due to inappropriate utilization of modem fairn
inputs or failing output markets; and (b) weather / climate related production shortfall in the



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                          Page 26
absence of insurance markets. In order to eliminate the first source of risk, the project would
include: (i) institutional and advisory activities to increase technical know how with respect to
the use of modem farm inputs among farmers (see 1.2 below); and (ii) a series of activities to
promote local marketing systems as described under component 2 of the project. In order to
eliminate the default risk resulting from changing climatic conditions, the current component of
the project would also include an Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF) that farmers could borrow
fromr to repay shorter term seasonal loans in case of production shortfalls that are related to
weather and similar conditions. The Facility would ensure repayment and thus reinforce the
willingness to lend on the part of local banks and input traders. It would operate as an "insurance
scheme" that would protect the nascent input distribution systems from potential shocks in its
early stages that might set back its development. Government would make an initial contributicn
of the equivalent of $100,000 to ICIF before project effectiveness. This contribution would be a
condition of effectiveness. In addition thereto, the amounts that are reimbursed by modem input
importers under the line of credit would be allocated to the Facility to expand its resources.
Furthermore, it is proposed that the interest charges paid by participating banks to BNR under the
line of credit be allocated to the Input Credit Insurance Facility. The initial contribution by
Govemment would allow farmers to make use of the facility to eventually repay their modeim
farrn. input credit, should the need arise, before the first flow of reimbursed funds under the line of
credit become available.
Because it may be more difficult for poor farmers and farmers in remote areas to access credit
through traders or local banks, a Small Farmer Input Credit Facility (SFICF) is proposed which
would provide initial funding to groups of farmers to set up revolving credit funds to finance the
acquisition of modem farm inputs. Initially, farmer groups and cooperatives who do not have the
capacity to manage the revolving credit funds directly may sub-contract to the local branch of the
Banques Populaires the management of the funds, awaiting the reinforcement of their capacities.
Disbursement under that component would be conditional upon adoption by Government of an
adeq[uate framewor]k, satisfactory to IDA, including a manual of procedures detailing the criteria,
procedures, guidelines, and standard contracts applicable to the provision of such grants.
Lending by local banks for input purchases, the provision of input credit by importers / traders,
and cooperative lending by farmer groups are altemative/complementary mechanisms to facilitate
modem input adoplion by farmers that are being tested in parallel. The three mechanisms would
compete directly under the proposed project. The outcome would be monitored very closely and
adjustment made in favor of the mechanism(s) that would contribute more effectively to easing
farner access to input credit.
1.2 Advisory services for the adoption of modern farm inputs and access to credit: Support
would be provided to farmers through a private sector based extension system, including qualified
non-governmental and other local organizations, and producer groups, to accelerate the adoption
of modem farm inputs. The main extension services system that was built around the Directions
Regionales des Services Agricoles (DRSA) has been severely affected by the war. The system has
been rebuilt but at a much smaller scale and currently does not have the human nor material
resources to carry out an effective extension program. The extension activities under the pilot
proj ect would seek to promote a complementary, private sector-based system that would provide
the needed technical advisory services to farmers. In order to facilitate collaboration with the
local DRSAs, the project would allocate a modest financial support to the latter for the acquisition
of a limited number of motorcycles for the technicians that would work with the project teams.
The technical advice should lead to higher profitability of modern farm inputs, which would raise
both. the demand for these inputs and the capacity of farmers to pay for them. Higher profitability



A,gricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                    Page 27
would also raise the creditworthiness of farmers. In addition, the advisory services would include
advice on access to and use of credit to farmers. The project would also collaborate with local
banks to prepare and monitor credit to farmers. The sum of these activities should not only reduce
the risk of giving credit to farmers and hence demonstrate the opportunity to do business with
farmers. They would also contribute to the emergence of local markets for credit advisory
services and monitoring, as farmers and banks discover the value of the services offered under the
project.
1.3 Promotion of multiplication and distribution of improved seeds by the private sector: The
project would provide institutional and technical advisory support through qualified non-
governmental and other local organizations to farmers that are willing to engage in seed
multiplication. The government has launched with support from Belgium a program to breed
imiproved seed varieties. These varieties have not yet found their way to farrmers for lack of an
eifective system of multiplication. The project would work with the above organizations to
provide the necessary technical know how and encourage farmers to engage in seed
multiplication. Depending on the outcome during the pilot project, the activities under the present
anld preceding sub-components would be expanded under the subsequent rural sector support
project to further strengthen producer organizations, which would take more responsibility with
respect to extension and other advisory services, including credit support services.
2. Support to Local Agricultural Marketing Systems- $1.77 millions
The objective of this component is to facilitate the access by farmers to marketing services while
raising the efficiency of rural marketing systems and cutting unit costs of moving goods across
local markets. The proposed activities would improve marketing skills by farmers, improve basic
infrastructure in rural markets, and raise investment in marketing infrastructure and equipment by
piivate traders. They would be carried out under the following three sub-components:
2.1 Crop conservation, processing and marketing technologies: Under this sub-component,
the project would provide technical advisory services to farmers through specialized local
organizations, including producer groups, to improve crop conservation and marketing
techniques. Very few rural markets operate on a daily basis in rural Rwanda. Furthermore,
horticultural products occupy a large share of agricultural production.  Perishability and
conservation are therefore important aspects of agricultural marketing in the country. The project
would provide the necessary training and logistical support to alleviate constraints in this area and
facilitate farners' entry into the market exchange system. Furthermore, the project would provide
funding for the development and testing of adapted processing technologies through specialized
paLrtner agencies.  In cases where such technologies do exist, the project would provide
institutional and technical support to traders and producers to secure credit from local banks for
investment in processing equipment (see 2.3)
2.2 Strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles: Two main activities would be
carried out under this sub-component:  (a) financial assistance through grants to local
communities for the improvement of basic market infrastructure, which would create the
incentives for supplementary investment in storage and other marketing infrastructure and
equipment by private traders; and (b) advisory services to local communities to effectively
manage these sites. The type of market improvement to be undertaken would be demand-driven
and would take into consideration the capacity of beneficiaries to participate in the investment and
subsequently manage the sites. TSU would contract with specialized private sector organizations



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 28
to carry out the infrastructure improvement work and provide the necessary training and
institutional as well as advisory support to beneficiary groups.
The support would include funding for the acquisition of fax machines or other adequate
equipment for market information collection and dissemination in project market sites and
training of beneficiary traders on market data collection and management. Each of the market
sites would be linked through fax to the Market Information System (MIS) based at MINAGRI in
Kigali and which collects market information on local markets around the country. The goal is to
have timely market data on local supply, demand, and price conditions available on a daily basis
in each project market site.
Due to administrative and customary reasons, markets in the great majority of communes operate
mostly on a weekly basis, which practically is equivalent to a rationing of marketing services.
Therefore, one of the eligibility criteria with respect to the selection of zones/communes for
market infrastructure improvement would be the guaranty that markets would operate on a daily
basis.
2.3 Private sector investment in marketing services: In addition to the incentives resulting from
the improvement of basic infrastructure of marketing sites, the project would provide advisory
support services, using specialized local organizations, to facilitate access by private traders,
including producer associations, to credit for investments in infrastructure and equipment for the
storage, processing, transport, and marketing of agricultural products. As in the case of farmer
credit for inputs, the objective of the support is to train beneficiaries to interact effectively with
rural and other commercial lending institutions and profitably manage the investments financed
from the obtained credit in order to ensure repayment. Better access to credit and increased
investment in infrastructure and equipment would allow traders to expand activities and cut unit
cost of operations. The higher efficiency in rural agricultural markets and the increase in the
supply of marketing services would encourage farmers to enter the exchange system and thus
foster intensification.
3. Technical Support, Monitoring, and Evaluation - $0.55 million
A Technical Support Unit (TSU), comprising the project coordinator (PC), an administrative and
financial management specialist (AFMS), and an extension, monitoring, and evaluation specialist
(EMES), plus support personnel, would be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project
activities. All key project staff would be selected on the basis of an open competitive process and
with fixed term renewable contracts. At project inception, the coordinator would be recruited on a
fixed term contract of one year, renewable on a basis of demonstrated performance.If MINAGRI
decides, for reasons of cost-saving, sustainability, and/or capacity-building, to recruit the project
coordinator (PC) or the extension, monitoring and evaluation specialist (EMES) among its staff,
an assessment of the qualification of the considered staff would be carried out before project
effectiveness. Furthermore, any cost-savings would be set aside for the first year of the project
implementation and used for any necessary staffing adjustment in case of unsatisfactory
implementation or monitoring of the project activities. If project implementation is satisfactory,
the resources could be allocated to other uses at the end of the first year.
The project would be implemented primarily through collaboration with specialized non-
governmental and other private sector organizations. The TSU would therefore not include
techmical personnel. The main functions of the TSU would include: (a) coordinating individual
project activities; (b) contracting and supervising the execution of contracts between the project,
the beneficiaries and the specialized local organizations; (c) preparing the project annual work



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                     Page 29
program , annual budgets, accounts and financial statements, progress reports, disbursements
applications and procurement plans and execution; (d) monitoring and evaluation of project
output and outcome, including reporting to Government and IDA on the project's progress and the
lessons learned; and (e) provision of technical advisory services to fanners and traders through
subcontracting to qualified non-governmental and other local organizations, which have
established a sufficient and satisfactory track record. The TSU would operate under the tutelage
of MINAGRI's Directorate of Extension and Marketing (DEM). The respective responsibilities
of TSU and DEM staff with respect to the pilot project would be defined clearly in the
implementation manual in order to avoid interference by the latter with TSU's day-to-day
management functions. At the end of the pilot phase, the role of the TSU would be taken over as
necessary under the wider rural sector program, which would include a component that would be
based on the replicable elements of the pilot project. The full terms of reference of the TSU and
its staff as well as that of the auditor are contained in the project implementation manual.
4. Institutional Arrangements under the Line of Credit and Input Credit Insurance Facility
The Government and BNR would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement by which the
Government would pass on the proceeds of the line of credit component to BNR. BNR would
make the proceeds of the credit component available to eligible local banks at a variable interest
rate that is equal to: (a) the lower of the weighted twelve-month average of the applicable money
market rate over the preceding calendar year or the average inflation rate over the preceding
calendar year plus a commission not to exceed one percent (1%); or (b) such other reference rate
as may be determined by agreement between Govermnent and BNR and satisfactory to the
Association. Given the land-locked nature of Rwanda and the considerable time gap of up to 3
months, between import orders and deliveries of farm inputs, the proposed repayment period for
the sub-loans to be extended by BNR to participating local banks under the line of credit is 15
nonths following the availability of such funds.
There would be no limit to the amount of money individual importers can borrow from the line of
c]redit in any given year or during the lifetime of the project. The only reason for such a constraint
would be to prevent monopolization of the import system. However, for that to happen, a single
irmporter would have to import more than 6,000 tons of fertilizers, using the example of NPK, for
which he/she would have to mobilize more than $1.0 million in order to have access to the entire
line of credit'. Judging from the current annual level of fertilizer consumption of about 2,000 tons
and average import levels by private importers of slightly more than 100 tons, it is highly unlikely
that any individual importer: (i) would venture into an operation of that magnitude; or (ii) find a
local bank that would agree to finance such a risky enterprise.
The IDA-financed sub-loans would be reimbursed both by local banks and their borrowers in
local currency, unless the Government and IDA otherwise agree. These funds would be used to
replenish the Input Credit Insurance Facility described underSection 1.1 above and for which an
account would be open at BNR. In the case of weather-induced or similar production shortfall,
and upon decision by MINAGRI and the TSU, in consultation with IDA, to mobilize the funds
under the Facility, eligible farmers would apply to TSU for credit from the Facility to repay their
seasonal loans. Eligible under the input credit insurance component would be farmers who have
received input credit from importers / traders or local banks and who, because of weather related
or similar production shortfall during the same season for which the input credit was obtained,
were unable to repay their loans. These fanners would have to be receiving advisory services
' Imports of inputs other than fertilizers cannot reach levels that would clain such a large share of the line
of credit.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                Page 30
from the specialized organizations working with project. This last condition is to ensure that the
insurance facility covers only farmers who have acquired or are acquiring the necessary know
how to use the acquired inputs adequately, in which case the technical risk should have been
eliminated, leaving mainly the weather-related risk as the only possible cause of default to be
dealt with. The condition would also eliminate the possibility of abuse or leakage on the part cf
beneficiaries, since the farmers receiving the advisory services and technical support would each:
l have a technical data sheet with the respective partner organization, which will determine:
(i) the land and other assets that they own, (ii) the crops they cultivate, (iii) their expected
yields and revenue, as well as (iv) their borrowing capacity; and
@ a contract with the input importer / distributor or local bank providing the credit that has been
approved by the partner organization on behalf of TSU.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                             Page 31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Rwanda
Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
A. P'romotion of Input Use and Distribution          1251.5         2,000.0          3,251.5
Systems:
(1)  Farmer access to seasonal credit for modern farm  400.0            2.000.0      2,400.0
inputs
(2)  Advisory services for adoption of modern farm   370.7              -              370.7
inputs and access to credit
(3)  Seed multiplication and distribution            480.8              -              480.8
B. Support to local agricultural systems:           1,663.6             -            1,663.6
(1)  Crop conservation and marketing technologies     473.8             -              473.8
(2)  Strengthening of rural agricultural marketing   989.8              -              989.8
poles3
(3)  Private sector investment in marketing services  200.0             -              200.0
C. Technical Support Unit                             530.0             -              530.0
Total Baseline Cost                                 3,445.1         2,000.0          5,445.1
Physical Contingencies                             42.0              -              42.0
Price Contingencies                               125.4              -             125.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 3,612.5         2,000.0          5,612.5
2Includes taxes.



Agricultural & Rural Market Developrent Project                                                         Page 32
Annex 4: Table 1 - Financial Summary
(US$ thousand)
Rwanda
Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
TTTh?                                          2001..g?E  X 
, .B >> ?tBE.? ?. d >.             2000        2001        2002           2003      2004       2005
Project Costs
Investnent Costs            1,839.2     2,093.7     1,527.1
Recurrent Costs                49.3        50.8        52.4          20.0       20.0      20.0
Total                           1,888.5     2,144.5     1,579.5          20.0      20.0        0.0
Financing Sources (% of total)
Project costs:
II3RD/IDA                      90.6        90.4        90.2
Government                      8.9         8.6         9.3
Beneficiaries                   0.5         1.0         0.5          100        100       100
Total Project Financing           100        100          100             100      100        100



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                               Page 33
Annex 4: Table 2 - Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ thousand)
~~ .~~/'~~~6-~~~'   Total ~~~2009                         2901        2002
Beneficiaries Input                112.5         100         33.8        45.0         33.8
Civil Works                        775.9         100        225.9        310.3       239.7
(698.3)       (90)       (203.3)     (279.3)      (215.7)
Vehicles                           90.0          100         90.0          -           -
(90.0)       (100)        (90)         (-)         (-)
Equipment                          99.2          100         84.9         8.0         6.3
(79.2)       (79.8)      (69.9)       (5.2)       (4.1)
Line of Credit                    2,000.0        100        633.0        842.0       525.0
(2,000.0)     (100)       (633.0)     (842.0)      (525.0)
Small Farmer Input Credit Fa.      300           100          95          126          79
(300)        (100)        (95)       (126)        (79)
Input Credit Insurance Facility    100.0         100         31.6        42.1         26.3
Training                           358.1         100        104.3-       143.2       110.6
(358.1)       (100)      (104.3)      (143.2)     (110.6)
Specialist Services                859.5         100        250.3        343.7       265.5
(730.7)       (85)       (212.8)      (292.1)     (225.7)
Surveys/Studies                    75.6          100          -          37.2         38.3
(75.6)       (100)         (-)        (37.2)      (38.3)
Processing Technology R&D          415.2         100         203.0       104.5        107.7
(355.4)      (85.6)      (173.8)      (89.5)      (92.1)
TSU Departmental Costs             223.8         100         72.4         74.6        76.8
(205.2)      (91.7)       (66.4)      (68.4)      (70.4)
Audit                              50.2          100         16.2         16.8        17.2
(50.2)       (100)       (16.2)       (16.8)      (17.2)
Recurrent Costs                    152.5         100         49.3         50.8        52.4
(57.3)       (37.6)      (18.5)       (19.1)      (19.7)
TOTAL                             5,612.5        100        1,888.5     2,144.5      1,579.5
(5,000)       (100)     (1,682.0)    (1,919.1)    (1,398.7)
Amount in bracket: IDAfinancing



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 34
Annex 5: Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management Arrangements
Rwanda
Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project
Capacity Assessment of TSU for Procurement, Disbursements and Financial Management
A small Technical Support Unit (TSU) unit staffed with competent experienced staff, including a
Project Coordinator (KPC), an Extension, Monitoring, and Evaluation Specialist (EMES), and
Administrative and Financial Management Specialist (AFMS) plus support staff will be recruited through
a competitive and transparent process in accordance with tenns of reference acceptable to the Association.
If MINAGRI decides, for reasons of cost-saving, sustainability, and/or capacity-building, to recruit the
project coordinator (PC) or the extension, monitoring and evaluation specialist (EMES) among its staff, an
assessment of the qualification of the considered staff would be carried out before project effectiveness.
Among the support personnel it is envisaged to hire an assistant accountant and a procurement specialist.
Adequate provisions will be made to train the accounting and financial staff. TSU will be established as a
separate entity within the ministry responsible for execution, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Resources, and Forestry (MINAGRI).
1.1  Procurement: It is expected that major contracts for consultants services, furniture of goocls and
equipment and certainly contracts for services will be executed during the first year of the life of project.
MINAGRI/TSU would have the opportunity, based on their appreciation, to hire a procurement specialist
or a procurement agenlt to carry out its procurement activities. In case TSU elects to procure through a
procurernent agent, the assistant accountant will be trained to handle all procurement matters. All
procurernent contracts above established thresholds will be executed by a national procurement agency,
the National Tender Board (NTB), that oversees all government procurement of works, goods and
equipment.
1.2   Disbursement: A computerized accounting and integrated financial management system will be set
up and assessed by IDA as a condition of effectiveness. The system will allow inputs at different levels to
capture all disbursements that will be effected under the project. The system will differentiate between
payment. of expenditures done by the TSU for the project activities and those done by the BNR (Central
Bank) for the payment of letters of credit under the line of credit. Withdrawal applications would be
generated by the system.
Disbursement for expenditures under the Small Farmer Input Credit Facility would not start until the
Government has adopted an adequate framework satisfactory to the Association, including a manual of
procedures detailing the criteria, procedures, guidelines, and standard contracts applicable to the provision
of such grants.
1.3  Financial Management: The project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to
IDA, which will provide the borrower and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources
and expenditures. The financial management systems will include accounting, financial reporting and
auditing elements. A financial management expert has been recruited to assist in the design and
establishment of the financial management systems of the TSU. The Unit will be responsible for project
administrative and technical coordination as well as financial management. The final configuration of the
TSU, the profile of the staff as well as their job descriptions have been described in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). The relevant internal control system, meanwhile, will be determined and
fully described in the Manual of Procedures to be prepared by the financial management consultant. The



AgricLutural & Rural Market Development Project                                   Page 35
establishment by Government of an adequate financial management system, satisfactory to IDA, to ensure
proper monitoring and execution of Project activities would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
1. PFrocurement
2.   Procurement of goods and works required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the "Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Procurement of consultants' services shall be governed by the "Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The following paragraphs describe the
procurement arrangements under the Project.
Contracts for Works (Basic Market Infrastructure Improvement)
TSU will contract with specialized local organizations to carry out works on basic market infrastracture.
3.   Works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract,up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$240,000 equivalent, should be procured through obtaining at least three bids from
eligible specialized local organizations as described in the Manual of Procedures.
Works estimated to cost more than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to anaggregate amount not to
exceed US$776,000 equivalent may be procured by National Competitive Bidding under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the guidelines and as described in
the VManual of Procedures.
The bidding documents shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who makes the lowest responsible offer for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Procurement of Goods (office supplies) and Equipment (vehicles, computers, and other office
equipment)
4.   Given the small quantities of goods to be purchased under the project, it is not envisaged to do bulk
procurement. Consequently no ICB is envisaged. Goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$170,000 equivalent may be procured by National
Cornpetitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA. Contracts under US$50,000 for the
procurement of items that cannot be grouped into bulk procurement and for readily available off-the-shelf
goods would be procured by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers as
described in the Manual of Procedures. Procurement by this methods should not exceed the total sum
of US$220,000 over the project's life. The implementation unit would be required to prepare a
computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon would not be exceeded during
pro ject implementation.
IDA financed contracts above the threshold of US$30,000 for civil works and US$50,000 for goods will
be subject to IDA's prior review. All other goods and works contracts will be subject to post review.



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 36
Procurementfrom UNAgencies
5    Vehicles, computers, and office equipment estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$170,000 may be procured from IAPSO in
accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines
Consultants' Services (training, advisory services, surveys/studies, audit, and non-MINAGRI
TS Ustafj))
6.   Consultants' services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers January 1997 and revised September 1997 and
January 1999. The particular selection methods and the type of services to which they apply are as
follows:
6.1  Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Selection based on quality and cost (QCBS) nonnally involves competition among qualified short-
listed firms by evaluating the quality of the proposal before weighting the quality and cost scores
and adding them. The QCBS method would be used for the selection of consultants for the
following services: (i) advisory services for the adoption of modem farm inputs and access to credit
by farners; (ii) training and demonstration activities to raise farmers' technical know how with
respect to the use of modem farm inputs; (iii) technical training and advisory services to encourage
farmers to engage in seed multiplication; and (iv) technical training to promote improved crop
conservation processing, and marketing techniques among farmers. Short-lists for contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be comprised of national
consultants.
6.2. Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
(a)  Least-Cost Selection. For audits of a standard nature and design of marketing poles
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, these may be procured
by selecting the firm with the lowest cost provided its technical proposal receives a
minimum qualifying mark for quality based on pre-established criteria.
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services for technical advisory
services and institutional and logistical support to producer groups for multiplication
and distribution of improved seeds, crop conservation, management of local
agricultural marketing poles, feasibility studies, and extension that are estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts
based on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment.
(c)  Individual Consultants. Services for studies and surveys which can be delivered by
individuals, would be selected through comparison of qualifications among individual
consultants expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly.
6.3 Review by the Bank of Selection of Consultant
(a)  Selection Planning. Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals,
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be
fumished to the Bank for its review and approval



AgricLltural & Rural Market Development Project                                    Page 37
(b)  Prior Review. (i) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, (ii) with respect to each
contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been
given.
6.4  Post Review
All other contract will be subject to post review. Documents related to procurement below the prior
review thresholds will be maintained by the Borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA
supervision missions
2. Disbursement
Disbursements would be in accordance with the Bank's Disbursement Handbook until a transition to
PMR-based disbursements is made. The project is expected to be completed over a three-year period, by
December 31, 2002 and the credit is expected to be closed by June 30, 2003.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
1.   Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts below the equivalent of
US$30,000 for civil works and individual consultants, and US$50,000 for goods and consulting firms, as
well as for all operating costs and training. As modem farm input imports are not subjected to prior
review, disbursement for all imports financed under the line of credit will also be on an SOE basis. For
such contracts, the borrower would be allowed to submit withdrawal applications based on statement of
expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documents for such applications would be retained by the Technical
Support Unit (or BNR for line of credit expenditures) and made readily available for review by periodic
IDA supervision missions and external auditors. All expenditures related to contracts above the
equivalent of US30,000 for civil works and individual consultants, and US$50,000 for goods and
consulting fims would be fully documented (no SOE use).
Special accounts
2.   To facilitate payment of expenditures by the project, two special accounts in foreign currency
would be established at BNR (Banque Nationale du Rwanda), one for the line of credit and one for the
remaining project activities. IDA would make initial estimated deposits from Credit immediately after
effectiveness of $200,000 into the line of credit special account. Once a total of 500,000 SDR has been
disbursed under the line of credit, a supplemental advance of $100,000 will be made bringing that special
account's total advance up to the authorized allocation of $300,000. For the TSU special account, an
initial deposit of $100,000 will be made and once disbursements for related project components total
SDR 500,000, the remaining balance of $100,000 of the authorized allocation of $200,000 will be made.
Minimum Value for Direct Payments and Special Commitments
3.   Direct payments and requests for issuance of special commitments must total at least 20% of
the total advance outstanding. In other words, when BNR's special account is initially at $200,000, no
direct payments or special commitments of less than $40,000 will be made. (This threshold will rise to
$60,000 once the entirety of the authorized allocation is paid.) For the TSU special account, the initial



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                    Page 38
minimumn value for direct payments and special commitments will be $20,000, rising to $40,000 once the
entire initial allocation is made.
Project / Counterpart Account(s)
4.   Two project accounts for Government counterpart funds would be opened at BNR, one to
receive the initial contribution of the equivalent of $100,000 by Government into the Input Credit
Insurance Facility and aL second account to receive the revolving funds from the line of credit that are
destined for the Input Credit Insurance Facility.
5.   Government would open an account at a Bank that is agreeable to IDA to receive its annual
contribution to the project costs other than the Input Credit Insurance Facility and would make an initial
payment of the equivalent of $50,000 before project effectiveness. Besides the in-kind contribution of the
estimated equivalent of $129,000 through the participation of its extension services in project activities,
Government contribution would include the following additional payments into the above account: (i) an
amount equivalent to $33,100 no later than six months after the beginning of the First Project Year; (ii) an
amount equivalent to $90,300 no later that one month after the beginning of the Second Project Year; and
(iii) an amount equivalent to $98,200 no later than one month after the beginning of the Third Project
Year.
Flaw offunds
6    The line of credit account would be managed by BNR which would pay all expenditures
under that component from that account. Expenditures under the Input Credit Insurance Facility and the
remaining; project activities would be paid by TSU from the respective accounts. TSU and BNR would
ensure that all disbursements are effected in accordance with Bank procedures.  TSU will have
responsibility for the production of the annual consolidated financial statements, including for the line of
credit account. BNR will submit the relevant statements to IDA through the TSU.
3. Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The Project Technical Support Unit (TSU) will maintain the books and accounts of the project activities,
except for the line of credit, which would be managed directly by BNR. The latter will maintain a pioper
accounting of the utilization of the line of credit and submit annually to TSU statements of activities.
TSU will then be responsible for the production of the consolidated annual financial statements, including
for the line of credit account. A financial management expert has been appointed to design a
computerized accounting and financial management system, based on internationally acceptable
accounting principles agreed with the Bank.  The consultant will also prepare the accompanying
accounting manual, including a proper chart of accounts, the various transaction cycles, the format,
content and periodicity of the various financial statements to be produced, the budgetary procedures and
process (preparation, monitoring, variance analysis, etc.), and the relevant internal controls. The manual
will be agreed to by IDA. The consultant will be responsible for the initial training of the accounting and
financial management staff on the efficient operation of the computerized accounting system. They will
also be responsible for the preparation of a training program in financial management withL an
implementation timetable for the duration of the project. The selection of the accounting software will
ensure that the system is Y2000 compliant and supported by a reliable organization.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 39
Before project effectiveness, a Bank Certified Financial Management Specialist will carry out an
assessment of the project financial management system (adequacy and competence of the accounting and
financial staff, relevance of the manual of procedures, completeness of the accounting system) to
determine its soundness and capability to provide IDA accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures.
Project Management Reports
The project was appraised in May 1999 and needs to adopt a financial management and reporting system
in compliance with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). It has been agreed, therefore, to
design the financial management system so that it can produce, in addition to the basic financial
statements (Balance sheet, Income statement, Sources and Applications of Funds), other relevant quarterly
financial management reports, namely:  (i) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Contract
Expenditures Report - Goods & Works; (iii) Contract Expenditures Report - Consultants;
(iv) Procurement Management Report - Good & Works; and (v) Procurement Management Report -
Consultants, required under PMR-based disbursement. Since the Technical Support Unit (TSU) will be
newly established and the capacity of accounting and financial staff has yet to be developed and tested,
disbursement will be SOEs-based for the first 18 months of implementation. It is expected that full PMR-
based (Quarterly PMRs) will start in the third quarter of the second year of implementation till closing a
year and a half hence. This will require that IDA carry out a comprehensive and detailed assessment of
the project financial management to determine its full readiness for PMR at the end of the first year of
implementation. A second assessment will be carried out at the end of the second quarter of the second
year of implementation to evaluate and effect the transition to PMR-based disbursement
4. Auditing
Project records and accounts, including the line of credit and the ICIF revolving funds accountswill be
audited in accordance with international audit standards by an experienced and intemationally recognized
audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA within 4 months after the end of
Government fiscal year. In addition to their standard short-form report with opinion, the auditors will be
required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well as the intemal control
procedures goveming their preparation for the relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion
thereon; and (ii) review the management and utilization of the special account and express a separate
opinion thereon as well; (c) the auditor will complete their in-depth review, started at interim, of the
internal control system of the project with a view to identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and
proposing practical recommendations for improvement. The results of this review would be documented
in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit report.
The financial auditors will also perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review the
intemal control system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect within one
month from the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports will be
addressed by management without delay before the final audit (mostly 3-4 months after closing of the
fiscal year of the project). The contracting of auditors on a multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and
certification by the financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational, is a condition of
credit effectiveness.



Agricuttural & Rural Market Development Project                                                  Page 40
Annex 5, Table 1. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements4
(US$'000 equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.g .  ..........-.; --,, ... d..t-;.
1. Civilworks             535.9        240.00     112.5                      888.4
(465.6)     (232.7)                                (698.3)
2 Goods                    70.0        119.2    2,000.0                     2,189.2
(70.0)     (119.2)   (1,900.0)                  (2,089.2)
3. Services                          2,382.5                                2,382.5
(2,175.2)                            (2,175.2)
4. Miscellaneous                                   152.4                      152.4
(37.3)                     (37.3)
Total                  605.9      2,741.7    2,264.9          0          5,612.5
(535.6)    (2,527.1)   (1,937.3)       0          (5,000)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured such as, consultancies under trust
funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
1/ National Competitive Bidding or IAPSO
2/ National Shopping
3/ Other: Beneficiary contribution, line of credit, and input credit insurance fund
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed through the IDA credit.
'For details on Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations."



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                              Page 41
Annex 5, Table 2. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review5
(US $ thousands)
1. WORKS               LessthanUS$30           NS                      Postreview
Equal or more than     NCB                     Prior review
US$30
Comparison of at least    Prior review (1 to 5
three quotations        contracts)
aggregagate:US$776
2. GOODS               Equal or more than      NCB/IAPSO               Prior review aggregate:
US$50                                          US$220
Less than US$50        National Shopping       Post review
3. SERVICES
3.1 Consulting fims    More than US$50         QCBS + Short list       Prior review
Technical evaluation
Aggregate:US$600
Less than US$50         QCBS + Short list      Post review
Consultants'           (except for TORs)
qualification
Less than US$50        LCS for Audits advisory  Prior review
services               Technical evaluation
Aggregate:US$100
3.2 Individual         More than US$30         Comparison of at least 3   Prior review
Consultants                                 CVs                     aggregate:US$0
Less than US$30         Comparison of at least    Post review
3CVs                   (except TORs)
4. MISCELLANEOUS
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                      $1,696 or 30% of total cost
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) for
the first year and 12 month(s) hereafter (includes special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits)
5 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                 Page 42
Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
- -!-t:i: :t.  ':....................... -:.;:- _.5           .................  ,.; : i-:-
.. ,~~~~ ..... .... -;., ....    ..     ..... . .. . .. ...  .... .E .b  .....  . .    ... . .... . . ...Mj. ...........
?r'  c SceSl                                            Plne                     Act.'-'.'' ,',a-;l~1
Time taken to prepare the project (months)             6 months                6 months
First ]Bank mission (Identification)                  10/31/1998               11/27/1998
Appraisal mission departure                            4 / 7 /19 99           04 / 18/19 99
Negotiations                                           5 /7 /19 99             06 /17/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          8 / 1 /19 99             / /1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and Forestry
Preparation assistance: TF027015, Japanese Grant (PHRD), Agricultural Sector Support
TF036850, Swedish General Consultant Trust Fund
TF037242, Swiss Special Studies Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Ousmane Badiane                                      Senior Agricultural Economist, Team Leader
Siaka Bakayoko                                       Financial Analyst
Hassane Ciss6                                        Counsel
Ousmane Cissoko                                      Principal Financial Analyst
Desire Coquillat                                     Financial Management Specialist
David Freese                                         Disbursement officer
Francois Kanimba                                     Senior Economist
Azra Lodi                                            Program Assistant
Prosper Nindorera / Eavan O'Halloran                 Operations Analysts
Boukari Tare                                         Environmental Analyst
Ren6 Welter                                          Procurement Specialist



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                         Page 43
Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                                            Page 44
AnnexY 8: Statement of Loans and Cred i'ts
StatuS of Bank Group Operations in Rwanda
Operations Portfolio
Numbert of) Clo ea rojcs 3orwr                                s
Active Projects
RW-PE-2238        1990   GOVERNMENT                          TRANS.SECT.                                  0.00        85.00         0.00        47.70           .11        17.33      S           S
RW-PE-'2245       1991   GOV.OF RWANDA                       SECOND COMMUNICATION                         0.00        12.80         2.66          1.27         4.39         1.56      S           S
RW-PE-2237        1991   GOVERNMENT                          HEALTHI & POPULAIION                         0.00        19.60         0.00          4.68         4.46         3.73      S           S
RW-PE-2242        1991   GOVT.                               EDUCATION SECT.CR.                           0.00        23.30         0.00          2.98         3.79         3.79      5          NR
RW-PE-2261        1992    GOVT OF RWANDA                     FOOD SEC & SOCIAL AC                         0.00        19.10         0.00          1.38          .97        -3.26      5           5
RW-PE-2241        1993    GOVT OF RWANDA                     ENERGY SECTOR                                0.00        26.00         7.00          6.84        14.42         0.00      U           U
RW-PE-2262        1994   GOVERNMENT                          PRIVATE SECTOR                               0.00        12.00         0.00          3.91         4.08         0.00      5            5
RW-PE-57294       1999   GOR                                 EC.REC.CREDIT                                0.00        75.00         0.00         71.01         0.00         0.00
RW-PE-51931       1999   GOV. OF RWANDA                      CRDF                                         0.00         5.00         0.00          4.86         -.03         0.00
Total                                                                                                     0.00      277.80          9.66        144.63       32.19         23.15
Active Projects       Closed Projects           TOtW
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                     120.61               515.64               636.2 5
of whils has been repaid:                         0.00                 38.03                38.03
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                     268.14               449.96               718.10
Amount sold                                           0.00                 4.38                  4.38
Of which repaid      .0.00                                                4.38                 4.38
Total Undisbursed       .144.63                                              .63               145.26
a. hIntended disbursements to dste miinus actual disbursements to dale as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio perfornance (ARPP), aletter based system was introduced (15= highly Satisfactory, S =satisfactory,U   unsatisfactory,RU=highly unsatisfactory): see
proposed Imnprovcnessts in Project and Portfolio Perfonsmnce Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                         Page 45
Annex 9: Eligibility Criteria
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
The criteria that individual beneficiaries have to meet to be eligible under the current project are
as follows:
Criteria for Local banks:
* Be duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
* Maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, and the organization, management,
staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its activities;
* Conduct its affairs including interest rate policies in accordance with sound financial
principles and practices;
Maintain a lending policy acceptable to the Association and BNR and suitable procedures and
an adequate number of suitably qualified staff to enable it to effectively appraise the financial,
technical, and economic feasibility of the import activities for which importers are applying
for sub-loans.
Criteria for Importers:
* Be a legal entity registered in Rwanda and able to enter into a legally binding contract;
'.  Have adequate expertise with respect to the uflization of modem farm inputs, adequate
experience in the importation or distribution of agricultural products or inputs, within or
outside Rwanda;
I Have adequate infrastructure and personnel;
* Have adequate administrative and financial management systems and procedures in place to
execute contracted activities; and
Have no legal dispute or debts which would materially affect the institution's ability to
undertake the project.
Criteria for Farmer Access to the ICIF:
* Be registered with a specialized local organization working with the project and conduct
farning activities with the support and under the supervision of such an organizations;
* Have obtained with the agreement of TSU or its designated representative an input credit from
importers / traders or local banks, as evidenced by a signed contract approved by TSU or a
specialized local organization on TSU's behalf; and
*  Have faced drought or weather-induced production shortfall in the same season for which
input credit was received.



AgrcLiltural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 46
Criteria for Specialized Local Organizations:
*  Be a legal entity registered in Rwanda and able to enter into a legally binding contract;
*  Have a minimum of 2 years of working experience (within and outside of Rwanda) in the
implementation activities that are similar to those that are proposed under ARMDP;
*  Hiave adequate infrastructure and personnel to carry out the project;
*  Have adequate administrative and financial management systems and procedures in place to
safe guard the use of ARMDP resources; and
*  lHave no legal dispute or debts which would materially affect the institution's ability toD
undertake the project.
Criteria for project ,market sites:
* Be a major trading zone or has clear potential to become one;
*  Demonstrated capacity of beneficiaries to participate in infrastructure investment; and
* Guaranty that improved market site would be open on a daily basis.
Geographic Focus
The ARMDP would be active first in the regions and districts of Rwanda that have been covered
by the survey that was carried out under the preparation of the proposed project. Other regions
will be added as the project activities proceed. The ARMDP would co-ordinate with other donors
so as to avoid duplication and overlap in the respective areas of operation.
Beneficiary Group
To be eligible for consideration, any activities presented to the ARMDP must target the following
beneficiary groups:
*  Modem Farm Input Importers;
*  Modem Farm Input Distributors;
*  Individual farmers;
*  Agricultural Proclucer Groups / Associations; Agricultural Cooperatives;
*  Private Traders of agricultural products or their associations; and
*  Local Communes.
Financial Restrictions
The following budget restrictions and financial guidelines would govern ARMDP activities:
*  No repayment period under the line of credit should exceed a maturity of fifteen months;
* At. no time, would the ARMDP provide funding to a local organization in excess of 50% of
the organization's previous year's annual budget;



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Projed                                               Page 47
For basic market infrastructure improvement sub-projects, beneficiaries would provide no less
than 10% of the estimated costs of the sub-project in the form of cash, materials, labor or -
other services; and
Up to a maximum of 10% of the total ARMDP's proposed budget would be allocated for
"institutional" costs including administrative costs, overheads, general equipment which do
not directly benefit the beneficiaries groups.
Criteria for selecting specialized local organizations
Specialized local organizations would be selected based on the criteria listed below.  Their
proposed activities would be reviewed and evaluated based on a set of technical criteria, general
and specific:
Institutional criteria: including number and types of personnel, available infrastructure and
physical resources to carry out project activities, financial management and administrative
systems, years and types of experience, project value relative to overall finances, etc.
Project coherence: including specificity of project objectives and links to proposed ARMDP's
activities in achieving the proposed end results.
Financial criteria: appropriateness of proposed inputs and unit costs; conformity with standard
specifications and applicable market rates; and substance in agreement with guidelines.
Sustainability criteria: including level of community participation in project implementation,
level of local knowledge or skill required for implementation, potential income generating effects
of project.
Social criteria: including understanding of the social characteristic of the beneficiary community
and region.
Environmental criteria: including identification and mitigation of potential environmental
impacts of the proposed activities, in particular natural resource exploitation, fertilizers and
pesticide use, and road transport safety.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                     Page 48
Annex 10: Environmental Analysis
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
1. Project Overview
With a demographic growth rate of 3.1 per cent per annum and made mainly of rural population, the
demand for land and renewable natural resources is taking a great toll on the country's natural resource
base and the physical environment is significantly degraded. The average temperature is 18 degree
Celsius with an annual rainfall of about 900 to 1600 mm. The country's agricultural production has
declined despite the huge extension of areas under cultivation. The situation has been exacerbated by the
1994 war and genocide.
The objective of the pilot project is to speed up the intensification of agricultural production and thereby
raise productivity in the, sector and the rest of the rural economy by promoting input distribution and
output marketing systems. This would be achieved through a rational use of modem farn inputs and a
sound management of natural resources. The main components of the project are:
1. Promotion of input use and distribution systems through:
(a) fanner access to seasonal credit for modem farm inputs;
(b) advisory services for adoption of modem farm inputs and access to credit; and
(c) multiplication and distribution of improved seeds.
2. Support to local' agricultural marketing systems:
(a) crop conservation and marketing technologies;
(b) strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles; and
(c) support to private trader investmnent in marketing services.
2. Environmental Analysis
The required environmenital assessment reflects the concern of the Government for sustained use of the
nation's resources, whichi constitute the basis of the national economy. The environmental assessment of
the proposed project was therefore conducted in compliance with the Bank's Environmental Assessmaent
Safeguard Policy, OP/BP/GP 4.01.
The proposed project is classified as Category B. The possible negative effects of the project as a whole
are small compared to its positive effects. However, potential negative impacts need to be addressed by
ensuring strict compliance with the recommendations made in this respect. Land tenure, extensive
agricultural practices and input transport safety should be a focal point and mitigated measures need to be
devised despite the fact that the aggregate environmental impact is expected to be moderate.
The enviromrental analysis was carried out by an intemational expert supported by local consultants.
Scoping sessions were orgalnized to consult with Government agencies and beneficiaries in the Butare and
Kigali regions. The analysis put considerable emphasis on deteTmining the relationships between the
increase in production and input use and the potential impact on the affected populations, and soil and
water resources. An important finding of the analysis is that the environmental protection component
would need to be carried out according to the type of crops and soils, as well as fertilizer and pesticide



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 49
requirements as follows: (a) set up a training and monitoring system to prevent abuse in fertilizer and
pesticides usage, pollution of ground water and soil salinization, due to unsafe activities particularly mi
wetlands; (b) design training activities on health and hygiene aspects to prevent the proliferation of
agricultural and fertilizer-related diseases in areas where fertilizer and pesticides are intensively used; and
(c) conduct an awareness program on input transport safety. In addition to the above component, a routine
set of environmental protection activities relative to vegetation and soil improvement should be designed
and effectively implemented by producers with the assistance of local organizations, local and national
research institutes, and the agricultural faculty of Butare's University, under regulations established and
agreed upon by both the Ministry of Soils Resettlement, and Environment Protection and the Ministry of
Agriculture.
3. Mitigation Plans
The EA has determined that the benefits of increased intensification for farmers and the Rwandese
economy far outweighs the potential negative impact. Positive effects are in terms of increased food
production and food security, deforestation prevention, diversification of production and diets, a lessening
of pressure on lands and rural exodus, higher incomes, and improvement of living standards. Farmers
have expressed considerable and unanimous interest in producing more higher-value crops. Potential
negative effects of the Project do exist and should be taken into consideration during the project
implementation phase. These effects differ by type of production techniques and across project
components. Effects related to fertilizer and pesticides usage could be important in areas where farmers
are already growing crops intensively. Also, the risks are higher for components dealing with input
distribution and transport. Furthermore, most rural areas lack the necessary preventive measures to
mitigate health risks. Traffic accident during input distribution could be one important negative impact.
The main potential, environmentally negative effects under the proposed project are related to input
misaLpplication and transport. Thus, it is important that soil fertilization practices and transport safety
management and awareness be included in the advisory services activities to ensure better soil
regeneration and prevention of road transport accidents. Fertilizer and pesticides use should be monitored
and their effects assessed before any expansion of the project activities into fragile land areas.
The environmental analysis has made a comprehensive inventory of all environmental problems
encountered in the project area. This is based on observation and records from discussion and previous
reports on similar studies. The proposed mitigation plans include technical, institutional and legislative
recommendations.  The technical measures include standard procedures to prevent or control
agrochemical pollution, input transport related impacts, combined with a strong emphasis on information
campaigns to make farmers and their employees more aware of disease risks involved in intensive
agricultural activities and fertilizers and pesticides usage. In many cases there are non-governmental and
other local organizations that can work with the project management, in addition to national agriculture
research institutes, the National University, and private consulting firms. The project management could
also hire local organizations with extensive experience in natural resources management to monitor all
environmental issues generated by the project's upstream and downstream activities. These organizations
should be provided with limited external support and basic logistics to carry out such routine activities.
The implementing agency should work in close collaboration with specialized private firms and research
institutes to help enhance producer knowledge on how to protect the environment under the targeted
intensification activities.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Page 50
4. Recommendations
The most important concern associated with agricultural activities in a mountainous and densely
populated country like Rwanda is the negative impact on soil degradation, wetlands water resources
pollution by agrochemicals, and overexploitation of arable land. There is a weak institutional link
between e.xisting agriculture practices and preventive public health. Health authorities are usually notified
when there is a problem. Therefore, there is a clear need to include training activities on the safe usage of
agrocheiricals targeted to producers and their employees. A inventory of natural resources and wetland
water resources would be required to ensure that appropriate preventive measures can be undertaken. It is
recommended that the Goverment of Rwanda support the reinforcement and the management of a natural
resources monitoring system, establish input road transport safety measures, and support efforts to
encourage community based natural resources management, safe handling of pesticides, and the fair use of
fertilizer lto stop soil erosion and deforestation.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                         Page 51
Annex 11: Overview of Survey Results of Input Use, Fertilizer Distribution, and Rural Marketing
Systems
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
1. Scope of the Survey
During project preparation, a structured rapid survey of the farm household, crop marketing, input import
and distribution, and rural transport sectors was carried out using detailed questionnaires. The survey was
administered by a team of 25 enumerators and supervisors under the supervision of MINAGRI's Planning,
Studies, and Monitoring Unit (DPES) between January and February 1999. The total sample included 200
farm households, 200 output traders, 100 transporters, and 85 input distributors. The survey covered all
major agro-ecological zones of Rwanda as well as all major zones of with significant surplus or deficit of
agricultural production, which are normally characterized by higher levels of trading activities.
Accordingly, it was implemented in the following zones:
Zone 1: Kibungo/Kigali rural;
Zone 2: PVK/Gitarama;
Zone 3: Butare/Gikongoro;
Zone 4: Cyangugu;
Zone 5: Byumba.
2. Overview of Survey Results
As stated above, the survey was carried out in early 1999. Most of the questions that were asked in the
questionnaires, therefore, referred to the year 1998. Hence, the large majority of figures that are quoted in
this section refer to that year.
2.1  The Fanning Sector. The most important aspects of fanning activities among small-holders that the
survey sought to capture are: (i) production pattems; (ii) level and determinants of use of modem farm
inputs, i.e., agro-chemicals, improved seeds, and fertilizers; and (iii) crop marketing activities by farmers,
including quantities and prices. Tables 1-3 of this annex summarize the survey results on production,
input use, and crop marketing activities. Overall, less than one third of farners use fertilizers. The
highest frequency of use is found among farmers in the PVK prefecture, around the capital, where 50
percent of farmers use fertilizers. According to the survey results, the main constraints with respect to the
use of modem farm inputs are the following, in order of importance:
1) high prices and weak purchasing power;
2) limited availability of fertilizers and other inputs in local markets;
3) insufficient technical knowledge; and
4) (leficiencies of distribution systems.
The most important among the policy measures that are suggested by the farmers to help them get better
access to modem farm inputs and raise the use of these inputs are:
a) grants and free distribution of inputs;
b) better access to input credit;



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                          Page 52
c) improve availability of inputs in local markets;
d) strengthen local distribution systems;
e) provide extension and technical support.
The first component of the proposed project, "Promotion of Input Use and Distribution Systerms",
addresses the four main obstacles to increased modem farm input use that have been identified through the
survey. The proposed activities under that component of the project consist in a well articulated set of
incentives and institutional mechanisms that reflect the policy options outlined above, with the exception
of the first option (a), which due to fiscal and sustainability reasons had to be excluded. Moreover, by
strengthening local distribution systems and improving access to seasonal credit, the proposed activities
would el.iminate the need for free distribution of input grants. Even though 17 percent of farmers declared
that they do not need credit currently, the share of those who have demanded credit is well belcw 10
percent. In these rare cases, half of the credit that was demanded was used for seeds, fertilizers, and
equipmenit. The main source for this credit has been local banks, with a share of 43 percent. The large
majority of those, who do not apply for credit, cite the lack of collateral and burdensome formalities as the
main reasons.
As to the sale of agricultural crops, farmers have identified the most important obstacles that they face
currently, again in order of importance, as being:
1) low sales prices;
2) lack of market outlets;
3) low marketable surplus; and
4) lack of means of transport.
The policy options that rank as top priorities from their point of view with respect to supporting their
marketing activities and expanding their participation in the exchange system, hence speeding up
commercialization are thie following:
a) strengthen local marketing systems;
b) control output prices;
c) improve access to transport services;
d) provide technical support to raise production levels; and
e) improve local marketing infrastructure.
The constraints to greater market participation by farners are addressed in the second set of activities that
are proposed under the project component "Support to Local Agricultural Marketing Systems". These
activities either correspond directly to the policy options listed above or to altemative measures that
would have similar effects but are more sustainable and consistent with the context of a liberalized
agricultural sector. For instance, farmers have proposed price controls because they expect such measures
to lead to higher and more stable prices. By facilitating access to credit by traders for investment in
marketing services and by providing technical support for better management of marketing activities and
dissemination of market information, thereby encouraging competition in the marketing sector, the project
would have the same effect on prices without the economic costs that are associated with direct price
intervention.
2.2.  The Crop Marketing Sector: The survey of the crop marketing sector included 200 traders in 20
markets across the country. One the objectives of carrying out the survey was to leam directly from the
beneficiaries, what the main constraints to operation of local agricultural marketing systems were.
Furthermore, the survey has also tried to gather from local traders information and suggestions as to how



Agrcultural & Rural Market Development Project                                               Page 53
these constraints could be overcome. Table 4 summarizes the main characteristics of agricultural
marketing activities by private traders in terms of average quantities marketed and geographic coverage.
The figures indicate that beans, potatoes, and sorghum are by far the most traded crops. The numbers on
geographic coverage also show that traders operate within relatively limited zones, with the exception of
traders in urban Kigali and Gikongoro. Based on the results of the survey, the main constraints output
traders face in carrying out marketing activities are the following:
1) low procurement capacity due to low capital and higher output prices;
2) lack of transport vehicles; and
3) high level of taxation.
About three-quarters (73 percent) of traders declare that they would like to expand their trading activities.
Two-thirds of these traders cite the limited access to credit as the main reason that has prevented them
from doing so. Table 6 shows that only about a quarter of traders have applied for credit during the period
covered by the survey (1998) and only half of those have received the credit. Although access to credit
appears as the most important constraint facing traders, the policy options proposed by the latter include
several other issues. The most important among the issues to be target by policies, according to traders
are thLe following:
a) facilitation of access to credit;
b) improvement of market infrastructure;
c) training to strengthen business management skills; and
d) facilitation of acquisition of transport vehicles.
The survey results have also shown that there is not enough competition among traders in local markets.
Slightly more than a quarter of the trader sample perceive competition in local markets to be high. Given
the strong desire to expand marketing activities among local traders, the project, by easing access to credit
and providing advisory services to strengthen traders' business, should significantly contribute to the
development of rural markets. The development of markets should not only support the objective of
accelerating agricultural intensification but would also contribute to development of other post-harvest
activities, such as processing, by ensuring a steady supply and broad availability of crops, not only across
space but also over time.
2.3. The Input Distribution Sector: The input sector survey sample included a total of 85 distributors.
Table 5 of the current annex presents the overview of distribution activities by input traders during the
year 1998. More than three quarters of the surveyed traders are involved in input distribution throughout
the year, and input trading represent the main occupation for more than half of the sample. hiput traders
have identified the following constraints with respect to their distribution activities:
1) ]Low purchasing capacity of farmers;
2) lack of means of transport;
3) heavy taxation;
4) weak farm extension and technical support systems; and
5) limited access to credit.
The large majority of input traders, about 85 percent, would like to expand their distribution activities and
cite the limited access to credit as the primary reason of why they have not yet done so. About 40 percent
of traders would like to expand area coverage by opening up new distribution points. A quarter would like
to have access to credit to expand into wholesale activities. The most important changes in the operating



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                          Page 54
environment that input distributors feel would allow them to significantly expand their trading activities
are the following:
a) improvement of farm extension and technical support systems;
b) easier access to credit; and
c) elimination of input subsidies and grants.
The problem of input subsidies and grants has now been solved, as government has taken the decision to
stop the subsidization or free distribution of inputs, except in emergency cases and for demonstration
purposes in association with extension activities. The formal confirmation of that decision would be a
condition of effectiveness of the project. The constraint related to taxation could be removed if
government would accept to eliminate the 15 percent turnover tax (ICHA - Impot sur les Chiffres
d'Affaires) on input trading as well as the custom inventory fee (MAGERWA) of 4 percent that is applied
to imported inputs, primarily fertilizers. It should be noted here that very few countries, if any, would
apply taxes of such a magnitude to modem agricultural inputs.
The remaining constraints and proposed policy measures are all reflected in the activities that are planned
under the first component of the project. The line of credit for modem input importers would ease access
to credit for input distributors, of which 60 percent have not used credit in 1998. The level of interest rate
has not been a significant constraint to access to credit. Rather, the lack of collateral and limited
informalion have prevented input traders, about one third, from demanding credit. For another third,
demand for credit has been limited due to the low level of trading activities. Consequently, as many as 44
percent of input distributors finance their trading activities using their own resources.
The dedicated line of c:redit for modem input imports, in combination with the provision of institutional
support and technical advisory services to raise input demand, should accelerate the development of the
input distribution sector, given the strong desire among traders to expand their activities both in terms of
level as well as area coverage. Two-thirds of the distributors have entered into a formal contract with at
least one supplier, in most cases an importer. Hence, by facilitating access to financial resources by
importers, the project would also ease the access to credit by other operators in the sector, while higher
input demand would provide the incentives to expand activities. Furthermore, close to 70 percent of
distributors are producer groups (60%) and non-governmental organizations (10%), a fact which shiould
facilitate the administration and monitoring of seasonal credit.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                      Page 55
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
Annex 11, Table 1. Use of Improved Seed and Fertilizers among Farm Households (1998)
02;$5. -Beans  Price  Manioc    Price      Maize      Price      Urea    Price    NPK          Price
$;<i t (kg)    (FRw/kg)    (kg)    (FRw/kg)    (kg)    (FRw/kg)  (kg)  (FRw/kg)  (kg)        (FRw/kg)
Butare        1.8      296.0        0          0          .7       200.0
Byunmba       5.8      218.7       4.9       176.7       12.5      81.5       1.1       150.0      11.4     228.9
Kibungo       8.2       166.3      3.0       341.7        0          0         0          0         0         0
Cyangugu      3.6       164.3      3.6       235.5       0.5       96.7       10.2      153.0      12.2     162.5
Gikongoro     1.4      264.7       3.2       260.0      26.5       136.5      1.6       131.4      3.0       143.3
GitairLara    3.8      240.9       1.5       425.0      26.6       153.0      0.8       150.0      0.2      290.0
Kigali-rur    2.7      223.3       25.0       45.2       2.8       100.0      0.3       120.0      0.7       122.0
Kigalh-urb    3.6       153.3       0          0         0.50      100.0      2.2       116.7      3.0       120.0
Total         3.9                  5.2                   8.8                  2.02                 3.8
Averaige
% of users    46                    13                   17.5                  13                  16.5
Source: Project Preparation Survey, December 1998 -February 1999.
I The per capita quantities are for the entire sample, including farmers who have not used modem seeds or fertilizers; Prices are in
Rwandese Francs.
"--" Nlissing values.
Annex 11, Table 2. Crop Production by Farm Households (1998)
CAv -.              ., --a..
25i;m-:    Beans  Potato  Manioc         Banane         Sorghum
Butare                 40           120          2530             --             40
Byumba                 20           190           10             530             50
Kibungo               120          1130           140            750             60
Cyangugu               30           150           70             150             10
Gikongoro              20           330            0             220             10
Gitamara               20           180           70             260             20
Kigali-rur             30           180           220            690             30
Kigali-urb             20           820           80             290             0
Total Sample           37           387          390             361             27
Source: Project Preparation Survey, December 1998- February 1999
"--" Missing values.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                                 Page 56
Annex 11, Table 3. Marketed Output by Farm Households (1998)
'~~~~~~~~~~~                .. :: : .- .......x.' . "' "  ''''   : ?  .   .   ..... -  ..    .. ........ :? : 
.>.  .   ...... -     -  -?. 
Beans       Price      Potato      Price      Manioc       Price      Banane       Price      Sorghum        Price
(kg)     (FRwlkg)    (kg)    (FRw/kg)          (kg)     (FRw/kg)       (kg)     (FRw/kg)        (kg)      (FR-iv/kg)
Butare          8.8        200.0       33.0        9.50        50.0        15.0         0           0           29.8        135.0
Byumba          30.8       136.0       184.0      21.43        7.9         70.0        98.6        40.0         13.4        79.4
Kibungo         64.3       159.7       76.5       25.00        30.0        47.0       137.0        22.1         19.2        206.7
Cyangugu        12.6       101.8       30.8       16.00        57.0        41.2        55.9        12.9         20.C        55.0
Gikongoro      25.3        173.3       138.6      20.14         0           -         162.8         --         25.C         100.0
Gitainara       8.1         90.0       45.3       39.19        86.7        58.0        46.2        38.8         12.8        130.0
Kigali-rur      8.2        170.0       72.5       21.00        85.3        50.0       535.0         --          9.7         75.0
Total          29.8          -         86.2         -         66.2          -         164.1         -           15.3          -
Average
Source: Project Preparation Survey, December 1998 - February 1999.
"--" Missing values.
Annex 11, Table 4. Private Sector Participation in Agricultural Output Marketing
;i -- S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:.:.        ...  ....                                              . ... :.   : ..... .......
m                                              .   A   >   '   '  .   .:: ' , >: ' . .,: ....... ., . . . ...... ... ., ,, ..... , j ; .... .   . . . . . . .
:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~ ......'',..,...,
Beans       Potatoes       Sorghum        Onions       Peanuts       Rice        Average        Average
(tons)       (tons)         (tons)         (tons)       (tons)      (tons)      Distancel    Quantities2
(kmn)         (tons)
Butare            10.7          48.0            1.0           1.6          0.0           0           60.9           3.6
Byumba            13.9          22.1           18.2           3.8          0.8         24.4          42.8           6.1
Kibungo           61.0           3.5           28.9           9.9          1.06        20.0          26.6           0.7
Cyangugu           6.2          12.6           14.9           3.0          1.45         7.5          88.1           2.1
Gikongoro         12.7          19.1           23.5           0.0          0.0          1.2         128.6           3.1
Gitamara           8.5          13.5            4.5           0.0          0.5          2.9          44.1           0.9
Kigali-rural       6.5          15.0            9.7           1.2           1.1         7.4          33.7           0.8
Kigali urban      22.5           0.0            0.0           4.8          14.4         4.2         130.0            1.0
Avemrpge           17.8         16.6           12.5           3.0          2.4          8.5          69.3           2.3
Source: I'roject Preparation Survey, December 1998 - February 1999
I Average distance between main procurement and sales markets.
2 Average quantities transported between these markets.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                      Page 57
Annex 11, Table 5. Private Sector Participation in Agricultural Input Distribution
5I ,": ...,,g. ... riov' 
i N1PK   Urea        Seeds2         Average distancel         Average quantitiesl
. . 5 5..s..~s   (tons)-  (tons)  (cg)                (Iam)                     (tons)
-5"R'5'55'5'':5"'m5555'''5'g5;g5'5:'^'';:g.550              MNPK             Urea        NPK         Urea
Butare                 2.20        1.2         1.56          135            135          7.7        3.8
Byunba                 0.10        0.06       0.01           15             19           2.1        0.5
Kibungo                0.03       0.00        0.00           37             0.0          0.1        0.0
Cyangugu               1.20       2.32        0.00          258             298          15.9       21.4
GiCongoro              0.50       0.26        0.04           73             69           10.5       2.1
Gitamara               0.08       0.03          *
Kigali-rurul           0.08       0.08        0.00           29             29           3.7        1.7
Kigali-urban          129.20      33.90       0.08            2             0.0         50.0        0.0
Sample average3        16.67      4.73        0.21           102            120          8.7        6.4
(0.52)     (0.49)      (0.02)
Number of traders       61         34          24            41             21           41          21
Quantities Imported4   674         154         0.3
Numnber of Inporters     5          4           1
Source: Project Preparation Survey, December 1998 - February 1999
1 Average distance between main procurement and sales markets and average quantities transported.
2 Cauliflower seeds are the only type of improved seeds that were relatively widely distributed.
3 Number in parentheses represent averages without Kigali urban.
4 hmports by private traders outside of the EU program
* Less than 0.01
Missing values
Annex 11, Table 6. Access to and Use of Credit by Traders (1998)
Butare                10                100                6                400                 12
Byumba                33                67                18                287                 12
Kibungo               15                67                 6                51                  18
Cyangugu              20                33                11                29                  11
C;ikongoro            20                33                 8                 9                  9
Gitarnara             17                20                4                 167                 4
Kigali-rur            30                83                 6                190                 S
Kigali-urb            30                67                15                52                  5
T'OTAL                23                53                 8                130                 10
Source: Project Preparation Survey, December 1998 -February 1999.
I Average amount of loan among applicants who have received credit.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                       Fage 58
Annex 12: Capacities of Specialized Local Organizations.
Rwanda
Agricultural & Rural Market Development
Co:mpared to many other African countries, Rwanda has a large number of specialized organizations
that are involved in local and rural development. A recent survey/study carried out by CCOAIB (C onseil
de Concertation des Organisations d'Appui aux Initiatives de Base), a network of specializecd non-
governmiental organizations, has identified a total of 51 organizations that are involved in rural
development6. All these organizations have their headquarter or a local office in Kigali, a f act that should
facilitate the work with TSU. From a legal/institutional point of view, all are non-profit organizations
governed by the law of'April 25 1962. Three categories of these organizations can be distinguished:
* locad branches of international organizations, which make out 20 percent of the total;
* organizations that are affiliated to local churches, which represent 16 percent of all organizations; and
* independent organizations, which make up the rest.
Area of activities and Experience. Because of their work at the grass-root level and direct involvement in
agricultural and other rural development activities, specialized local organizations have gained recognition
both in the rural and urban areas as critical actors in the fight against poverty and for economic betterment
in rural areas. As shown in Figure 1, about one-third of the organizations are involved in training
activities. About a quarter each are dealing with community development and business prornotion
activities, while nearly 20 percent are active in the technical and advisory services. Furthermore, Figure 2
shows that half of the organizations have more than 10 years of experience in the area of environmnent and
rural development. Another 30 percent have work experience ranging between 5 and 9 years.
Institutional, Human Resources, and Technical capacities. The assets that specialized local organizations
would bring to the proposed project are: (i) proximity to beneficiaries and familiarity with their realities;
(ii) strong experience with respect to participatory approach in the implementation of develcpment
activities; and (iii) amjple know how in dealing with poverty alleviation, income generation, and natural
resources conservation activities in rural areas. Forty-three of the 51 organizations included in the
CCOAIB survey together have more than two-thousand employees, of which about two-thirds have high
school level education. This ratio is estimated to be 3 times higher than that of the public sector. The
organizations are also well equipped, with an average of 10 vehicles and 6 computers per organization, or
one vehicle and one computer for every 5 and 9 employees, respectively. Only 6 of the surveyed
organizations have no vehicles, while 5 have no computers.  Here again, the specialized local
organizations appear to be better equipped than the public sector in general. Furthermore, 32 of these
organizations, for which financial information is available, had an aggregate annual budget in 1997 of
FRw 7.8 billions, that is about $25 millions or 10 percent of the annual budget of the Rwandese
government. The annual budget for individual organizations ranges from FRw 2.00 millions ($6,000) to
FRw 1.60 billions ($5.00 millions).
6 CCOAB Potentialites des ONG d'environnement-developpement dans la mise en oeuvre de l'Agenda 21
National: Inventaire, analyse, et evaluation de leurs capacites et contraintes institutionnelles, techniques et
fmancieres. Kigali, Decembre 1997.



Agricultural & Rural Market Development Project                                                            Page 59
Fig.l: Experience of Specialized Organizations            Fig.2: Activities of specialized Organizations
Experience (numbers of years) of Specialized                  Area of Activity of Spedcalized Local
Iocal Organizations                                         Organizations
Other
SPOforl-4            SPOfor20-                             Technical              Communtty
ye ars              40 years                              Support              Development
20%                  16%                                   18%                    24%
SP O fo r 5 l      _      P  PO for 10-19                    Trail   nt repreneur
years                        years                          35%                       23%
30%                          34%35/
Source: CCOAIB. Potentialites des ONG d'environnement-developpement dans la mise en oeuvre de l'Agenda 21
National: Inventaire, analyse, et evaluation de leurs capacites et contraintes institutionnelles, techniques et
financieres. Kigali, Decembre 1997.



Annex 13: Rwanda at a Glance                                      1011/98    Page 60
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Rwanda    Afhica  income        Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (mdlions)                       7.9       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/as method. USS)                   210       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      1.7      309       722                       T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        1.7       2.7      2.1
Labor force I(6)                                     2.3        2.6      2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                           primary
Most recernt estimate (latet year available, 1991-97)                            capita             ..        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  51
Urban population (% of total population)               6        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      42        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lve births)              125        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of chiklran under 5)            29         ..       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 ..       44        71
Illiteracy (5I of population age 15+)                 40        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  82       75        91                  Rwanda
Male                                                83        82       100                  Low-income group
Female                                              81        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997   1
Economic ratios
GOP (US$S billions)                         0.67      1.9       1.4      1.9
Gross dome,stic investment/GDP              13.8    15.9       10.3     10,8                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           14.6    12.6       630       5.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   9.0      8.3      -9.7     -7.5
Gross national savings/GDP                  16.5    14.1        4.2     -0.8
Currentaccountbalance/GOP                    2.8    -3.1       -.6    -11.5       Domestic
Interest paymenWGDP                          0.0      0.3       0.4      0.5      Detic                      Investment
Total debVGDP                                7.2    22.1       79.8     62.5      Savigs                      Ie n
Total debt service/exports                   2.7      8.2      19.5     33.5
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      49.7     33.2
Present value of debVexports                  ..       .     776.3    528.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 51      -4.6    12.0       10.9      7.2                  Rwanda
GNP per capita                      1.8    -5.2      5.4       -5.6      4.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       6.1    -10.5    42.6       24.8     12.5                                       __
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                            _
1976    1986       1996     1997   1 Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 54.1    41.8       38.2     37.5
Industry                                    20.8    25.7       23.8     26.0   1 50 t
ManufactuLring                            13.5    17.7       16.7      19.0           °       -
Services                                    25.1     32.5      38.0     36.5     .,      92    93-    95  96   97
Private consumption                        74.3    79.7        99.8     98.7      o 100-
General govemment consumption               16.7    11.9       10.0      8.9   jGDI    -                      DP
Imports of cloods and services              19.4    20.2       26.1     24.2                     GG
197646  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%l
(average annual grotwth)
Agriculture                                  3.1    -5.4       12.0       7.8    100
Industry                                     7.2    -4.3       15.9     16.4      5
Manufactuijng                              6.8    -1.3       15.1      16.6
Services                                    10.2    -3.8        9.3      9.8       a
92                        94 ~s/9 7
Private consumption                          5.4    -0.7        6.1     20.2    -so
General govemment consumption                3.3    -4.6       24.7     -2.6
Grossdomestic investment                    11.7   -10.3       26.1     28.3    IDO0
Imports of goods and services               10.6      4.7       5.1     45.3                -Exports          l -mports
Gross national product                       5.1    -4.5       10.8      10.8                      _
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Agricuiltural & Rural Market Development Project                                                                     Page 61
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domesbic prices                                                                     eo
(% ch6nge)
Consumer prices                                7.2     -1.1       7.4       6.0    401 
Implicil GDP deflator                         -1.9     -7.0       9.7      18.6
20
Government rinance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    13.8       16.6      17.7             92   93   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                           ..     2.3       3.5       6.3              -GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -6.6       -6.1      -2.8 
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Exportand import levels (USS millions)
(US$ mlillions)
Total exports (fob)                           114       186        62        87     600
Coffee                                         ..    143         43        45
Other agriculture                             ..       20         9        20     400
Manufactures                                   ..      10          1        2
Total imports (ci)                               ..    323        257       299
Food                                                   38        51        55     200
Fuel and energy                                        55        27        31
Capital goods                                          8          4        6
Exporl piceindex(1995=100)                      ..    11i          91       124          91   92   93   94   S5   95   97
Import pice index (1995=100)                    ..      69        103        97              a Exports      EImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..    162         88       128
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio(%)
(US$ minDions)
Exports of goods and services                 122      230         84       110      5T
Imports of goods and services                 154      403        363       451
Resource balance                               -32     -173      -279      -341      o -
Net income                                      -4     -11        -15       -12
Net cuirrent transfers                         54       124       202       138     -5 .
Currerit account balance                        18      -60       -92      -215    -10
Financing items (net)                           -8       -8        93       216
Changes in net reserves                        -10       68        -1        -1    -15
Memcl:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         64      162        107       153
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/USS)              92.8     87.6     306.8    301.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           48      430      1,111     1,164
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0   |F:420                                      1
IDA                                          21      195        536       558                 F 2
Total debt service                               3       20        17        39           E: 137
IBR.D                                         0        0          0         0
IDA,                                          0        2          8        10
_: 558
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        0          0         0
Official creditors                           23       71         53        64         D: 361
Private creditors                             0        -5         1        30
Foreign direct investment                     0        0          0         0
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0         0                        c: 40
World Bank program
Commitments                                   6       81          0        50     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 8       37         43        53     B - IDA   0- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0          4         5     C -IMF                        G - Short-term
Nel flows                                     8       36         39        48                                       ------
Interest payments                             0        2          4         4
Nel transfers                                 8       35         35        43
Development Economics                                                                                                  10/1/98



MAP SECTION



2030'                               2900                                393230'                             3dOO'                                38030'
-1°oo                                                                                             !,                                                                                 <.
)                 UUGANDA                         I    M
RWANDA                             --i                      , 8                ta  .,  .AX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T TA N Z A N I A|
RWANDA                                                                                                                                                TNAA
DEM. REP2  -
NATIONAL CAPITAL                              OF CONGO                  2   '                                                                 , K
K, LI                                                           tiATIONAL
,iC  PREFECTURE C DAPITALS  REU                                                                           Y                   G ,A ("('9'  O04Ra
COMoMUNE BOUNDARIES
MAIN ROADS                            -- ,    I.,,jj;
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
M"  LoKo        ng
Ktn  .E .   , ..'''
1115~~~~~1
ikongoro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~<r
Cyan,u                                                                                     L,y~Jofl~~3?0
2130'~ ~                                ~                                    9'.                                                        AT
URUNDI ~ ~     ~             ~            ~             ~           ~            ~           BRUD
ONG   Sorn9"9' s~o  ()IKANl   DE.RURUNTDIO09OfXP9'dYt~O
OFCONGO<                                                        r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS 0  5  113 15 20 25 313 35 40 45 50    d:ooolo oos ...ominatioao  0
;a  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     O       ON       O                                                                                                                     nd ayoher inf-orion shown on 
this map do otipyon the part '1
9OAMIUE                                                                                                MILES 0    5    113  15  211  25   30       Th WorldBank Graoqp,noy'' jogm
on the legal sltlo  of an  terto.     or
219POO                              2                                   3"3o                                36':m`  .,ydorsement or acceptan- of soch 



