Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3270 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 16, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3270 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1999, between the RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part A.1 of the Project will be carried out by Banque Nationale du Rwanda 
(BNR) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to the BNR part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BNR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a Commune (as hereinafter defined) or a Rural 
Community-Based Group (as hereinafter defined) to which or for whose benefit a Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made;  
(b)
“BNR” or “Banque Nationale du Rwanda” means the Borrower’s Central Bank, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law of April 24, 1964, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement (“BNR Statutes”); 
(c)
“Commune” means a legal entity of the Borrower, established pursuant to 
the Law of November 23, 1963, as amended to the date of this Agreement, on Communal 
Organization, to exercise limited jurisdiction over a designated area within the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(d)
“DPM” means the Directorate of Monetary Policy of BNR; 
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means, in respect of the Special Account (as 
hereinafter defined) for Part A.1 of the Project, Category 3 set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in respect of the Special Account for 
the Project, other than Part A.1 thereof, Categories 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 set forth in the 
table in Paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means, in respect of the Special Account (as 
hereinafter defined) for Part A.1 of the Project, the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Category; and in respect of the Special Account for the Project other than 
Part A.1 thereof, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 
(a) (ii) and (iii) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible 
Categories; 
(g)
“First Project Year” means the period of twelve (12) months following the 
Effective Date; 
(h)
“Franc Rwandais” and “RF” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(i)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower, represented by 
TSU, and a Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under which the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be made available to such Beneficiary or a Partner Agency for the 
purpose of financing a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
through TSU (as hereinafter defined), to a Beneficiary, for the purpose of financing 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.5 or B.2 a) of the Project; 
(k)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations; 
(l)
“ICIF Account” means an account opened in the books of BNR in the name of 
the Borrower where the amounts referred to in subparagraph 3.01 (c) (iii) of this 
Agreement will be deposited;  
(m)
“ICIF” means the Input Credit Insurance Facility to be made available by 
the Borrower to farmers pursuant to subparagraph II.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n)
“Import Trading Enterprise” means an enterprise which meets the 
eligibility criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement 
and to which a PFI proposes to make or has made a Subloan; 
Page  3
(o)
“Import Trading Project” means a import operation for modern farm input 
to be carried out by an Import Trading Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(p)
“MINAGRI” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources, and 
Forestry of the Borrower; 
(q)
“Participating Agreement” means any agreement entered into by BNR and a 
PFI pursuant to Section 3.01 (c ) (i) of this Agreement, whereby BNR will relend funds 
to said PFI for Subloans; 
(r)
“Partner Agency” means a non-governmental or other public or private 
entity established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, selected in 
accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph I.4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to assist TSU (as hereinafter defined)  in the implementation of the 
Project or Beneficiaries in the preparation or implementation of Sub-projects (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A.5 or B.2 (a) of the Project; 
(s)
“PFI” or “Participating Financial Intermediary” means any development 
bank, commercial bank or financial institution registered in the territory of the 
Borrower as may be designated by BNR on the basis of the eligibility criteria 
specified in paragraph II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and with which BNR 
shall have entered into a Participating Agreement;
(t)
“Project Account” means either or both the accounts referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and BNR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
(u)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred in Section 6.01 
(c) of this Agreement and comprising the policies, procedures and guidelines which 
shall be followed by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project; 
(v)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(w)
“Rural Community-Based Group” means: (i) any group of two or more traders 
or farmers residing in a rural commune that organizes itself for the purpose of 
submitting and implementing a Sub-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.2 (a) 
of the Project; or (ii) any group of two or more farmers residing in a rural commune 
that organizes itself for the purpose of submitting and implementing a Sub-project (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A.5 of the Project; 
(x)
“Second Project Year” means the period of twelve (12) months following 
the end of the First Project Year; 
(y)
“Special Account” means either or both the accounts referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(z)
“Subloan” means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by a PFI to 
an Import Trading Enterprise for an Import Trading Project out of the proceeds of the 
Credit;
(aa)
“Sub-project” means: (i) a rural agricultural market infrastructure 
improvement activity proposed by a Commune or a Rural Community-Based Group, within 
the scope defined in Part B.2 (a) of the Project and financed or to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit through a Grant extended under Part B.2 (a) of the Project; 
or (ii) a farmer cooperative lending activity proposed by a Rural Community Group, 
within the scope defined in Part A.5 of the Project and financed or to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit through a Grant extended under Part A.5 of the Project; 
(bb)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BNR pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(cc)
“Third Project Year” means the period of twelve (12) months following the 
Page  4
end of the Second Project Year”; and 
(dd)
“TSU” means the Technical Support Unit established within MINAGRI for the 
purposes of management, coordination and monitoring of the Project in accordance with 
subparagraphs I.1, I.2, I.3, and I.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Import Trading Enterprise under a 
Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Import 
Trading Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested; (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by 
the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a 
Grant Agreement to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
Sub-projects to be financed under Parts A.5 or B.2 (a) of the Project, and in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (iii) expenditures 
made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project, other than Parts A.1, A.5 and B.2 
(a), and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2009 and ending May 1, 2039.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  5
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. BNR is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of 
Part A.1 of the Project for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Description of the Project Use 
of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Parts A (other than Part A.1 thereof), B and  C of 
the Project 
through MINAGRI, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with 
appropriate financial, environmental, 
technical, and agricultural practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources 
required for the Project and, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement; 
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause BNR to 
perform all its 
obligations set forth in the Project 
Agreement, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BNR to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
Page  6
shall carry out Parts A (other than Part A.1 thereof), B and C of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall relend 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category 3 of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to BNR under a subsidiary loan agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and BNR (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.  Except as the  
Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the 
following:  
(i)
an undertaking by BNR to make loans to PFIs under Participating 
Agreements to 
be entered into with each PFI for financing Import 
Trading Projects under Part 
A.1 of the Project, under the terms and 
conditions specified in Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement;
(ii)
an undertaking by BNR that the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
relent to each 
PFI at a variable interest rate equal to: aa) the 
lower of the weighted 
twelve-month average of the applicable 
money market rate over the preceding 
calendar year, or the average 
inflation rate over the preceding calendar year 
plus a commission 
not to exceed one percent (1%); or bb) such other reference 
rate 
as may be determined by agreement between the Borrower and BNR and 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(iii)
an undertaking by BNR to collect and deposit in the ICIF Account, 
for the 
benefit of the Borrower, all payments of interest and 
repayment of principal 
from PFIs under Subloan agreements after 
retaining an amount not exceeding one 
percent (1%) of the outstanding 
principal from the interest paid by PFIs or 
such other amount as may 
be determined from time to time by agreement between 
the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
(iv)
an undertaking by the Borrower to bear the foreign exchange risk.
(d)
For the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall exercise 
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
1.
for purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, open a Project Account (Project Account 
A) at BNR on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association: 
(a)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into Project Account A, in 
an amount equivalent to $100,000 to finance the Borrower's initial contribution to the 
Page  7
ICIF; and
(b)
use the funds deposited in Project Account A exclusively to finance 
expenditures under Part A.2 of the Project;
2.
for the purposes of the Project other than Parts A.1 and A.2 thereof, open and 
maintain a Project Account (Project Account B) at BNR on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
make an initial deposit into such account, in an amount equivalent to 
$50,000, to finance the Borrower's contribution to the Project (other than Parts A.1 
and 2 thereof);
(b)
thereafter make the following deposits into Project Account B as follows: 
(i) an amount equivalent to $33,100 no later than six months after the beginning of 
the First Project Year; (ii) an amount equivalent to $90,300 no later that one month 
after the beginning of the Second Project Year; and (iii) and an amount equivalent to 
$98,200 no later than one month after the beginning of the Third Project Year; and
(c)
use the funds deposited in Project Account B exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project (other than Parts A.1 and A.2 thereof).
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen (18) months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
Page  8
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
BNR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that BNR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
(c)
BNR Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of BNR to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BNR or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  9
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Accounts and deposited therein the 
initial amounts referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has established TSU and appointed thereto staff having 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with 
subparagraph I.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and BNR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNR in accordance with 
its terms; 
(e)
the Borrower has issued ministerial instructions, satisfactory to the 
Association, setting forth an appropriate regulatory framework for free distribution 
of modern farm inputs, including limiting such distribution to emergency reintegration 
and poverty alleviation programs;  
(f)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Association, to ensure proper monitoring and execution of Project 
activities; and 
(g)
The Borrower has appointed an auditor with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BNR, and is 
legally binding upon BNR in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and BNR, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNR in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance and planning is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 158
Kigali
Rwandese Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
22687MINFIN-RW
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  10
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Eugene S. Kayihura 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit  
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment
    130,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
(2)
Consultants' services
  1,015,000
100%
and Audits
(3)
Subloans under Part
  1,495,000
100% of amounts disbursed
A.1 of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating
     45,000
75% during the First
costs
Project Year; and 40%
during the Second Project
Year
(5)
Training
    260,000
100%
(6)
Grants
100% of amounts disbursed
(a) under Part A.5 of
    255,000
the Project
(b) under Part B.2(a)
    470,000
Page  11
of the Project
(7)
Unallocated
    160,000
TOTAL
  3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, office space rental and utilities, special account banking charges, 
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, travel and supervision 
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(b)
in respect of a Grant under Part B.2(a) unless the Grant has been made in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria and terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Paragraph III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in more detail in the 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(c)
in respect of a Grant under Part A.5, until the Borrower has adopted  an 
adequate framework, satisfactory to the Association, including a manual of procedures, 
establishing the criteria, procedures, guidelines and standards contracts for the 
provision of Grants under Part A.5; and unless such Grant has been made in accordance 
with the eligibility criteria and terms and conditions set forth in such manual of 
procedures; and 
(d)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services (firms and Partner Agencies) 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iii) consultants’ services 
(individuals) under contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent; (iv) expenditures for 
Sub-projects, under contracts not exceeding $30,000; and (v) Import Trading Projects, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in US dollars two separate special deposit 
accounts, Special Account A for Part A.1 of the Project and Special Account B for 
Parts A (other than A.1 thereof), B and C of the Project, in its Central Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into said Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Page  12
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
Page  13
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in respect of Special 
Account A, an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Category, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Category, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 500,000; and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, an amount 
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $100,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Category or Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to said Category or Categories, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to said Category or Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said  Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s 
Page  14
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $450,000 in respect of 
Special Account A and $300,000 in respect of Special Account B.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s efforts to revitalize 
the agricultural and rural economy within its territory through the identification and 
testing of alternative policies, incentive systems and institutional mechanisms to 
promote an efficient, private-sector based, local agricultural input distribution and 
output marketing system with the view to raising modern input use among small-holder 
farmers and the level of productivity and income in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Promotion of Input Use and Distribution System 
1.
Improving farmer access to seasonal credit for modern farm input, including 
fertilizers, agro-chemicals, certified seeds, and livestock supplies through the 
opening of a line of credit to be made available by BNR to PFIs for the purpose of 
providing financing to private importers of modern inputs in order to facilitate 
extension by the latter of input sales credit to farmers. 
2.
Support of lending activities to farmers through the establishment and operation 
of a lending facility (the Input Credit Insurance Facility (ICIF)) with funding to be 
made available to farmers to repay shorter term seasonal credits in case of emergency 
production shortfalls due to climate conditions or similar natural causes. 
3.
Improving and promoting the use of modern farm input by farmers through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training to increase their technical 
knowledge of such input and the use and management of credit for such input.  
4.
Promoting the multiplication and distribution of improved seeds through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training to farmers.
5.
Promote farmer cooperative lending activities through the provision of Grants to 
farmers’ groups for the establishment of revolving credit funds to finance the 
acquisition of modern farm input. 
Part B:
Support to Local Agricultural Marketing Systems 
1.
Improving crop conservation, processing and marketing techniques among 
small-holder farmers through the development, testing and dissemination of new 
techniques and the provision of training to farmers.
2.
Strengthening of rural agricultural marketing poles through the provision of: 
(a) Grants to Beneficiaries for the implementation of Sub-projects designed to improve 
basic market infrastructure; and (b) technical advisory services and training to Rural 
Community-Based Groups to strengthen their capacity to manage rural marketing sites. 
3.
Support to private traders’ investment in marketing services through the 
Page  15
provision of technical advisory services and training to traders and producer groups 
to facilitate their access to, and management of, credit from local banks for 
investment in infrastructure and equipment for storage, processing, transport and 
marketing of agricultural products.
Part C:
Technical Support, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Management, supervision and coordination of project activities through 
acquisition of equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies for TSU. 
2.
Monitoring and evaluation of project activities through the carrying out of: (i) 
updates of baseline surveys and other studies to closely monitor and evaluate the 
Project’s output and outcome; and (ii) audits of the Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by  December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works under Part B.2 (a) of the Project estimated to cost more than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $776,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
2.
National Shopping  
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000 for the entire duration of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles, computers, and office equipment estimated to cost more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 may be 
procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Page  16
Small works required under Part B.2 (a) of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $240,000 
equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines. The bidding documents shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project (other than Part A.1 thereof) 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or more, or for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for training and technical support to farmers and Rural 
Community-Based Groups under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing under Part C of the Project and for the design of 
marketing poles under Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  17
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Technical advisory services to producer groups for multiplication and 
distribution of improved seeds under Part A of the Project and for crop conservation 
and management of local agricultural marketing poles under Part B of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for studies and surveys under Part C of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning  
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
I.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain within MINAGRI, during the 
implementation of the Project, a TSU which shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Project other than Part A.1 thereof; and (ii) at all times maintain 
within TSU, staff with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, including a coordinator, an administrative and financial management 
specialist, and an extension/ monitoring and evaluation specialist.
2.
TSU shall be responsible for: (a) coordinating individual Project activities; 
(b) contracting and supervising the execution of contracts between the Project, 
Beneficiaries and Partner Agencies; (c) preparing the project annual work program , 
annual budgets, accounts and financial statements, progress reports, disbursements 
applications and procurement plans and execution; (d) monitoring and evaluation of 
Project output and outcome, including reporting to the Borrower and the Association on 
the project’s progress and the lessons learned; (e) making disbursements of Grants to 
Beneficiaries and maintaining adequate financial records with respect to Grants 
financed by the proceeds of the Credit; and (f) the provision of technical advisory 
Page  18
services to farmers and traders through subcontracting to qualified Partner Agencies.  
3.
TSU would operate under the tutelage of MINAGRI’s Directorate of Extension and 
Marketing in accordance with the criteria and procedures defined in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
4.
TSU may contract Partner Agencies to assist Beneficiaries in the preparation of 
Sub-projects or TSU in the provision of technical advisory services, training or other 
services relating to the Project.  To that end, TSU shall advertise publicly and 
request expressions of interest from potential Partner Agencies. Partner Agencies 
shall be required to: (i) have proven experience and technical expertise in the 
activities for which their services are being sought by TSU; (ii) have adequate 
financial and administrative capacity; (iii) be registered and have the legal capacity 
to contract under the laws of the Borrower; and (iv) meet such other criteria as shall 
be specified in the Project Implementation Manual. 
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply 
the criteria, policies, procedures, guidelines and standard contracts set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not amend 
or waive the Project Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October of each year for the annual reviews, 
February 28, 2001 with respect to the mid-term review, a progress report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
various components of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
based on the work plan for the period under review and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November of each year for the annual 
reviews and April 30, 2001 with respect to the mid-term review, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
II.
Part A of the Project 
1.
The Borrower shall cause BNR to carry out Part A.1 of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement. 
2.
The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1999 adopt specific rules, satisfactory to 
the Association setting forth the operating rules of the ICIF, which shall be 
consistent with the principles set forth in subparagraph II.3 of this Agreement and 
the Project Implementation Manual. TSU shall administer ICIF funds and make them 
available to farmers in accordance with such operating rules.
3.
Criteria for access to the ICIF:
a)
To be eligible for an ICIF loan, a farmer must provide appropriate 
evidence that he/she: (i) has sought and obtained, with the agreement of TSU or a 
Partner Agency designated by TSU, an input credit from a trader or a bank; (ii) has 
faced drought or weather-induced production shortfall in the same season for which 
such input credit was received; and (iii) is registered with Partner Agencies and 
Page  19
conducts his/her farming activities with the support and under the supervision of such 
Partner Agencies.
b)
Operation and Procedures of the ICIF 
(i)
Activation. ICIF funds may not be available for any given year 
unless and 
until a determination has been made by TSU, in 
consultation with the 
Association, that activation of the 
facility has become necessary because of 
an emergency situation due 
to natural causes which has resulted in major 
agricultural 
production shortfalls and there is a likelihood of large defaults 
by 
farmers on the short term input credits referred to in the preceding 
subparagraph; 
(ii)
TSU shall evaluate each application for financing under the ICIF 
in accordance 
with the criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual. If 
necessary, TSU may contract the services 
of Partner Agencies to assist in the 
evaluation of applications. If an 
application is approved, TSU shall take the 
necessary steps, 
consistent with the Project Implementation Manual, to ensure 
that 
payments are made to traders or banks which extended short-term input 
credit to the recipient of the ICIF funds. 
III.
Part B. 2 (a) of the Project
1.
Eligibility Criteria and Other Conditions for Sub-projects
(a)
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless TSU shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, that 
the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria for such Subprojects, which shall 
include the following: (i) the Subproject shall be located in a major trading zone or 
an area that has a clear potential to become a major trading zone; (ii) potential 
Beneficiaries have a demonstrated capacity to participate in infrastructure 
improvement projects; and (iii) there are adequate guaranties that, following 
completion of the Sub-project, the market site that would have benefited from the 
infrastructure improvements would be open on a daily basis.
(b)
the Subproject may be initiated either by a Commune, with the agreement 
of local producers’ or traders’ associations or by a Rural Community-Based Group; 
(c)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable 
in accordance with the standards specified in the Project Implementation Manual;
(d)
the Beneficiary shall provide no less than 10% of the estimated costs of 
the Subproject in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services; and
(e)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental 
protection. 
2.
Terms and Conditions of Grants for Subprojects
In financing Subprojects, the TSU shall enter into a Grant Agreement with the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $35,000 per Grant;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
Page  20
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of TSU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, 
if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
the right of TSU to obtain all information as TSU or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
conditions of the Subproject;
(f)
the right of the TSU to suspend or terminate the right of a Beneficiary 
to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon the failure by the such 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement; and 
(g)
the rights and obligations of the Partner Agency which will execute the 
Subproject on behalf of the Beneficiary. 
IV.
Part C of the Project 
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the timetable and 
specifications described in the Project Implementation Manual.
