Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3270 RW
Project Agreement
(Agricultural and Rural Market Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA
Dated July 16, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3270 RW
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA (BNR). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Rwandese Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BNR agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
and 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BNR the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to BNR on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS BNR in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of BNR
Section 2.01. (a) BNR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out part A.1 of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management, and in accordance with its Statutes.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and BNR shall otherwise agree, BNR shall carry out Part 
A.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program for Part A.1 of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a)
For the purpose of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, BNR 
shall provide to PFIs the equivalent of the Credit allocated to Part A.1 of the 
Project under Participation Agreements to be entered into between BNR and each PFI, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which 
shall include those set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
BNR undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) 
BNR shall exercise its rights in relation to each Import Trading Project 
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of BNR; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, BNR shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and BNR, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of Part A.1 of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views with BNR 
on said plan. 
Section 2.04. BNR shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BNR shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) BNR shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A.1 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; 
(b)
BNR shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A.1 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BNR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
BNR shall prepare and furnish to the Association quarterly reports, 
beginning three months after the Effective Date, on the progress achieved in the 
execution of Part A.1 of the Project;  
Page  3
(d)
BNR shall, together with the Borrower, review with the Association, at 
least once a year, progress in carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, with a view to 
determining and effecting such changes as may be required to ensure the successful 
implementation of Part A.1. of the Project, including any adjustment required in the 
onlending terms and conditions. To that end, BNR shall furnish to the Borrower and the 
Association a report on the progress achieved in carrying out of Part A.1 of the 
Project, in such detail and at such times as the Association shall reasonably request; 
and
(e)
BNR and the Association shall, no later than eighteen (18) months after 
the Effective Date, carry out a mid-term review of the progress achieved in 
implementing Part A.1 of the Project. For that purpose, BNR shall furnish to the 
Association a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) BNR shall cause DPM to maintain procedures and records 
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A.1 of the Project and of each 
Import Trading Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and 
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of BNR.
(b)
BNR shall cause DPM to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) with respect to Part 
A.1 of the Project for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and a report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BNR thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BNR of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
Page  4
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA:
The Governor
Banque Nationale du Rwanda
P.O. Box 531
Kigali, Rwandese Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
22508 – 22589
RWANDABANK
Telefax:
72551 - 78669
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BNR or by BNR 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of BNR, or such other person or persons as BNR shall 
designate in writing, and BNR shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
BANQUE NATIONALE DU RWANDA
By /s/ Eugene S. Kayihura
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program and Terms and 
Conditions of Participation Agreements 
I.
General Implementation Arrangements 
1.
BNR will receive an amount not exceeding one percent (1%) of the outstanding 
amount of Subloans from the interest paid by PFIs to cover its administrative and 
material expenses resulting from the management of the Subloans; this amount will be 
reviewed periodically by the Association and BNR to ensure that it covers the actual 
administrative and material expenses of BNR.
2.
Under Part A.1 of the Project, BNR shall onlend funds to PFIs for the purpose of 
making Subloans for Import Trading Projects. The line of credit will be managed by BNR 
through DPM to which necessary power shall be delegated, inter alia, for approving the 
applications for refinancing from PFIs. 
3.
BNR shall, for the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, provide adequate human 
and other resources to DPM satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
4.
DPM shall, inter alia:
(i)
ensure adherence by PFIs to established procedures in selecting 
eligible 
Import Trading Projects and application of 
appropriate standards for Subloan 
appraisals;
(ii)
review eligibility criteria and authorize financing under Part A.1 
of the 
Project for Import Trading Projects submitted by PFIs 
no later than 5 working 
days following receipt of the completed 
application packages;
(iii)
ensure liaison between the Association, the Borrower and PFIs on 
matters 
related to the implementation of Part A.1 of the 
Project;
(iv)
ensure, through PFIs, that potential beneficiaries are provided 
guidance in 
the preparation of Import Trading Projects;
(v)
organize adequate training in project appraisal and supervision 
techniques for 
BNR staff assigned to the Project; 
(vi)
manage Subloan disbursement and collect all relevant documentation 
upon approval; 
and
(vii)
cause to ensure that Import Trading Projects are adequately 
supervised by 
PFIs. 
II.
Eligibility Criteria, Accreditation of PFIs and Terms and Conditions of 
Participation Agreements
1.
Eligibility Criteria and Accreditation. Any commercial bank, development bank or 
financial institution registered in the territory of the Borrower may apply for 
accreditation by BNR as a PFI. Said accreditation will be based on a review of the 
application by BNR based on the criteria described in subparagraphs (a) through (d) of 
this paragraph and approval by the Association. BNR may request from any bank that 
applies for accreditation such information as it deems necessary for the purpose of 
Page  6
conducting such review. If accreditation is not granted, the concerned institution 
shall be informed of the reasons and may reapply after complying with said criteria. 
Accreditation of a PFI shall become effective after conclusion of a Participating 
Agreement. Accreditation may be withdrawn in the event of failure of a PFI to comply 
with the requirements set forth below and other requirements specified in the 
Participation Agreements. To be eligible, a PFI shall: 
(a)
be duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, and the 
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its activities;
(c)
conduct its affairs including interest rate policies in accordance with 
sound financial principles and practices; and
(d)
maintain a lending policy acceptable to the Association and BNR, suitable 
procedures and an adequate number of suitably qualified staff to enable it to 
effectively: 
(i)
appraise the financial, technical, and economic feasibility of 
Import Trading 
Projects and make Sub-loans to Import Trading 
Enterprises in accordance with 
said lending policy and on the basis of 
the criteria, procedures and terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement; and 
(ii)
supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by Import 
Trading 
Enterprises of Import Trading Projects, 
including the procurement of goods and 
services.
2.
Each Participation Agreement shall contain, inter alia, provisions requiring 
each PFI to:
(a)
comply at all times with the eligibility requirements set forth in the 
preceding paragraph; 
(b)
exercise its rights in respect of Sub-loans in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and BNR and to comply with its 
obligations under the Participation Agreement in order to achieve the purposes of Part 
A.1 of the Project;
(c)
undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Sub-loans or any provision thereof without the approval of BNR;
(d)
maintain records and accounts adequate to monitor and records the 
operations, resources, expenditures and progress of each Import Trading Project;
(e)
carry out the appraisal of the Import Trading Project in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association, which shall include a review of the 
financial viability of the Import Trading Project, the financing plan and an 
assessment of the management capacity of the Import Trading Enterprise; 
(f)
undertake to bear all credit risk relating to the extension of Subloans; 
(g)
undertake to submit annually to BNR, independently audited and 
satisfactory financial accounts and statements; and
(h)
undertake to repay the principal and interest amounts due on any proceeds 
of the Credit that shall have been made available to it by BNR within a period that 
shall not exceed fifteen (15) months following the availability of such funds. \0c 
SCHEDULE 2 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Import Trading Projects  
1.
Financial Terms of Sub-loans
(a)
Currency of Sub-loans. All Subloans shall be denominated in Francs 
Rwandais. 
Page  7
(b)
Interest Rate. Each PFI shall be free to set the interest rate at which 
it will extend Subloans to Import Trading Enterprises. 
(c)
Maturities.
A PFI may set the maturities and grace periods of Subloans in accordance with 
its standard practice in this respect. 
2.
Conditions of Sub-loans
(a)
Eligibility of Import Trading Enterprises. Unless otherwise agreed upon 
by the Association, an Import Trading Enterprise shall satisfy the following criteria 
to be eligible for a Subloan: the enterprise must: (i) be a legal or physical person 
lawfully engaged in business activities in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) have 
adequate technical expertise or experience in import or distribution activities 
involving agricultural inputs or products; (iii) possess adequate infrastructure and 
staff; (iv) have in place suitable administrative and financial management systems and 
procedures to execute the Import Trading Subproject; and (v) not be involved in any 
legal or financial dispute which would materially affect its ability to undertake the 
Import Trading Project.
(b)
An Import Trading Enterprise shall contribute at least 30% of the cost of 
its Import Trading Project for its first Import Trading Project; 45% of such cost for 
its second Import Trading Project; 60% of such cost for its third Import Trading 
Project; and 75% of such cost for its fourth and any subsequent Import Trading 
Project.  
(c)
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Import Trading 
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the 
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account for the Subloan 
for such Import Trading Project and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier 
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
request and information required under paragraph 2(d) of this Schedule in respect of 
such Sub-loan. 
(d)
Each request by BNR for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a Sub-loan shall contain: a summary description of the Import 
Trading Enterprise and the Import Trading Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and the terms 
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(e)
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby BNR shall obtain by appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BNR 
including, in the case of any Sub-loan, the right to: 
(i)
require the Import Trading Enterprise to carry out and operate the 
Import 
Trading Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and managerial standards 
and to maintain adequate 
records;
(ii)
require that: (aa) the goods and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price, 
account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and 
reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare 
parts therefor, and 
(bb) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying 
out of the Import Trading Project;
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association if the 
Association shall so request, such goods, works, 
plants and construction 
included in the Import Trading Project, 
the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(iv)
require that: (i) the Import Trading Enterprise shall take out and 
maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks 
and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice; and (ii) without 
any limitation upon the foregoing, such 
Page  8
insurance shall cover hazards incident 
to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Import 
Trading Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(v)
obtain all such information as the Association or BNR shall 
reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial 
condition of the Import Trading Enterprise and 
to the benefits to be derived 
from the Import Trading Project; and
(vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Import Trading Enterprise to 
the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Import 
Trading Enterprise to 
perform its obligations under its contract 
with a PFI.
