Report No. PID6342
Project Name                      Guyana-El Nino Emergency Recovery Project
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Infrastructure
Project ID                        GYPE57271
Borrower                          Government of Guyana (GOG)
Guarantor                         Government of Guyana
Implementing Agencies             Guyana Water Authority   (GUYWA)
Georgetown Sewerage and Water
Commission (GS&W)
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA, D& I Div)
Date Initial PID
Prepared                          April 13, 1998
Project Appraisal Date            May 8-15, 1998
Project Board Date                June, 1998
1. Background: While Guyana's coastland comprises only about 5t of its total
area of about 96,000 square miles, it accounts for almost 90t of the
population and all of its rice and sugar production, together with most of its
other cash crops.   About  80t of the country's GDP is produced in this belt.
The coastal area is a flat narrow plain with a mean elevation level about 4-6
feet below average high tide. It requires protection from the ocean and
rivers by expensive coastal sea walls, which in many sections suffer frequent
ruptures resulting in flooding and salt water infiltration. There are two
rainy seasons, December-January and May-June.
2. Along the coast, there is a complex system of lakes and reservoirs linked
by canals and ditches which irrigate about 80t of the rice and cane fields.
The system uses a series of sluice gates along the sea walls to allow the
outflow of fresh water during low tide and to block the inflow of salt water
during the high tide. While to some degree, almost everyone on the coast
depends upon the sea-defense system, farmers in Guyana's islands do not have
the irrigation canals and reservoirs found on the coastland; they depend
entirely upon rainfed agriculture or fresh river water when this is available.
The country's drainage and irrigation system is managed by the Ministry of
Agriculture through its National Drainage and Irrigation Board.
3. For potable water, GUYWA, the national water authority serves most of the
coastal areas while the GS&WC has responsibility for the Georgetown system.
Almost all residents have tanks to collect rainwater and those in the remote
interior areas usually use the creeks and rivers as their primary water
source.  While about 50t of the GS&WC water comes from surface source (the
rest being wells), all of GUYWA's water comes from wells. For the coastal
areas, there is generally access to potable water, thanks to ongoing
rehabilitation works and a household connection rate of about 90%.



4. Primary Problem. In 1996, Guyana suffered a severe flood which resulted in
losses in several sectors, especially agriculture. The first 1997 crops were
very good but because of the El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon,
between September 1997 and February 1998, rainfall was only about 25t of
normal precipitation over the coastal areas. Almost all of the lakes,
reservoirs and other irrigation sources are now almost completely dried up.
As farmers struggle to avoid another bad crop by pumping residual water from
both the drainage and irrigation ditches, they also accelerate salt-water
intrusion as sea water moves inward. In many of the main rivers and creeks,
salt water has reportedly reached as far as thirty miles inland (in normal
times the salt water usually is some distance from the sea coast).
5. Rice. In early 1997, farmers sowed about 185,000 acres in both rainfed and
irrigated lands. In 1998, responding to ENSO warnings, about 40,000 acres were
not sown. Of the approximately 145,000 acres sown, about 20,000-35,000 acres
were lost and overall yields have been reduced because of lack of irrigation
water. Instead of about 170,000 tonnes, total output is now estimated at about
120,000 tonnes. According to the Guyana Rice Development Board, the export
earnings loss to farmers and millers would be about US$20 million. About
1,300 rice cultivators, most of them small farmers, are estimated to have lost
their entire crop. Many farmers owe suppliers and banks and are owed by the
millers for their previous year's crops so their situation is rather
precarious.
6. Sugar. GUYSUCO, the national sugar producing company, estimates that ENSO
reduced sugar production by about 13t of the targeted spring season output.
This amounts to about US$7 million in lost export earnings. The high
concentration of sugar lands along with a very sophisticated irrigation and
water-management system ameliorated such losses. In spite of this, it is
estimated that about 1,000 small sugar-cane growers suffered crop losses and
would need assistance.
7. Other Crops. Plantains, cassava and various vegetables and other crops are
cultivated and consumed primarily on a subsistence basis. Cassava is a
primary component in the diet of most of the indigenous communities.
Initially, it was estimated that the impact of the drought on cash crop
cultivation was minimal; however, there is growing evidence that most of these
crops are suffering from the drought. In many coastal areas with access to
potable water, residents are resorting to using this water for watering their
crops and avoiding total losses. While this has exacerbated the potable water
problem, it has helped to maintain an adequate level of food supply. Apart
from losses and low yields from cash crops, there is an acute scarcity of
seeds, cassava cuttings, etc. for the next cropping season. Some communities
have also reported caterpillar and other insect infestation on surviving plant
stocks.
8. Forest Fires. There are forest fires in several areas of the country and
while still relatively small, they are destroying large tracts and creating
health problems. In the settlements bordering Brazil, there is smoke from
fires in both Brazil and the local grasslands and fleeing wild animals compete
at water holes with local residents and domestic animals.
9. Illnesses. In many communities, the incidence of water-related illnesses
such as diarrhea has increased. There have also been reported increases in
malaria and dengue fever and the lack of adequate nutrition, especially among
- 2 -



the young, has also been reported as a problem.
10. Government Actions. The GOG took several actions as the impact of ENSO
worsened and more information on its duration and characteristics became
clearer. The Drainage and Irrigation Board (D&I Board) kept farmers abreast
of expected weather conditions and the Ministry of Agriculture provided advice
to them. Also, in November 1997, the D&I Board prepared a study on the
expected effects of ENSO and the GOG sought and received UNDP's assistance
for a more detailed water study and recommendations. Efforts were also made
to redistribute and ration water to farmers in several areas. In the potable
water sector, GUYWA and the GS&WC took several preventative measures aimed at
mitigating ENSO's effects. Among these were a water conservation education
program, sinking of new wells and rehabilitation of old ones. As conditions
worsened, a special unit was formed in the Presidential Secretariat to help in
water distribution to areas suffering from severe supply problems. Finally,
on March 26, 1998, the GOG declared a state of emergency and the Civil Defense
Committee (CDC), in coordination with several donors and relief organizations,
began to mount a program of nationwide relief assistance.
11. Even though the GOG took several actions aimed at mitigating ENSO's impact,
indications are that more often than not, the target groups (farmers and
households) were not as responsive as they could have been under the
circumstances. A common complaint was that many farmers ignored the
advisories on acreage to plant and they routinely ignored requests to limit
their water intake from the system. Several of them opened water control
gates and pumped water illegally. Also, in several cases, lack of routine
maintenance for decades left many of the drainage and irrigation facilities in
disrepair, allowing inflow of salt water and reducing the GOG's ability to
manage and control the supply.
12. Relief Efforts. The CDC, with the help of the international donor
community, appears to have a good relief program in place. Field visits show
that some of the relief supplies are beginning to arrive and there are
adequate provisions being made for their appropriate storage and distribution.
Some more efforts appear to be needed to make the operating criteria
transparent and accessible to all, both in the central and regional
distribution systems. Also, because of the distance and difficulty of
traversing several regions (even in the dry weather), it may be advisable for
the GOG to consider sending cash to the authorities in remote areas bordering
Brazil and make arrangements for purchases of relief supplies there. Apart
from cutting transport costs, this could allow for more appropriate types of
food purchases and save in storage and redistribution costs. It could also
reduce the potential for food poisoning, especially from canned products in a
tropical area.
13. Project Objectives.    The primary objective of the proposed project is to
help to prevent further drought-associated losses and to help restore the
drainage and irrigation and potable water systems so that farmers would not
lose another planting season and households would have easier access to
drinking water supplies. Given the historical record, a complementary
objective is to help the GOG to be prepared for the heavy rains and floods
which invariably follow ENSO in Guyana. To achieve these objectives, it is
proposed that the Bank finance a package of mitigation and preventative
investments.
-3-



14. Components. Drainage and Irrigation. Rehabilitation of key sluices,
kokers, and other related structures countrywide (including Georgetown), which
need to be renovated or replaced in order to ensure protection against further
infiltration of sea water during the current drought period and which will
also assist in draining the excess water during the rainy season. Associated
activities include complementary priority dredging or rechanneling works
needed for these structures to function properly. To facilitate efficient use
of the drainage and irrigation network, it was also agreed that the D&I Board
would submit a list of key pumping equipment (both mobile and fixed) needed to
improve water-resource management and reduce the effects of extreme drought
and flood conditions. Acquisition of some essential hydrometeorological
equipment would also be included in this component.
15. Potable Water. This component includes restoration, rehabilitation and/or
digging of important wells in key locations as well as investments in
distribution networks in vulnerable areas (e.g., rural schools and cluster
settlements in remote regions). These investments would be made with the aim
of having well-functioning basic services in key locations (schools, community
centers, health centers, markets, etc.) so that isolated or marginal
communities would not face the hardships they currently face in the absence of
such facilities. Among the items to be considered are water tenders, water
pumps, wells with hand pumps, rehabilitation of key service systems, storage
tanks, pipes and fittings, retrofitting of existing wells to prevent flooding
and contamination during the rainy season.
16. Project Cost. It is expected that the priority works (including
incremental administrative costs of the project and any required TA) will cost
about US$ 11 M of which the Bank credit would be for about US$ 10M and the GOG
will provide up to about US$ 1 M in counterpart funding.
17. Implementational Arrangement. It is envisioned that the implementation of
the above works would be done by the entities which have been traditionally
responsible for such tasks in the sector. This means that the drainage and
irrigation works would be done by the Ministry of Agriculture's D&I Board
while the water components would be done by GUYWA and the GS&WC. Coordination
of the works would be the responsibility of a project unit (PU) which would be
within the Presidential Secretariat and comprise a coordinator knowledgeable
with the water sector along with about two technical experts (in procurement
and finance). An appropriate financial and accounting system for the project
would have to be in place. The heads of the implementing entities would be on
the board to which the PU would be responsible.
18. Since this would be an emergency operation, its timely implementation would
be very crucial. It is expected that it would not take more than two years to
be implemented. One favorable point in this respect is that most of the goods
and works required under the proposed project are not large or complicated
(many are off-the-shelf items), and the proposed agencies routinely implement
similar works and make similar purchases. Nevertheless, in light of past
experience, prior agreement with the Bank would be sought for improved
procurement arrangements. It is expected that once an agreement is reached
with the GOG on the procedures, criteria and related issues, procurement
through the Central Tender Board would be expedited consistent with its     "Fast
Track" procedures (standard contracts, basic designs and bills of
quantities).
-4-



19. Project Sustainability and Risks. While the importance of these
structures and systems to Guyana's economy are well recognized and have high
priority, other priorities have arisen in the past, the result being little or
no sustained maintenance. To overcome this weakness, there are several
ongoing initiatives by IDB, CDB and others, aimed at getting users to form
groups and to assume greater responsibility for the facilities which they use.
It is envisioned that under the proposed project, such operation and
maintenance considerations would be an integral part of the process for
determining the list of priority works. After the works are done, the GOG
would be asked to take regular follow-up measures a to ensure that the system
functions well and would be ready for both normal and emergency uses.
20. In terms of risk, there are several significant ones. At the country level,
Guyana has just had an election, the result of which the opposition party is
contesting along with a boycott in the legislature. If this problem is not
resolved soon, it could escalate into open conflict. At the institutional
level, there is the risk that with so many infrastructure works underway, both
the supply of equipment and machinery and the implementation capacity of the
GOG entities would be low. The capacity (organizational, administrative,
financial, etc.) of the users to form groups to efficiently operate and
maintain the facilities is also not assured in spite of several ongoing
initiatives.
21. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Proposed Project Design. The project
is designed to be very simple and to be focused only on the key components
needed to help restore services or prevent further losses. For institutional
building as well as efficiency goals, it will be implemented by the entities
which normally do such tasks and it will incorporate basic designs normally
used by these entities. While there would be no cost recovery or similar
requirements, it would incorporate the user- group model to encourage users to
be responsible for the normal operation and maintenance costs, along with
decisions governing operation of their system. The short implementation
period (two years) and priority works selected are designed to ensure that
only essential works are done and the project does not replace the need for
more comprehensive sector reforms and lending at a later time.
22. Program Objective Category. Emergency lending
23. Environmental Aspects. The project would not finance the construction of
new infrastructure of significant size which would have adverse environmental
impact. Rehabilitation activities such as dredging of small outlet channels
for existing sluices will have guidance criteria to minimize any adverse
impact. None of the component is planned within any natural protected zone.
The drainage and irrigation component would support activities aimed at a more
rational use of water resources. The potable water component would reduce
dependence of the population on unsafe sources associated with adverse health
conditions.
Contact Point:                          The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
-5 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 8, 1998.
- 6 -



