Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24244
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1390)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.8 MILLION (US$9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
FOR AN
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 1, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar
G$1.00 = US$ 0.0055
US$ 1.00 = GS$ 180.5
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                 Civil Defense Commission
CTB                 Central Tenders Board
ENSO                El Niiio Southern Oscillation
ESAF                Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
GOG                 Government of Guyana
GS&WC               Georgetown Sewerage and Water Comnissioners
GUYWA               Guyana Water Authority
GWI                 Guyana Water Incorporated
MOA                 Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOH&W               Ministry of Housing and Water
NDIB                National Drainage and Irrigation Board
PEU                 Project Executing Unit
PMR                 Project Management Report
SIIMAP              Social Impact Amelioration Program
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Thakoor Persaud



GUYANA
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
6. Sustainability                                                                  10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30
Annex 8. Project Contracts and Map References                                      31






Project ID: P057271                                      Project Name: "EL NINO" Emergency Assistance
Project
Team Leader: Thakoor Persaud                              TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: August 6, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: "EL NINO" Emergency Assistance Project         L/C/TF Number: IDA-31390
Country/Department: GUYANA                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Water supply (52%), Irrigation & drainage (40%),
Flood protection (p%), Central government
administration (2%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/30/1998                             Effective:  12/22/1998        12/22/1998
Appraisal:  07/07/1998                                MTR: 07/11/2000           06/06/2000
Approval:  10/22/1998                              Closing: 11/30/2001          03/29/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOV'T. OF GUYANA/NDIB; GOV'T. OF GUYANA/GUYWA; GOV'T. OF
GUYANA/GSWC; GOV'T. OF GUYANA/HD; GOV'T. OF GUYANA/PCU
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De'Fe6ranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                         Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:  Thakoor Persaud                           Thakoor Persaud
ICR Primary Author:  T. Persaud; E. Njomo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Ourcome. S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Ouality at Entry                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was part of a well coordinated effort by donors active in Guyana, to assist the
Government in mitigating the impact of the El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon
which affected Guyana starting in 1997. The impact of ENSO which began in the form of a
slowly-developing drought, had worsened considerably by the end of 1998. As the extent of crop
losses and potable water scarcity became clearer, the Government declared a State of Emergency
on March 26, 1998 and gave the Civil Defense Commission(CDC), an entity within the Office of
the President, the responsibility for coordinating all ENSO relief and reconstruction/rehabilitation
efforts. With the assistance of the UNDP, damage assessment reports were prepared. The
international donor community responded with an assistance program aimed at addressing
identified relief needs. The Bank, IDB and other international agencies were asked to assist in the
recovery phase. The El Niiio Emergency Assistance Project was prepared in response to identified
emergency prevention and reconstruction needs. The works and activities expected to be
supported under the project were to be of an emergency nature to be completed within a two-year
design and construction schedule and an overall implementation period of 3 years. Furthermore, in
line with OP 8.50, the project was not specifically meant to address long-term sectoral issues.
The original objectives of the project were:
(a)   help to restore the country's agricultural capacity in drought-stricken areas through
vulnerability reduction measures in the areas of hydrologic extremes;
(b)   help in providing safe and reliable potable water service to marginal urban and remote
hinterland and riverine communities which have been affected by drought; and
help restore flood protection in low-lying areas of the City of Georgetown.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were implemented as originally designed. However individual
items within the Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration Program and the
Potable Water Service Recovery & Restoration Program underwent several significant funding
changes in response to the limited absorptive capacity of one of the project executing agencies as
explained below (see para.4.2 ). The original project components were as follows:
I.    Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration Program
The Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration component of the project was
focussed upon strengthening the Drainage and Irrigation (D&I) system in its efforts aimed at
supporting agricultural production in the coastal areas of Guyana which were affected by the
ENSO phenomenon. It also assisted strengthening of the hydrometeorological network of the
country through the provision and installation of weather stations in selected areas. Under the
D&I Component, the project supported the rehabilitation of selected key structures in the
drainage and irrigation system, the construction of primary water-control structures in key points
to reduce water loss, and the supply of mobile pumps to serve during both times of floods and
droughts. Additionally, the project supported the incremental staff and equipment needed by the
executing agency of the component, the National Drainage and Irrigation Board (NDIB), to
- 2 -



implement the D&I component. Specifically, the project called for the rehabilitation of 17 sluices,
5 conservancy works and the supply of 10 mobile pumps and 3 gravel pumps. In addition, the
project included financing of the incremental staff ( 2 engineers and an accountant) and equipment
(autocad, computers, etc.) needed to implement the component. Under the Strengthening of
Hydrometeorological Network Component the project supported the upgrading of the facilities
in selected weather stations nationwide, these being part of the hydrometeorological network
managed by the Hydrometeorological Division (HD) of the Ministry of Agriculture. This
component included the provision of water level recorders, rainfall loggers, SSB's, evaporimeters
in 12 weather stations as well as the installation of 9 automatic weather stations. Furthermore the
project was expected to support a dissemination program of 8 seminars and workshops aimed at
improving HD's weekly and monthly reports with predictions and information analysis, while
promoting the use of the enhanced hydrometeorological data to be developed under the project.
II.   Potable Water Service Recovery & Restoration Program
Under this program, the aim was to meet the potable water needs of marginal urban and
hinterland communities depending upon rainwater, creeks and rivers as their primary potable
water source. With the drought, these sources either dried up or became saline from backflow of
ocean water. The project addressed the potable water needs of marginal communities which had
to get water from tanker trucks and rural ones who sought emergency supplies from back-up
hand pumps, most of which were in disrepair. Under the Recovery and Restoration
Component, the project was expected to support the construction of complementary distribution
and transmission facilities, consisting of 10 miles of four-inch PVC pipes and 10 miles of six-inch
PVC pipes (as well as valves and fittings), in affected areas to help improve service quality and
avoid supplies through tanker trucks. The project was also expected to finance the replacement of
Asbestos/Cement mains in the low-income area of North Ruimveldt in Georgetown, which is
located at the extreme end of the distribution systems where residents do not usually receive
water during drought and low flow periods. Under the Drought Mitigation Measures
Component, the project was expected to support the installation of preventive potable water
works in drought-vulnerable and affected interior areas of Regions 1,2,5,7,8,and 9 (see map),
such as drilling of wells, installation of water pumps, to be undertaken near schools, markets,
social facilities such as health centers, and religious establishments and the installation of
strategically located storage tanks that would have a significant impact in reducing the
vulnerability of the water supply networks in these areas to both the residual effects of the
then-current drought as well as to future ones. Specifically the project was expected to support
the construction of 50 hand-dug wells, 50 four-inch shallow wells, 28 six-inch wells, and 4
ten-inch wells. The component was also expected to support the installation or construction of
100 hand pumps, 2 solar water systems, 6 windmill water systems and 2 strategically-located
storage tanks - a 10,000-gallon elevated storage tank at Charity, Region 2 and a 500,000-gallon
ground storage tank in the City of Georgetown. Both components under the Potable Water
Service Recovery & Restoration Program were to be jointly executed by the Guyana Water
Authority (GUYWA), with responsibility for facilities outside of Georgetown, and Georgetown
Sewerage and Water Commissioners' (GS&WC), with responsibility for facilities in the City of
Georgetown.
-3-



HI.   Georgetown Flood Protection Restoration Program
Under this program the project was expected to support the replacement of two 30" and 36"
diameter pumps, as well as rehabilitation of sluices. Given that the coastland in the Georgetown
area is below sea level at high tide, the efficacy of these two sluices and the gravity based drainage
system of Georgetown is limited by tidal action. This component was expected to be implemented
by the Project Executing Unit (PEU) of the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and
Regional Development.
IV.   Project Coordination
Given the project's multi-sectoral character and having five implementing agencies, a project
coordination unit (PCU) was established at the Civil Defense Commission (CDC) to coordinate
the project's contracting and financial management aspects. Incremental staff included a full time
project coordinator and accountant and a part-time environmental specialist as well as support
staff consisting of a secretary, office/accounting assistant and messenger. In addition, the PCU
was responsible for procuring and managing the services of the procurement auditor and financial
auditor.
At appraisal the estimated US$10.201 million of the project cost, including contingencies and
IDA's share, was as follows:
COMPONENT                                       COST      IDA
(US$mln) SHARE
I Agric. Production Cap. Recov. & Regen. Program
Drainage & Irrigation                        3.966    3.470
Hydrometeorological Services                 0.170    0.170
Subtotal                              4.136    3.640
II Potable Water Service Recovery Program
Recovery and Restoration                     1.145    1.010
Drought Mitigation Measures                  3.980    3.482
Subtotal                              5.125    4.492
III Georgetown Flood Protection                   0.622    0.550
IV Project Coordination                           0.318    0.318
Total                               10.201    9.000
3.4 Revised Coznponents:
The overall project components were not revised. However the scope and numbers of individual
project items within the project components were different from appraisal estimates for all the
project components due to design changes, time constraints, availability of other funding
resources and the limited absorptive capacity of GUYWA. The differences are reviewed in
Section 4 below.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-4 -



Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project's objectives were consistent
with the Government's development strategy and supported the CAS overall goals of promoting
sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction. The project was aimed at helping restore the
country's agricultural capacity in drought-stricken areas through vulnerability reduction measures.
The Potable Water Service Recovery and Restoration Program was targeted toward marginal
urban and hinterland (mostly Amerindian) communities depending upon rainwater, creeks and
rivers as their primary potable water source. An environmental expert was hired to assist in
monitoring the enviromnental criteria of the construction of project facilities and to train the
engineers of the implementation agencies to incorporate environmental aspects in the management
of the work of contractors. She developed a checklist of environment mitigation measures relating
to site preparation, construction activities and post-construction site reclamation to assist the
implementing agencies in monitoring project execution.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As described below all three of the project development objectives were fully achieved despite
some implementation problems that were encountered.
(i) Restoration of the country's agricultural capacity in drought stricken areas through
vulnerability reduction measures in the areas of hydrologic extremes - Achieved. The project
supported the clearing of thirteen drainage canals and outfalls of silt. In addition 13 sluices and 71
water-control structures were either rehabilitated or constructed throughout key coastal and
interior areas. The project financed the acquisition of 12 mobile pumps and seven gravel pumps.
These equipment and structures had an immediate and significant positive impact on drainage and
irrigation in the project areas. Furthermore, if they are properly maintained, they are expected to
have a long-term impact upon the livelihood of those living in the areas served. The project
investments have already proven their worth in significantly improving the ability of NDIB to
respond to recent floods along the coast resulting from heavy rains in 2000. About 275,000 acres
of paddyland and other agricultural areas are estimated to have benefited from improved irrigation
and flood protection as a result of the project.
(ii) Provision of Safe and Reliable potable Water Service to Marginal Urban and Remote
Hinterland and Riverine Communities which have been affected by the Drought - Achieved.
Potable water has been provided to marginal urban communities in North Ruimveldt and GS&WC
has replaced leaky lines in Festival City, South Ruimveldt and Agricola, all of these settlements
being low-income areas in Georgetown. Approximately 15,500 residents or about 2,580
households are now receiving reliable water supply. Project-financed facilities aimed at improving
potable water service in the remote hinterland and riverine communities include 33 hand-dug
wells, 79 hand pumps and 50 four- and six-inch wells. Many of these wells and hand pumps are
providing water to vulnerable Amerindian groups in the hinterland areas; in many of these
communities, such wells have been located in schoolyards or other public areas, facilitating
greater community access. Approximately 6,290 families (37,700 persons) living on the coast as
well as in very remote interior and riverine areas, including three communities at Mathew's Ridge,
Ituni and Mahdia, added later in the project, are benefiting from these facilities. About 81.8 miles
of four-and six inch new PVC distribution lines replaced old and leaky asbestos lines in these
-5-



areas.
(iii) Restoration of Flood Protection in low-lying areas of Georgetown - Achieved. The project
supported the acquisition of five mobile pumps (vs. the two planned) for the city to assist in the
pumping of runoff during precipitation occurring during high tide when the sluices have to be
closed and the gravity-based drainage system is inoperable. These pumps have been deployed in
strategic locations covering about 2 square miles around the city where they would protect an
estimated 100,000 residents.
4.2 Outputs by conmponents:
(a) The Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration Program: (i) D&I
Component. The number of sluices rehabilitated was reduced from 17 to 13 because of time
limitations and due to the fact that funding of some of the sluices was provided by other donors.
The number of conservancy structures to be rehabilitated was increased from 5 to 71 due to a
decision to rehabilitate all the structures in Tapakuma main canal (a primary rice-producing area)
rather limiting the rehabilitation work to the main structures as had originally been planned. The
Johanna Cecelia Conservancy was rehabilitated under the project, even though it was not
originally included. This was done in response to demand from farmers who were suffering crop
losses because of poor facilities. In addition the number of mobile and gravel pumps acquired was
increased from 13 to 19 in order to enable the pumps to be assigned permanently to specific key
regions rather than to have the pumps in a pool and moved long distances. Even with 19 pumps,
the number of pumps owned by NDIB is still lower than the 29 identified in a needs assessment
study financed by the UNDP. It was determined that this arrangement will also enhance user
accountability for the pumps. The increase in the number of pumps was also facilitated by the
availability of additional funding from failure of the Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA) to utilize
all of its earmarked funds under the project. (ii) HD Component. In lieu of the rehabilitation of
12 stations, it was determined that it would be preferable to install 13 automatic weather stations
that incorporated the gathering of the data from the instruments to be included in the rehabilitated
stations. In this way the data collection protocols could be harmonized. As of March, 2002 real
time data are being received from 11 out of the 13 automatic stations established under the
project. Real time data retrieval capability for the remaining two stations is expected shortly. In
addition, the dissemination program was expanded to include a pilot video program which
included the broadcast of hydrometeorological information on Guyanese television. Because of
increased interest, the project also supported an increase in the circulation of the HD's weekly and
monthly bulletin from 110 to 250 subscribers.
(b) Potable Water Service Recovery & Restoration Program. (i) Under the Recovery and
Restoration Component, 81.8 miles of four-and six inch pipes were laid or rehabilitated
compared to the 20 miles planned. This was because of the expansion of coverage of the program
to include 3 additional marginal urban communities in Georgetown ( Western Section of North
Ruimveldt and Festival City, South Ruimveldt Gardens, and Agricola) and 3 additional
drought-sensitive hinterland urban communities (Matthew's Ridge, Ituni and Mahdia). Only two
urban areas had been originally included in the project at North Ruimveldt in Georgetown and
Little Biabu in Region 5. (ii) Under the Drought Mitigation Component the number of hand-
dug wells constructed amounted to 33 (vs. 50 planned) but the number of four-inch well
- 6 -



constructed was only 23 (vs. 50 planned). Unfortunately, about 10 of the wells actually
constructed turned out to be unproductive. At about US$11,000 in initial production cost per
well, such a high number of unproductive wells constituted a tremendous waste of scarce
resources and so this activity was stopped to avoid further dry wells. There were 3 solar water
systems installed compared to 2 that were planned. Six windmill water systems were installed as
planned. As explained below, there were no ten-inch wells nor storage tanks constructed because
of revised needs assessments and more detailed technical studies. The number of hand pumps
installed was 79 (vs. 100 planned). The facilities located in Georgetown were implemented by
Guyana Sewerage and Water Commissioners (GS&WC) while other facilities were implemented
* by the Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA).
(c) Georgetown Flood Protection Restoration Program. Under this component there were no
sluices rehabilitated. During project implementation, the preparatory work for dimensioning the
replacement pumps indicated that there was need for a more comprehensive long-term approach
to Georgetown's drainage needs since the population and settlement patterns had changed
substantially over the decades since the existing pumps were installed. While the Georgetown
City Council prepared its long-term plans, it was decided to proceed with the acquisition of five
mobile pumps for the city. These pumps have been deployed in strategic locations covering about
2 square miles around the city where they would protect an estimated 100,000 residents. Also
following a quick hydrological reassessment of the Georgetown drainage system it was decided to
install 5 smaller pumps rather than the 2 large pumps that were originally envisaged. This
component was implemented by the Project Co-ordination Unit because of severe staff reductions
at the PEU, due to the cancellation of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2477-GUA)
which constituted the bulk of PEU's workprogram.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the PAD the cost-benefit analysis of the Drainage and Irrigation component was done by
estimating the losses avoided in the expected floods of 1999 related to the predicted La Nifia
events as well as future El Niio and La Nifia events. The same assumptions were followed in the
re-estimation, except that the implementation was lagged by one year and actual costs were used,
with O&M adjusted in light of experience. The revised economic rates of return and NPV were
as follows:
PAD          Actual
Cost Benefit Analysis: NPV  US$1.8 M      US$1.43 M
IERR                           19%          16%
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Even though this project was an emergency project, it was still able to serve as the vehicle for
attaining several institutional improvements in the implementation of projects in Guyana. The
environmental specialist hired under the project developed a checklist of environmental mitigation
measures that was used by the project implementing agencies to monitor the work of the
contractors. Also, engineers in the implementation agencies were trained in environrmental impact
- 7 -



assessment. The environmental specialist periodically met with contractors to sensitize them on
environmental mitigation and site reclamation techniques. The project also put considerable
emphasis on community participation, especially in the hinterland areas primarily inhabited by
Amerindians. This was an important element in the construction of the hand dug and four inch
shallow wells and in the operation and maintenance of the hand pumps. The communities were
trained to undertake routine maintenance of the windmill and solar water systems that were
installed under the project. The nearly 60 hand dug and shallow wells and 79 hand pumps financed
under the project provided ample opportunities to reinforce the desirability of community
participation in project execution. The project has also contributed to the improvement of
hydrometeorological information in Guyana. Eight workshops were held in various parts of the
country, and the circulation of HD's weekly and monthly bulletins were more than doubled.
Furthermore the project helped in streamlining the procurement processes in Guyana. Monitoring
systems were set up to identify bottlenecks in the procurement-approval process and deadlines
were established for carrying out key steps. Standing committee of evaluators were set up in
advance in sectors covered by the project to expedite the constituting of evaluation teams for
reviewing bid proposals. Finally the project helped develop a simplified cost-effective
computerized project financial management system based on the Bank's project management
reports (PMRs). The system served as the model for the development of computerized systems
for PMRs in several projects in Guyana.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
a. Adverse Weather. Civil Unrest, Fire and 9/11. Project implementation schedule was adversely
affected by floods in 1999/2000 and the political unrest that accompanied the elections of March
19, 2001. In many of the project areas, especially those on the coastlines, the civil strife led to the
suspension of works for several weeks as both workers in the field and those in the implementing
entities were unable to operate normally. Additionally, the NDIB (the implementing entity for the
irrigation works) headquarters was totally destroyed by fire. All records, documents and
equipment were lost in the fire and this has had an adverse imnpact upon its operation. Frequent
power outages has also had an adverse impact upon several project-related activities in so far as
offices were without electricity and equipment could not be operated or were damaged by power
surges. Finally, mail communications between IDA and the PCU were severely disrupted
following the terrorist attack on the US on September 11, 2001 just as the push was being made
to complete the contracting of works, goods and services under the project. Documents to be
sent to IDA for review were delayed. Despite these impediments, the project was completed with
only one extension of the closing date by four months from November 30, 2001 to March 29,
2002.
b. Remoteness of Project Facilities. As can be seen from the project map, the facilities supported
under the project were widely scattered around the country in line with the Government's firm
commitment to address the potable water needs of vulnerable and marginally-served groups.
Mobilization of contractors and transportation of construction materials represented a major
challenge for the implementing agencies especially during the rainy season. Some of the well
drilling sites were located in very remote hinterland areas, many of which could be reached only
by dry-weather paths. Some materials had to be flown to the contract site and skilled workers had
- 8 -



to be brought in from Georgetown thereby adding lodging and other cost. Both transportation
and skilled labor naturally featured as significant cost drivers for hinterland contracts.
c. Limited Contractor Pool. Project implementation was adversely impacted because of the small
number of local contractors available to bid for works. The project had to rely on local
contractors for the works component because the size of the contracts was not large enough to
attract foreign contracting firms. For instance, the contract for a water system at Lethem near the
Brazilian border, with a cost of only US$28,000 had to be tendered four times before a local
contractor was able to be qualified to execute the contract. Even then, the contractor eventually
could not complete the job which had to be redone by a contractor from Georgetown at
significant additional expense to the project.
S.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
a. Cumbersome Procurement Procedures. Guyana's procurement system requires considerable
involvement of the Cabinet before contracts over US$43,000 equivalent for goods/supplies and
US$64,000 equivalent for works are awarded. Because of the low threshold for the authority to
award contracts by implementation agencies (or the related Ministries) virtually all 86 contracts
under the project had to be approved by the Cabinet. Other bottlenecks in the system relate to the
appointment of the members of the evaluation committees, scheduling projects for review at the
Tender Board, and obtaining the Cabinet decision following a Cabinet discussion and approval of
bid packages. Due to the emergency nature of the project, the Government agreed to "fast track"
the procurement process for this project. It was agreed to set up standing group of evaluators for
the works, goods and services to be procured under the project, establish a monitoring system to
identify and deal with delays and to agree on deadlines by which certain procurement steps were
to be implemented. While the Government made a good faith effort to live up to the agreement,
there were several breakdowns in terms of delayed approvals that slowed project implementation.
b. Slow Decision Making Processes. When it became obvious around mid-2000 that the
procurement auditor would be able to undertake only four of the six procurement audits
stipulated in the contract, it was proposed to the Government that the procurement auditing firm
should second an engineer to assist the PCU with procurement and engineering supervision
services in lieu of the two remaining audits. No formal response was ever received from the
Government. Simnilarly, given the relatively high failure rate of wells financed under the project,
the possibility of undertaking a hydrological mapping of the affected areas, using more precise
scientific instruments to identify likely water sources was proposed by the task team to the
Government in August 2001. In addition, the option of providing alternative water source (other
than wells), along the lines of using catchment tanks and reservoirs on hillsides as in Jamaica, was
also proposed as an alternative approach which could be explored further for remote communities
in Guyana. Again, the Government failed to respond. These failures to respond by the
Government might have resulted in missed opportunities to strengthen procurement and project
supervision at the PCU as well as to assess a cost-effective alternative to supplying water to
Guyana's remote and dispersed populations.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
a. Weak Staffing Arrangement. Despite agreement with IDA to the contrary, assigned staff
financed under the Credit were not initially being used exclusively for project-related tasks. Staff
- 9-



were being asked to do routine administrative tasks (typing, copying, etc.) and were not provided
with appropriate support assistance. In addition, for GUYWA, after the need for a second
engineer was established, it took GUYWA a considerable amount of time to fill the position. Even
after someone was hired he was frequently distracted by non-project related assignments.
Furthermore, the implementing agencies, except GS&WC, suffered significant staffing turnover
during the project.
b. Lack of Uniform Design Standards. The failure to have uniform design standards complicated
the implementation of the Potable Water Service Recovery and Restoration Program
implemented by both GUYWA & GS&WC. Both entities use different specifications for PVC
pipes, differing engineering practices for pipe laying and pressure testing. Also, the lack of
uniform design standards lead to preparation of significantly different bidding documents for
similar activities resulting in bidding responses of markedly different prices. Furthermore, there is
no uniform requirement for applying standard engineering tests and the practice of leaving the test
results under the safe keeping and control of contractors was prevalent. This approach creates an
unacceptable level of risk of tampering. The frequent lack of geotechnical investigations and
systematic soils testing has also tended to contribute to over-designed structures.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project cost details are given in Annex 2. Under the Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery
and Regeneration Program, the cost of Drainage and Irrigation component increased by 19%,
from US$ 3.966 million to US$4.720 million due to the procurement of additional mobile and
gravel pumps with the funds that were originally earmarked for GUYWA. IDA's financing of the
D&I component amounted to about US$4.257 million equivalent. HD's component increased by
37%, from US$0.17 million to US$0.233 million due to the funding of 13 automatic weather
stations and related data retrieval and processing equipment. IDA funded 100% of the HD
component. The Potable Water Service Recovery & Restoration Program experienced declines.
Both the Recovery and Regeneration component (US$.935 million vs. US$1.145 million planned)
and the Drought Mitigation Measures component (US$3.249 million vs. US$3.980 million
planned) experienced declines of about 18%. IDA financing for both components amounted to
US$0.760 and US$2.643 million respectively. The Georgetown Flood Protection Component
experienced only about a 4% decline in cost from US$0.622 vs. US$0.598. IDA financing
amounted to US$0.592 million. Project Coordination experienced a significant increase in cost of
nearly 65% (from US$0.318 million to US$0.524 million) because of inclusion of the cost of the
procurement audit as part of the component, which is fully funded by IDA.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
I Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration Program
a. Drainage & Irrigation. Likely. Under the Technical Co-operation Program of the IDB-financed
Agriculture Sector Loan, five Water User Associations (WUAs) have been established under the
Mahaica-Mahaicony-Abary scheme to manage the secondary D&I system on a pilot basis.
Following an initial review period, the experiment will be extended to other areas, if successful.
The ultimate aim is to delegate to WUA's the full control for funding, operating and maintaining
the local irrigation water system. Early indications are that the pilot program is functioning well
- 10-



and the operation and maintenance of many of the pumps and drainage and irrigation facilities that
have been provided under this project are likely to benefit from this initiative. However if the
efforts to involve the users in the management of irrigation facilities is unsuccessful, then the
sustainability of this component is likely to be questionable.
b. Hydrometeorological Services. Likely. At an average of about US$290 per station per month,
the cost of operating and maintaining the automatic weather stations is not particularly high. In
addition an extensive training program in the use of the stations was included in the supply
contract. However, operations and maintenance is staff intensive, requiring six trips per station
per year to ensure that the sensitive equipment on the stations are operating properly. Plans are
already underway to contract out the data retrieval and servicing of the automatic weather
stations to the private sector. Furthermore the Canadian equipment supplier is planning to
establish an agency office in Guyana which would ensure the ready availability of spare parts.
II Potable Water Service Recovery & Restoration Program Likely. Both GUYWA and GS&WC
have recently been merged into single company to be run by a private operator under a
performance-based management contract. The terms of the management contract call for the
implementation of a Hinterland Strategy and there are expectations that the new company will
place greater emphasis upon operation and maintenance issues. The management contract is
expected to go into effect around October 1, 2002.
III Georgetown Flood Protection Component. Likely. Even though the ownership of the pumps
remain with the Civil Defense Commission, operational control is currently the responsibility of
the City of Georgetown. The task team held extensive discussions with the City Engineer on the
operational and maintenance requirements of the pumps and visited the City's stores and
workshop to undertake a final assessment of the capabilities of staff and availability of spare parts
for operating the City's other equipment. The City provided assurances that the pumps will be
adequately maintained and current budget contains an incremental allocation for their operation
and maintenance.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A consultant discussed a maintenance tracking system of major categories of works and
equipment financed under the project with the project implementing agencies during the
implementation completion mission. With respect to the Drainage and Irrigation component, plans
are being put in place to involve the Water Users Association in areas having facilities that were
rehabilitated and/or constructed under the project. The mobile and gravel pumps have been
permanently allocated to regions who are then held accountable for smooth running of their
assigned equipment. As the pumps would be for the exclusive use of a particular region, the
region concerned will likely be more willing to invest in operators and allocate budgetary
resources for operational expenses. Concerning data retrieval and the operation and maintenance
of the automatic weather stations, the Chief Meteorological Officer has sought and obtained the
authorization of the Ministry of Agriculture to contract out the maintenance of the stations. With
respect to the transition arrangement for the operations of the facilities constructed under Potable
Water Service Recovery & Restoration Program, both GUYWA and GS&WC have recently been
merged into a single company (Guyana Water Incorporated (GWI)) to be operated under a
performance-based management contract. Proposals from multinational water utilities were
- 1 1 -



received around mid-July 2002. The Government has recently completed its review'of the
proposals received. The management contract is expected to go into effect around October 1,
2002. Regarding the Georgetown Flood Protection Component, the City of Georgetown entered
into an agreement through an exchange of letters with the Civil Defense Commission on the terms
of the operational transfer of the five pumps to the city. The agreement also includes a
commitment for proper maintenance of the pumps.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Highly Satisfactory. The project formed part of the World Bank's global response to assist
developing countries that had been severely impacted by the 1997 ENSO phenomenon. While as
an emergency operation the project does not directly support any key policy and institutional
reform measures, the project was designed to reinforce the assistance already being provided in
non-emergency sector operations financed by IDA and other bilateral and multilateral donors. The
design called for the five original implementing agencies to be responsible primarily for the
implementation aspects (design, bid preparation, supervision of construction, etc.). The project
financial and management aspects were concentrated in the Project Coordinating Unit which was
responsible for contracting the works or services, preparing and submitting all withdrawal
applications, paying the contractors, and maintaining a common special account for the project.
This design led to several practical benefits. Only one special account was maintained for the five
(later four) implementing agencies. Withdrawal applications were sent to the IDA from one
originating point, and thus staffing demands were minimized, an important consideration in a
resource-constrained environment. On the audit side, internal control was considerably enhanced
as the need for individual audits of each implementing agencies was obviated. Finally when the
offices of one of the implementing agencies was burnt down, documents relating to the project
were easily reassembled from the copies at the PCU. IDA spent 23.8 staff weeks from its internal
budgetary resources to prepare, appraise and negotiate the project at a cost of US$94,500.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. IDA supervision effort was satisfactory. Despite the fact that the project was an
emergency project which did not directly support institutional development the task team exerted
significant efforts to complement the institutional development efforts of the other on-going
sector operations. Initiatives taken by the task team included taking steps to strearnline the
procurement and financial management arrangements for the project. The efforts paid off in the
relative speed with which IDA funds were commnitted. The task team encouraged GUYWA and
GS&WC to harmonize the design standards and specifications as it did not make sense for the
two institutions responsible for potable water to have different standards'for pipe laying, pressure
testing, PVC pipe specifications, etc. Also, IDA was very careful to require very simple design of
the computerized financial management accounting system used to prepare the project
management reports PMRs (now financial monitoring reports-FMIRs) to be closely based on the
existing government accounting system. Only the financial reports were fully integrated and
automated, while the procurement reports were relegated to templates that were manually
updated. This innovative approach enabled the system to be built very cheaply and this served as a
best practice model in the Region. Efforts were made to mainstream environmental aspects in the
project design and construction activities. Several attempts, including contracting out to an NGO
- 12 -



or the University of Guyana, to obtain baseline data for the project development indicators were
unsucessful. Finally, efforts to recommend the review of an alternative mode of supplying potable
water to remote hinterland communities using the Jamaican model were not pursued by Guyanese
authorities. Such a review would have provided a useful opportunity for fostering cross-country
learning among Caribbean countries. IDA spent about 51.5 staff weeks (or 67.5 including
overhead) from its internal budgetary resource to supervise the project at a cost of about
US$192,200 or (US$302,200 including overhead).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Despite the emergency status of the project, IDA attempted to address some of the
systemic problems of project implementation in Guyana, such as cumbersome procurement
processes and lack of proper operation and maintenance of infrastructure facilities. The project
was successful in mitigating the effects of the 1997 El Nifio which was manifested in Guyana in
the form of drought. The data collection and dissemination of hydrometeorological data has been
significantly improved under this project. Despite the geographical dispersion, extensive facilities
were constructed under the project for riverine and hinterland communities. The Amerindian
communities are already benefiting from the project-supported facilities. These facilities would be
operated by a management contractor following the hiring of a management contractor to run the
recently established GWI. The mobile pumps financed under the project were extremely useful in
mitigating the effects of the 1999/2000 floods as well as May/June 2002 floods.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory: Project preparation started in earnest after the Government declared a state of
emergency on March 26, 1998. The Head of the CDC, who was also the Head of the Presidential
Secretariat, Office of the President, was responsible for coordinating all ENSO relief. Following
the needs assessment the Government worked closely with the IDA team to prepare the project.
The Government agreed to address the cumbersome procurement process in Guyana by
committing itself to "fast track" the procurement arrangements under the project, including
agreeing to deadlines for taking specific actions in the review cycle for bidding documents.
Project team access to the President's Secretariat and to key Ministers for resolution of intractable
issues was also an important sign of Borrower commitment. The Government also took steps to
increase the budgetary allocation to the implementing agencies participating in the project to
accommodate the incremental budget called for in the project financing plan. The Government
also made available to the IDA all the studies that had been prepared on the status of drainage and
irrigation facilities and the extent of coverage of the potable water services in the hinterland areas.
Finally the Government agreed to the project implementation arrangements and quickly identified
the staff as well as the office space needed.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Even with
budget constraints, the project never lacked counterpart funding. At the same time, despite the
agreement to "fast track" procurement under the project, bureaucratic delays occurred during the
early phase of project implementation. However, when this was brought to the Government's
attention, decisive actions were taken to address the situation. Among such actions were'
establishing standing evaluation committees from which members could be drawn to evaluate
- 13 -



specific bid offers, setting up deadlines for critical steps in the process and implementing a
procurement tracking system to pinpoint the bottlenecks in the review process. The procurement
actions under the project were given expeditious review at the Tender Board and priority in
Cabinet deliberations. The Government facilitated field visits to remote Amerindian communities
where facilities were being constructed and/or rehabilitated under the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Overall, the performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory even
though there was wide variation in their individual performance. All the implementation agencies,
except GUYWA met their physical targets. All of the implementing agencies except the PCU and
GS&WC experienced moderate staffing problems. GUYWA took some time before it was able to
recruit a second engineer and NDIB experienced significant staff turnover. Toward the end of the
project, HD lost its two most senior meteorologists, one to retirement the other to emigration. All
the implementing agencies required their staff assigned to the project to also undertake other
tasks. The PCU's coordinating role remained an issue throughout the project. The issue, which
was not satisfactorily resolved throughout implementation, related to the extent the PCU should
become involved in actual implementation as opposed to limiting itself to passively receiving and
forwarding communications from the implementing entities without reviewing, analyzing, or
otherwise facilitating coordination and implementation activities. To compensate for this gap,
IDA staff had to maintain greater direct contact with the staff of the implementing entities and
provided models to help them in preparation of their reports.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall the Borrower performance was satisfactory despite the implementation
problems cited above. The Government took steps to mitigate the problems of procurement which
has plagued many projects in Guyana. Adequate counterpart funding was available on a timely
basis. While there were implementation problems, the overall execution went relatively smoothly.
There was only one extension of the project closing date for only four months. The Government's
commitment to the project remained high and the beneficiaries included a significant proportion of
the urban poor and Amerindians communities.
8. Lessons Learned
Many of the lessons learned are country specific but at the same time, several of them have wider
applicability. Among most borrowers, damages associated with disasters usually reflect the
results of: (i) the disaster itself; (ii) cumulative neglect and deferred maintenance over time and
(iii) weak or ineffective operational and institutional systems and framework. Separating out the
specific impact of these factors is not an easy task.
In Guyana, after decades of neglect, the country's infrastructure, including its drainage and
irrigation and potable water systems, was in a serious state of disrepair before El Niio. Similarly,
with respect to the operation of the various sector agencies, budget constraints,
inadequately-skilled staff, high turnover, poor or absent enforcement of multiple norms and
standards, all had a cumulative negative impact. When the drought came, the already weak system
collapsed as many of the back-up sources (catchment tanks, river water, individual wells)
disappeared.
- 14 -



The Government made commendable efforts in its relief and reconstruction efforts. However,
without more resources and efforts aimed at mainstreaming appropriate maintenance policies and
improved operational and institutional support, the facilities provided under this Credit will be
vulnerable to future disasters.
Some of the main lessons learned with respect to the above points are the following:
(a)   Early Warning and Emergency Preparedness. Having a well-fimctioning
early-warning system and being prepared for disasters is an important element in the development
process. In Guyana, in spite of several pressing problems, the Government was able to recognize
the potential impact of the oncoming drought. It took steps in seeking UNDP assistance to
dimension the impact and to organize international support for both relief and reconstruction
efforts.
(b)   Commitment. The Government demonstrated early commitment to the relief and
reconstruction effort. Apart from providing access and data to lender and donor agencies, the
Presidential Secretariat assumed responsibility for the coordination of assistance programs
through the Civil Defence Commission. Efforts were made to ensure that there were no delays in
the contracts-approval process and adequate counterpart funds were made available in a timely
manner. This provided a clear signal of the priority accorded to the relief and reconstruction
process.
(c)   Need for a More Efficient Procurement System. Even with the full commitment of the
Government to put the project on a "fast track" approval process, the weakness of the existing
procurement system quickly became apparent. Among some of these weaknesses are low
thresholds requiring Cabinet approvals, a cumbersome process for reviewing, selecting and hiring
contractors and consultants and long delays in transmitting decisions among the various entities.
In this project, efforts were made, with some success, to address some of these deficiencies.
However, the process was not always smooth and while the contracting process for this credit
was shorter than normal, the country could benefit from a more streamlined overall procurement
process. The Government is considering reforming its procurement processes with the assistance
of the IDA. A new procurement law has been prepared. It was tabled in Parliament on May 24,
2002 and was passed on May 30, 2002. It calls for a seven-member National Board to administer
the National Procurement and Tender Administration to be set up. On-going discussions are still
underway between the Government and IDA regarding how the new law could best strengthen
Guyana's procurement processes.
(d)   Slow Decision-Making Process. As project implementation proceeded and various
obstacles were identified, efforts were made to find solutions to such obstacles. Unfortunately,
the system was apparently not geared for such an approach and so there were several missed
opportunities. For example, after it became clear that the policy of GUYWA was to accept a high
ratio of dry wells in the interior, IDA staff suggested that a more cost-efficient way was to hire
technical experts who had the tools to better locate potential water sources. Additionally, it was
recommended that visits be made to Jamaica which had similar potable water problems, to see
how they are using local low-cost appropriate-technology solutions. Recommendations were also
- 15 -



made to utilize the skills of the procurement auditor to help local contractors and consultants to
become better prepared in executing project works. In all of these recommendations, there was
initial Government agreement with IDA recommendations. However, no follow-up actions were
taken and so potentially valuable opportunities were lost.
(e)   Norms and Standards. The lack of uniform civil engineering standards led to differing
designs and specifications (e.g. in pressure test requirements, use of sandbeds and design
specifications) for relatively simple tasks such as supply and installation of PVC pipes by
GUYWA and GS&WC, the two entities which implemented potable water components under the
project. One result of this was large price variation in bids by contractors for similar jobs. Use of
outdated well-drilling practices, especially in finding water in hinterland areas, resulted in a
success rate of about 75%. Had the authorities used simple low-cost mapping/exploration
techniques which are readily available on the market, the result would have been much more
favorable. There is a pressing need for the Government to prepare uniform and clear guidelines
regarding the types of engineering tests to which construction materials and engineering structures
would be subjected. It should also place high priority upon protocols for undertaking the tests,
recording and storing the data and interpreting the results. These issues would be addressed
following the hiring of the management contractor to operate GWI.
(f)   Country Absorptive Capacity and Coordination. This being an emergency project, it
was prepared within a relatively short time. Initial contacts and reviews of the operation of the
various project entities show that the scope of works was within their implementation capacity.
However, as works progressed, it became clear that the pool of qualified contractors/consultants
was very limited, the country size and task profile did not easily attract foreign companies, key
staff were frequently being called upon to respond to various emergencies (sea-defence breaches,
pumping-station breakdowns, etc.), the high staff turnover and a lack of skilled staff within the
implementing entities. In combining these factors with the weaknesses in the administrative
processes within the Government and cumbersome procurement, it became clear that had the
intervention of the Presidential Secretariat and the responsible ministers not occurred during the
implementation of this project, it would have faced implementation delays. In light of this and the
implementation problems that have affected other IDA-financed projects in Guyana, in preparing
future investment projects, the limited absorptive capacity of the country should be an important
factor to consider..
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
As the drought worsened to the extent of crop losses and potable water scarcity became
visible, the Government declared a State of Emergency on March 26, 1998 and gave the Civil
Defence Commission (CDC) an entity within the Presidential Secretariat the responsibility for
coordinating all ENSO relief and reconstruction/rehabilitation efforts.
Damage assessment reports were prepared to document the nature and extent of the problems
and several donor meetings took place with UNDP's assistance. The International Donor
- 16 -



Community responded with an assistance programme aimed at addressing identified needs.
The Bank, IDB and other international agencies were asked to assist in the recovery phase.
The Bank responded positively and a credit of US$9million was agreed with the Government
of Guyana as spelt out in the Project Data Sheet. In November 1998 the project was launched
with the following objectives:
(1)     Help to restore the country's agricultural capacity in drought stricken are
areas through the reduction of vulnerability to hydrologic extreme.
(11)   Help to restore safe and reliable potable water supply service to drought
affected marginal, urban, hinterland and riverain communities.
(1 11) Help to restore flood protection in the low-lying areas of the City of Georgetown.
The entities with whom IDA had formulated the Project contents to address the objectives
were NDIB, Hydromet Division, Ministry of Agriculture, Guywa, GS&WC and PEU, suffice
it to say that the PEU was later disbanded and its responsibility given to the CDC. They were
all required under the coordination of the CDC/PCU to design work programmes in
accordance with the requirements to address the objectives as given in the PAD, extending
over a three year period - 1999-2001.
Accordingly NDIB, Guywa and GS&WC were required to sign subsidiary agreements on a
back to back basis of the main Credit Agreement with the Government of Guyana represented
by the Minister of Finance.
The Project Coordinating Unit was established in the Civil Defence Commission with
responsibility for environmental review and the supervision of the implementation of
mitigation measures. The PCU was mandated to process all payment request from entities and
to submit quarterly progress reports to IDA and GOG. The PCU was responsible for getting
the annual financial audit and the bi-annual (Procurement Audit) of the project conducted in
time with the Project's progress and schedules.
The period 1999-2001 was fluxed with numerous inhibiting factors that contributed to delays
in project progress. There was the flood of 1999/2000, civil unrest due to pre and post
elections disturbances where contractors had to demobilize and as the project approached its
closure, November 30, 2001 the impact of the September 11 incident in the U.S.A added to
further delays in project completion which eventually caused the Government to request an
extension of the closing date.
Despite early setbacks, NDIB completed its revised work programme in which sluices and
hydraulic structures were rehabilitated/constructed and mobile pumps procured thus
addressing the objective of restoring Agricultural capacity of approximately 275,000 acres of
fannlands of which 6 to 2 benefited. The mobile pumps assisted with the removal of flood
waters along the East Coast of Demerara during the high precipitation of 1999/2000 thus
- 17 -



saving the lives of cattle and demolition of homes.
Complementary was the work of Hydromet Division of the Ministry of Agriculture where
thirteen stations within its net work of Hydrometeorological stations were upgraded some to
automatic, where real time data is obtained giving the Division the capacity to make more
meaningful weather forecast. The division conducted several workshops across the country
where farners, government officials and residents were made aware of the El Nino
phenomenon. A total of thirty seven papers on El Nino related topics were presented by
eminent persons on the subject with encouraging participation from the gatherings. Farmers
are now requesting that weather forecasts be a regular feature in the printed news media.
Potable water restoration to drought affected areas was the responsibility of GS&WC and
Guywa. GS&WC had water services pipes laid with metered connections to four marginal
urban areas namely, North and South Riumveldt to the benefit of 900 households, Festival
City to the of 672 households, South Riumveldt Park to the benefit of 648 households and
Agricola to the benefit of 360 households.
Guywa laid water services pipe at Lethem to the benefit of 500 households,
Perseverance/Mahaica connecting villages of De Hoop, Little Biabu and Champayne to the
benefit of 800 households. Water service was also provided to Mabaruma, Ituni, Mathews
Ridge, and Mahadia to a total benefit of 900 households.
Drought mitigating measures by hand dug wells in Region 9 was completed in thirty three
villages to the benefit of a remote population of 4000 persons. Forty four small diameter
drilled wells with small hand pumps were installed in Regions 9, 8, 7, 2 and 1 with a total
benefit to 20,500 persons. Windmills and solar systems to drive, pumps were utilized at eight
locations.
Georgetown flood protection was to be achieved by the installation of five mobile pumps at
sluices on the western end of the city. The executing of this component of work was given to
the PCU since the PEU of the Ministry of Works was disbanded. It is estimated that during.
high precipitation and high tide conditions persons living in low-lying areas of the City ought
to be free of flood waters. GS&WC intimated that pumps would assist in keeping the
sewerage chambers free from water during high precipitation. These pumps however, would
be operated and maintained by the M&CC.
The project has had its financial audits for years 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 by a private firm
appointed by the Auditor General with favorable opinions.
As required in the Credit Agreement, Biannual Procurement Audits of the Project had to be
conducted. Four such audits were completed by the closure of the project through an
International Procurement Consulting Firm. Their observations and recommendations are
contained in their final report.
A requirement of the Development Credit Agreement was that an Environmental Specialist be
- 18 -



attached to the PCU to assist the Project Coordinator with supervision of environmental
mitigating measures relating to_projects under construction. Suffice it to say that a specialist
was appointed who made site visits and submitted reports against a check list that formed part
of bidding documents.
The Government made every effort to fast track and monitor the projects under the project
ensuring that all bottle necks are cleared at the monthly Cabinet sub-committee meeting on the
Capital Works Programme. Counterpart funds as defined in the annual budget were always
available for disbursement against eligible expenditures.
The World Bank contribution via its team led by Mr. Thakoor Persaud must be complemented
for their patience, understanding and guidance both from their Washington offices and during
their nine Supervision missions of the Project.
The executing entities performance is commendable and should not be measured only by the
performance indicators for sluices and wells but also by development of those persons who
were directly involved with the Project which would auger well for the entity and country as a
whole.
The project via its contribution to the objectives provided employment over the period to 332
workers in various skills.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None.
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
-~~~~~~~~Lr, s~;-. Mp:I~              L  -
Indicator / Matrix                            Projected in Actual/Latest
the last PSR  Estimate
Increase in the production of sugar rice and other  NA         NA
foodstuffs to pre-drought levels over three years
Getting sluices and drainage systems repaired      13          13
and rehabilitated, pumps acquired and installed
and operating
Increase in the proportion of population with access  NA       NA
to reliable and safe potable water services in drought
affected areas over 3 years
Number of vulnerable households benefiting from     9,950        9,950
access to potable water.
NA: GOG: did not have statistics for affected zones
- 20 -



--  -    Qu    '~~~~~~~~~~~~inidictos 
1999       2000        2001       2002         Total
Apr Act     Apr Act    Apr Act    Apr Act    Apr      Act
I Agriculture Product and Recov. Program
1.1 Drainage & Inrigatfon
No.ofSluiceRehabilitated             11   0      6   3      0    9     0    1     17       13
No. of Struct. & Rehab Works         0    0      2   0      3   23     0   48      5       71
No. of Conservancies                 0    0      0   0      0    1     0    5      0        1
Numberof Pumps                       10   9      3   0      0    4     0    6     13       19
1.2 Strengthening Hydromet Network
Weather Stations Upgraded             6   0      6    0     0    0     0    0     12        0
Automatic Weather Stations            3   0      6    0     0   13     0    0      9       13
Dis. Seminars/Video Program           0   0      0   0      0    1     0    0      0        1
Dis. Seminars/Workshops              4    2      4   4      0    2     0    0      8        8
2 Portable Water Service Recovery Program
2.1 Recovery and Restoratfon Program
Four/six Inch Pipes Laid (miles)      6  0.25    14 29.8    0  48.7    0    3     20      81.75
22 Drought Mitigation Measures
Hand dug wellsconstructed            15   4      15  4      20  25     0    0     50       33
Four Inch shallow wells constrd.     15   0      35   5     0   17     0    0     50       23
Six-inch wells constructed           14   0      14   2     0   25     0    0     28       27
Ten-inch wells constructed            0   0      4    0     0    0      0   0      4        0
Hand pumps installed                 45   4      55   6     0   69     0    0     100      79
Solar Systems constructed             0   0      1    0      1   3     0    0      2        3
Windmill Systems constructed          0   0      3    0      3   6      0   0      6        6
Storage Tank                          1   0      1    0     0    0     0    0      2        0
New Hinterland Water Schemes          0   0      0    0     0    2     0    1      0        3
3 Georgetown Flood Protection Rest Prog.
Sluice Rehabilitated                  2   0      0    0     0    0      0   0      2        0
Pumps Installed                       2   0      0    0     0    5      0   0      2        5
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal Estimates          Latest Estimates
Planned    IDA       GOG      Actual     IDA      GOG
Drainage & Irrigation          3.966     3.470    0.496     4.720     4.257    0.463
Hydromet Services              0.170     0.170    0.000     0.233     0.233    0.000
to                         4.__ 0             '.*Ima
Recovery and Regeneration      1.145     1.010    0.135     0.935     0.760     0.175
Drought Mitigation Measures    3.980     3.482    0.498     3.249     2.643     0.606
Georgetown Flood Protection    0.622     0.550    0.072     0.598     0.592     0.006
Project Cordination            0.318     0.318    0.000     0.524     0.390     0.134
Planned    IDA      % IDA     Actual     IDA     % IDA
Drainage & Irrigation          3.966     3.470     87%      4.720     4.257     90%
Hydromet Services              0.170     0.170     100%     0.233     0.233     100%
Sut5t49
Recovery and Regeneration      1.145     1.010     88%      0.935     0.760     81%
Drought Mitigation Measures    3.980     3.482     87%      3.249     2.643     81%
S  9t-bt  ..                  .      .9        8o        .8      3~      ~'8~1 i ' -
Georgetown Flood Protection    0.622     0.550     88%      0.598     0.592     99%
Project Cordination            0.318     0.318     100%     0.524     0.390     74%
7Tt-a                 W_.__      208
Planned    GOG      % GOG     Actual    GOG      % GOG
Drainage & Irrigation          3.966     0.496     13%      4.720     0.463      10%
Hydromet Services              0.170     0.000      0%      0.233     0.000      0%
-;iSubt6ta ] .1     i     ~     .1 _.4                        . _  _
Recovery and Regeneration      1.145     0.135     12%      0.935     0.175      19%
Drought Mitigation Measures    3.980     0.498     13%      3.249     0.606      19%
Georgetown Flood Protection    0.622     0.072     12%      0.598     0.006      1%
Project Cordination            0.318     0.000      0%      0.524     0.134     26%
-22 -



Imp. Agency        Planned  Actual  Variance  % Diff
NDIB               3.966    4.720    0.754     19.0%
Hydromet           0.170    0.233    0.063     37.1%
GUYWA              3.614    2.568   -1.046    -28.9%
GS&WC              1.511    1.616    0.105      6.9%
PCU -GT            0.622    0.598   -0.024     -3.9%
PCU -Cord          0.318    0.524    0.206     64.8%
Project Expenditures by Project Components
Component                  Planned   Actual  Variance  % Diff
Dranage & Irrigation        3.966   4.720    0.754      19.0%
Hydromet Services           0.170    0.233   0.063      37.1%
Recovery and Regeneration   1.145    0.935    0.21     -18.3%
Drought Mitigation Measures  3.980   3.249   -0.731    -18.4%
Georgetown Flood Protection  0.622   0.598   -0.024     -3.9%
Project Cordination         0.318    0.524    0.206     64.8%
-23 -



1 National Drainage & Irrigation            WORKS             1,684,676  1,728,759
GOODS             2,905,971  2,829,836
CONSULTANCY        154,833    161,754
2 Hydromet Division                         WORKS                0          0
GOODS              178,649    178,649
CONSULTANCY        51,382     54,495
3 Guyana Water Authority                    WORKS             2,590,299  2,177,227
GOODS              233,618    233,684
CONSULTANCY        148,994    156,741
4 Georgetown Sewerage & Water                               _                   X
5 Georgetown Flood Protection               WORKS              28,023     31,552
GOODS              551,728    551,728
CONSULTANCY         15,000     15,000
6 Project Coordinating Unit                WORKS               18,907     18,907
GOODS              43,815      44,633
CONSULTANCY        409,526    330,922
ADMIN EXPENSES      97,171    109,187
OTHER               19,800     20,433
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WORKS               5,852,421  5,572,818
GOODS              3,913,781   3,838,530
CONSULTANCY          779,735    718,912
ADMIN EXPENSES        97,171    109,187
OTHER                 19,800     20,433
- 24 -



(Appraisal Estimate)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category  ICB      NCB     Other    Total
Works               4.20     2.64     0.56     7.40
(4.20)   (1.60)  (0.40)   (6.20)
Goods               1.60     0.00     0.60     2.20
(1.60)   0.00    (0.60)   (2.20)
Services            0.00     0.00     0.60     0.60
(0.00   (0.00)   (0.60     0.60
Total IDA          (5.80)    (1.60)  (1.60)   (9.00)
(Actual/Latest Estimate)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Catego     ICB     NCB     Other     Total
Works               2.851    2.722    0.00    5.573
(2.851)  (1.607)  (0.00)  (4.458)
Goods               2.728    0.370   0.741    3.839
(2.728)  (0.356)  (0.614)  (3.698)
Services            0.163    0.00    0.556    0.719
(0.163)  (0.00)   (0.556)  (0.719)
Administration & Other                           0.128
(0.000)
Total IDA          (5.742)  (1.963)  (1.170)  (8.875)
-25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
K                                                               ___        _
Losses   Losses  Losses   Total
Avoided Avoided Avoided   Losses   Total    Total  Total Net
Year  lnvestrnt  O&M    El Nino  La Nina  Regular Avoided  Cost   Net Rev  Benefi
2000    2.266                    8.692    0.000   8.692    2.266   0.869    -1.397
2001    2.266   0.034                     2.034   2.034     2.3    0.203    -2.097
2002    0.199   0.068                     2.034   2.034    0.267   0.203    -0.064
2003            0.068   20.300            0.000   20.300   0.068   2.030    1.962
2004            0.068                     2.034   2.034    0.068   0.203    0.135
2005            0.068                     0.136   0.136    0.068   0.136    0.068
2006             0.74            8.692    2.034   10.726   0.740    1.073   0.333
2007            0.068   20.300            0.000   20.300   0.068   2.030    1.962
2008            0.068                     2.034   2.034    0.068   0.203    0.135
2009            0.068                     2.034   2.034    0.068    0.203   0.135
2010            0.068                     2.034   2.034    0.068    0.203   0.135
2011             0.74   20.300            0.000   20.300   0.740    2.030   1.290
2012            0.068            8.692    2.034   10.726   0.068    1.073   1.005
2013            0.068                     2.034    2.034   0.068    0.203   0.135
2014            0.068                     2.034    2.034   0.068    0.203   0.135
2015            0.068   20.300            0.000   20.300   0.068    2.030   1.962
2016             0.74                     2.034    2.034   0.740    1.277   0.537
2017            0.068                     0.000    0.000   0.068    1.360   0.068
2018            0.068            8.692    2.034   10.726   0.068    1.073   1.005
2019            0.068   20.300            0.000   20.300   0.068    2.030   1.962
IERR             16%
NPV in US$mIn    $1.43
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No.'of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
'  (egg. 2 Economists, i FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year-   Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/98                       3   ECON, FINA,WATS
01/99                       3   ECON. FINA, CONS.
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/99                       3   ECON, FINA, ENGR
Supervision
11/99                       2   ECON,FINA                         S             S
01/00                       3   ECON, FINA, ENGR                   S            S
07/00                       3   ECON, FINA, ENGR                   S            S
11/00                       3   ECON, FINA, ENGR                  S             S
04/01                       3   ECON, FINA, CNTRY COORD            S            S
09/01                       3   ECON, FINA, ENGR                   S            S
ICR
03/02                       3    ECON, FINA, ENGR
ECON - Economist; FINA - Finanacial Anaylst; WATS - Water and Sanitation Specialist, CONS -
Consultant; CNTRY COORD - Country Coordinator, ENGR - Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              10.7                       36.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   13.1                       58.1
Supervision                             67.5                      302.2
ICR                                      6.0                        8.2
Total                                   97.3                      404.9
Supervision includes overhead.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
3I Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
OL Physical                            O H *SUOM       O N   O NA
L Financial                            OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Institutional Development            O H O SU O M    O N   0 NA
L Environmental                        O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Gender                         OH OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)         O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
L Private sector development           0 H O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
Li Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS      OLU    OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
L Overall                                          OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Oi Preparation                                     OHS OS      OU     O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O S    0 U    0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                O HS O S    0 U    0 HU
Ol Overall                                         OHS OS      O U    O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Appraisal Document: El Nino Emergency Assistance Project, September 28, 1998
Implementation Completion Report, Project Coordination Unit, March 2002
Entities Project Profile, Works & Goods, Project Coordinating Unit, March 2002
Final Report, Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners, March, 2002
Project Information NDIB and PCU Projects, April 15, 2002
Implementation Completion Report, Hydrometeorological Supply and Dissemination Program
Maintenance and Operations Cost of El Nino Stations for one year
Contract Disbursement Report as July, 2002
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Project Contracts and Map References
Natlonal Drainage
Works
1 New Sluice at Endeavour      NCB WB-NDIB/08/991W              1        30-Dec-99     110,072     102,940
Rehabilitation of Structures
Lot I to 7
2 23 Structures at Seaford Canal  NCB WB-NDIB/10-1/99lW         2         10-Jul-00    477,531    432,626
3 Golden Grove Sea Sluice      NCB WB-NDIB/10-2V99/W            3         31-Jul-00     58,594      56,295
4 Coverden & Triumph Sluices   NCB WB-NDIBI10-3/991W            4        20-May-00      12,581      12,539
5 Belfield Sea Sluice          NCB WB-NDIB/10-4/99/W            5        20-May-00     192,967     192,028
6 New Sluice at Red Lock       NCB WB-NDIB/10-5199/W            6        25-May-00     210.266     314,390
7 Uno Creek Spill Weir         NCB WB-NDIB/10-7/99/W            7        14-Aug-00      22,788      22,770
Rehab. of Control Structures
Lots I to 6
8 Helena #1 River Sluice       NCB WB-NDIB/01-1/OOW             8          2-Oct-00     43,728      37,464
9 Lonsdale River Sluice        NCB WB-NDIB/01-2/00/W            9          2-Oct-00     99,414     121,539
10 Borlan Sluice                NCB WB-NDIB/01-3100/W            10         9-Oct-00     41,278      39,579
11 Adventure Sluice             NCB WB-NDIB/01-4/00/W            11       30-Nov-00      28,877      25,318
12 Eversham Sluice              NCB WB-NDIB/01-5/001W            12       30-Nov-00       8,325       5,463
13 Number 43 Village Sluice     NCB WB-NDIB/01-6/00/W            13       30-Nov-00      34,742      30,703
Rehab of Control Structures
14 Johanna Cecelia/Annadale     NCB WB-NDIB/02-1/00/W            14       29-Dec-00     143,609     135,201
15 Tapakuma Main Canal          NCB WB-NDIB/02-21001W            14       12-Dec-01     199,904     199,904
Goods
16 Supply of 9 Mobile Pumps     ICB  WB-NDIB/1/99/G              NA        26-Apr-99    991,847     991,847
17 Supply of (5) Mobile Pumps   ICB  WB-NDIB/02101/G             NA        17-Oct-01    650,356     650,356
18 Supply of one (1) Gravel Pump  ICB  WB-NDIB/5/99/G            NA       27-Aug-01     110,000     110,000
19 Supply of Vehicles           ICB  WB-NDIB/2199/G              NA       20-Sep-99      39,782      39,782
20 Supply of Computers          NCB WB-NDIB/3/99/G               NA       20-Sep-99      11,407      11,407
Sub Totals b/f                                                                      3,488,068   3,532,151
21 Supply of three (3) Gravel Pumps ICB  WB-NDIB/5/99/G          NA        20-Dec-00    330,000     330,000
22 Supply of three Dredges      ICB  WB-NDIB/03/01/G             NA                     330,000     303,390
23 Supply of Surveying Equip    LNB WB-NDIB/1/00/G               NA        16-Oct-00      3,179       3,179
Construction Materials
24 Supply of Winches            NCB WB-NDIB/4-1/99/G             NA        31-Mar-01     43,560      42,960
25 Supply of Steel Sheet Piles  ICB  WB-NDIB/4-2199/G            NA          9-Jul-01   200,000     151,075
Supp. Of Rubbing Strip mat.  ICB  WB-NDIBI4-4/991G            NA          9-Jul-01
26 Supply of Gabion Baskets     NCB WB-NDIB/4-3199/G             NA         7-Sep-00    195,840     195,840
Services
27 Engineer                          WB-NDIB/1/99/Staff          NA         2-Jun-99     24,712      29,903
28 Accountant                        WB-NDIB12199/Staff          NA         2-Jun-99     18,462      18,462
29 Technician Engineer               WB-NDIB/3/99/Staff          NA         2-Jun-99     12,421      12,421
30 Consultant Engineer               WB-NDIBI4/99/Staff          NA         4-Sep-00     84,132      84,132
31 Mechanical Engineer               WB-NDIB/01/00/Staff         NA       22-May-00      15,106      16,836
- 31 -



I Installation of H DWell8&Pumps  NCB WB-GuywalO11991W      2.1 to 2.11  25-Oct-99      18,742     18,640
2 Insrtallation of W/System at Lethen NCB WB-Guywa/02199lW"R4   7        20-Oct-00      24,901      4,998
3 Installation of W/System at Lethem SB  WB-GuywalO4/99/W "R5   7                       55,000     43,367
4 Construction of 6" Diameter Wells ICB  WB-GuywalO3/991W   1.1 to 2.11  19-Jan-00     795,094    716,052
5 Water Distribution Sys at Mabarum NCB WB-GuywalO6199NW        8        21-Dec-99      68,500     77,403
6 Construction of 4" Dia. Wells  NCB WB-GuywalO71991W       3.1 to 3.16  25-May-00      96,253     80,633
7 Cons of H D Wells & Pumps    RCB WB-GuywalO8/991W         4.1 to 4.19  30-May-00      43,522     43,378
8 Installation of E. Driven Pump Syst NCB WB-Guywa/l10/99lW     6          5-Apr-00     69,198     72,314
9 Cons of 4" Dia Wells in R - 1, 7, 8 NCB WB-Guywa0l1O00W "R'  5.1 to 5.34  3-Aug-00  604,213    315,992
10 Water Supply Project, De Hoop, et ICB  WB-GuywalO02OO/W       9        13-Nov-00     419,977    441,895
Sub Totals c/f                                                                     2,195,401   1,814,672
11 W. Distrib system at M. Ridge  NCB WB-GuywalO3/OOIW           12       13-Nov-00     111,311     123,800
12 Water Distrib System at Ituni     WB-Guywa/040/W              13       23-Jan-01      78,137      90,144
13 Construction of Tank and Trestle  CB  WB-Guywa/05/OOW    16.1 to 16.3                40,925     42.809
14 Installation of Windmill System   WB-GuywalO7/001W        16.1 to 16.3                10,847       9,600
15 Installation of W/System at Mahdia NCB WB-Guywal0O101/W       14                     153,678      96,202
Goods
16 Supply of 4x4 Vehicle        NCB WB-Guywa0l1/99/G             NA       18-May-99      22,891      22,891
17 Supply of Computer Equipment  NCB WB-GuywalO2/99/G            NA       18-May-99       6,986       6,986
18 Supply of windmill systems   ICB  WB-GuywalO4/99/G            20        25-Oct-99     27,380      27,380
19 Supply of Solar Water Systems  ICB  WB-GuywalO5/99/G          22        25-Oct-99     29,283      29,283
20 Supply of Pipes & Fittings - Lethern NCB WB-GuywalO7/99/G     7        26-Nov-99      34,222      34,222
21 Supply of P & Fittings at Mabarum. ICB  WB-GuywalO8/99/G      18       21-Dec-99      99,973      99,973
22 Supply of Pipes & Appurtances  CB  WB-GuywalO4/00/G           NA                       4,442       4,442
23 Supply of 24 Water Storage Tanks  WB-GuywaO/51001G            NA                       2,492       2,492
24 Supply of Pipes & Appurtances  ICB  WB-GuywalO61001G          NA        10-Oct-00      5,949       6,015
Services
25 Engineer I                        WB-GuywalO299/C            NA        25-Jan-01     78,800      90,643
26 Engineer 2                        WB-Guywa/01/99/C            NA         4-Oct-00     35,595      35,595
27 Engineer 3                        WB-GuywaI0l/O1 C           NA        11-Nov-01     11,000      11,000
28 Advertising & Monitoring          WB-Guywa0l1O00/C            NA                      23,599      19.503
.l~~'I-ia -- ---~  -                       -40~~. ~                                        T  i7
Georgetown Sewerage S Water
1 Water Distrib System -NNeldt  NCB WB-GS&WCI011991W             1        7-Sep-99     398,611     368,124
2 Water Distrib System - Festival Cit, NCB WB-GS&WC101/011W     2.1        1-Jun-01    474,308     530,438
3 Water Distrib System -SNeldt  NCB WB-GS&WCI021011W            2.2        1-Jun-01    461,994     522,317
4 Water Distrib System - Agricola  NCB WB-GS&WC/03/011W         2.3        1-Jun-01    195,603     195,494
_____Swerge&      at                                                               .50,56 ;61      3T
- 32 -



Goods
I Supply of 4x4 Vehicle       NCB WB-HYD101/99lG             NA        20-Sep-99     22,890      22,890
2 Supply of Hydromet Equipment  ICB  WB-HYD102V991G         I to 13     29-Oct-00    155,759    155,759
Dissemination Programme
3 Workshops & Video Programme                                                        40,000      42.255
& Newspaper Inserts
Staffing
Technician                       WB-HYD/05/00/C             NA        23-Oct-00      6,950      7,808
Administrative Officer           WB-HYD/04/00/C             NA        23-Oct-00       717         717
Administrabve Officer- 2         WB-HYD/01/01/C             NA     Feb, 2001         3,715      3,715
- 33 -



I Supply of five (5) Mobile Pumps  ICB  WB-PCU/03/00/G      I        15-Feb-01    551,728    551,728
2 Installaion of Mobile Pumps  LNB WB-PCU/01101/W            I        7-Jun-01     28,023     31,552
3 Supervision - Design & Const.   WB-PCU/01/00/C            NA        12-Jul-00    15,000     15,000
Projed Coordinating Unit
Works
1 Renovation of the PCU offices  NCB WB-PCUIO1/98/W         NA       28-Dec-98     18,907     18,907
Goods
1 Supply of Computer and other Equ LNB WB-PCU/02199/G       NA        2-Feb-99     11,991     11,991
2 Supply of Offioe Fumiture  LNB WB-PCUI03/99/G             NA       1 -Feb-99     3,232      3,232
3 Supply of computer an accessorie. NCB WB-PCUW04/99/G      NA       21-May-99      6,030      6,030
4 Supply of 4x4 Vehide       NCB WB-PCU/05/99/G             NA       28-May-99     19,500     20,318
5 Supply of Board Room Fumiture  NCB WB-PCU/01100IG         NA        1-Mar-00      1,192      1,192
6 Supply of A/C units        NCB WB-PCU/02/00/G             NA       20-Sep-00      1,870      1,870
Sub totals cif                                                                   62,722     63,540
PCU - continued
Sub totals b/f                                                                   62,722     63,540
Services
1 Project Coordinator             WB-PCUI01/981C            NA        2-Nov-98     81,776     85,410
2 Project Accountant              WB-PCU/021981C            NA        2-Nov-98     28,380     30,064
3 Environmental Specialist        WB-PCUI03i99IC            NA        1-May-99     13,552     13,552
4 Computer Specialist             WB-PCU/04199lC            NA        27-Apr-99     9,500      9,500
5 Procurement Audit          ICB  WB-PCU/05/99/C            NA        25-Oct-99   244,600    164,099
6 Examination & Verification      WB-PCU/06/99lC            NA        28-Oct-99     5,000       1,667
7 Examination & Verification      Year 2000 Audit           NA                      6,500      6,500
8 Quality Assurance Engineer     VWB-PCU/00/00IC            NA       10-May-00      1,200      1,112
9 Examination & Verification for 2001  Year 2001& 2002 Audit  NA                   12,295      12,295
10 Communication Services                                                            6.723      6.723
11 Administrative Expenses                                   NA                     97,171    109,187
12 installation of Hydromet Stations                         NA                     19,800     20,433
I- 
Total Summary
Entities
NDIB                                                                           4,745,480  4,720,349
Guywa                                                                          2,972,912  2,567,652
GS & WC                                                                        1,530,516  1,616,373
Hydromet Services                                                               230,031     233,114
Georgetown Flood                                                                 594,751    598,280
PCU                                                                             589,219     524,082
NA = Not Applicable for Goods and Consultants
- 34 -



-- "                          ~~~GUYANA
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJ ECT
-PROJECT LOCATION         BY ENTITY.
, . , | . | -: n F . .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r5,,-  : ..-  . NCI A.
NSI.ZN..L C1IA  .C AJu
4-                                                               IP- - . '-  rlf-+Utl AOrlNri r   : .1PC..NDt'
-.-tIJ .  ... ltrE  A'JTh-1- ' J1. r U '..AI
A Tr AyN T i C CEAN N                                 o     .JE l.IJ
so                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATEPCCr9MIKIt'IC.NFR   S! A1
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GrSrWc FL;cD h;'...ln j'':>O|| .tR.-t -
i                                      8\  T t>|IE.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f i Nl!.rtrXIC
IL  I                -MolAP                 I  '''I 
X,  "  ~~~~  -   _   - . Z .  . . -:   '.  :-   ,   .  ,  -   PKIFIAP~~~~~~~~~~~~D'  I I   rif  :1  . 7.1
gi'''  '  '  "  '  ';-'':  -1 ''  ,  -,   ~  _-  C'Pqr'z10F ECR  r.' . . .
* N  ii*N4L"it
R B DE                                     I ,. -                    *Ne-.,..C-A.Ir-
VENEZUELA        .               7         '  e      :
rI ii --- -ION I               I6T ;   ;      I r Gti E
;,   7     ;\\->. -   '   / F E. .2 1=_ ,  1 
N,
-/                               1 '' "65, L'E. it-' I-,  ,  -,
{g_gr- -  >  lb r -t '\ fl            s';; r I
- ~ ~   ~    ~    ~   - -R -. - ;,I9-;- ez@
,~~~~~ , -Vi,, Ml - - .  r     t  -- 7m             0X 2-'     I'" -
'dA     7.~          . 
'    ,P     *-   !        -----  ---", -' @Sy
'-\       ''                                         'r'dfl' /'__! 1' ',
~~~|      ''           l /     -.\l(r  ILI,  j   pt- -l 
J"'N                   U!   SE t (jIl Ii  /  I  I
-   522 _        ~~~REGION     '.k4     . 
51  ~~~VQ  521 ~MoiPTpLO  ' /     ''
! .412,'                        )          ig SURINAME
EGX V i,~RE
BRAZIL                 2 3    Cre .Wioho6h
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hro moS pa're Myh Book
0 ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              andd onoto nhormoyn shown o(
S   %k1; >$fe                 9) j    /  ~~~~~~~~~REGION 6  
aT                                                                    Thr -p p.;-m my on h pot o
Aho W-ni Bk p  n Th. nmnt Wr B-
, t;   r,.,e-.,,-,   r hF'-  P  .A  1 U,  , .   %7  J-  - / <   /X>~~~~~~~~~~~onth Igolnousof oyenton, n 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, -yw                          , ,S,;,-  -  At XS\.d - _ni
., ',,.  .   t--  - X        wS             f                 2   *2S  *  f  =w N~~~~~56'  '
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                   .c -t mpl - t. p. 









IMAGING
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Report No.:  24244
Type:  ICR
I



