Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1801 8-GUA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.8 MILLION (US$9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
FOR AN
EL NINO EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
September 29, 1998
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure SMU
Caribbean CMU
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Effective: September 14, 1998
Currency Unit = Guyana D)ollar
US$1.00 = G$162
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND AClRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                  Civil Defense Commission
CTB                  Central Tender Board
ENSO                 El Ninfo Southern Oscillation
ESAF                 Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
GOG                  Government of Guyana
GS&WC                Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners
GUYWA                Guyana Water Authority
RD                   Hydrometeorological Division
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOH&W                Ministry of Housing and Water
MOW                  Ministry of Works
NDIB                 National Drainage and Irrigation Board
PCU                  Project Coordinating Unit
PEU                  Project Executing Unit
SIMAP                Social Impact Amelioration Program
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader: Thakoor Persaud



GUYANA
El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective  ...............................................................2
2.  Key performance indicators ...............................................................2
B. Strategic Context
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by the project ........................................................2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ................................................................2
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices .............                                     ..................3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ................................................................4
2.  Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the project ................                                    .....................4
3.  Benefits and target population ................................................................5
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ........................                                 .....................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........8
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the project design ......................................................8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ....................................................9
5. Value added  of IDA  support in this project ............................................................... 9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ...............................................................9
2.  Financial ............................................................... 10
3.  Technical ............................................................... 10
4.  Institutional ...............................................................  10
5.  Social ............................................................... 11
6.  Environmental ............................................................... 11
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability ...............................................................  12
2. Critical risks ............................................................... 12
3. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                                       13
G. Main Credit Conditions
1.  Effectiveness conditions ............................................................... 13
2.  Other ............................................................... 13
H.  Readiness for Implementation  ............................................................... 14
I.  Compliance with  IDA  Policies ............................................................... 14



Annexes
Annex 1.              Project Design Sumniary .....................                                                                  15
Annex 2.              Project Description .....................                                                                      17
Annex 3.              Estimated Project Costs .....................                                                                  20
Annex 4.              Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .....................                                                            23
Annex 5.              Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                              25
Table A.               Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ........................................   27
Table Al.              Consultant Selection Arrangements .........................................,.,,.,                        28
Table B.               Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................................ 29
Table C.               Allocation of Credit Proceeds ........................................                                    30
Annex 6.              Implementation Plan ........................................                                                  31
Annex 7.              Performance Indicators ........................................                                               36
Annex 8.              El Nifio Southern Oscillation and its Influence on Guyana's Precipitation .......... 37
Annex 9.              Areas Benefiting from  Project Works ...................................................                      49
Annex  10.            Environmental Mitigation Measures ...................................................                         52
Annex  11.            Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................................................                      54
Annex  12.            Documents in Project File ...................................................                                 55
Annex  13.            Status of Bank Group Operations in Guyana ................................................... 56
A,nnex 14.            Country at a Glance ...................................................                                       58
Map



GUYANA
El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Date:                                                     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
September 24, 1998                                       Thakoor Persaud
Country Manager/Director:                                 Sector Director:
Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                                    Danny Leipziger
Project ID:              Sector:                          Program Objective Category:
GY - PE - 57271         Multi Sector (MY)                Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Credit             Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                       [] Loan       [X] Credit       [  Guarantee       [] Other
[Specify]
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$9.0m/SDRs 6.8 m.
Proposed terms:;
Grace period (years): Standard (10 years)
Years to maturity: Standard (40 years)
Commitment fee: Standard (a variable rate between 0% and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance set annually by the
Executive Directors of IDA).
Service charge: Standard (0.75%)
Financing plan (US$m): $10.2 million equivalent
Source                                 Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                         1.2                                  1.2
IDA                                                                2.99                6.01             9.0
Other (specify)
Total         4.19               6.01            10.2
Borrower:                   Co-operative Republic of Guyana
Coordinating Agency:        Civil Defense Commission (CDC) in the Office of the President
Implementation Agencies:    NDIB, GUYWA, GSWC, HD and PEU
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):           1999        2000       2001       2002
Annual     1.0        3.5         3.5        1.0
Cumulative     1.0        4.5         8.0       9.0
Project implementation period        3 years
Expected effectiveness date:         November 30, 1998
Expected closing date:               November 30, 2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objectives (see Annex 1):
*     Help to restore the country's agricultural capacity in drought-stricken areas through vulnerability
reduction measures in the areas of hydrologic extremes.
*     Help in providing safe and reliable potable water service to marginal urban and remote hinterland
and riverine communities which have been affected by drought.
*     Help restore flood protection in low-lying areas of the city of Georgetown.
2. Key Performance Indicators:
Project Development Indicators:
*     Increase in the production of sugar, rice and other foodstuffs to pre-drought levels over 3 years.
*     Increase in the proportion of population with access to reliable and safe potable water service in
drought-affected areas over 3 years.
-     Progressive reduction of flooding incidents in the City of Georgetown over three years.
Output Indicators:
-      ;Getting sluices and drainage systems repaired and rehabilitated, pumps acquired and installed
and operating.
-     Area/Farmers benefiting from project works.
*     Actual vs. planned time taken to implement project works.
*     Number of vulnerable households benefiting from access to potable water.
Input/Implementation Progress Indicators:
-     Time taken to contract out works.
a     Number of sluices and canals rehabilitated, outfalls cleared, pumps acquired and installed,
operational efficiency of system.
a     For potable water, number of wells dug, service level and quality, number of beneficiaries.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal[ supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: P6155-GUA
Date of latest CAS discussion: December 21, 1993
The project supports the CAS' overall goals of promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty
reduction, by seeking to restore the country's agricultural caLpacity in drought stricken areas and helping
to restore safe and reliable potable water service to drougfht-affected marginal urban, hinterland and
riverine communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The El Nifo Emereencv in Guyana
The disruption of the normal ocean-atmosphere relationship in the tropical Pacific Ocean has had
important world-wide impact, frequently negative, upon economic activities. Documented references to
this event, more commonly known as the El Nifo Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon, began
hundreds of years ago; however, it has only recently been possible for scientists to collect very detailed



3
data for comprehensive analysis of various aspects of its development, duration, impact and related
characteristics.
The ocean-atmosphere system oscillates among warm to neutral to cold phases with a normal periodicity
of roughly 3-4 years. Because of its duration, intensity and destruction, the 1997-1998 ENSO is being
compared with the 1982-1983 one which is blamed for significant economic losses estimated at US$14
billion worldwide. While most of the recent focus has been upon ENSO's warm phase (El Nifno), the cold
phase (La Nifia) also has its lagged impact upon several areas, generally subjecting them to the reverse
conditions which they experienced under El Niuo. Additional details of the ENSO's influence on
Guyana's climate can be found in Annex 8.
The Government's Response. The economy of Guyana has only recently begun to recover from several
decades of decline during which, apart from a very high debt overhang (over US$2,000 per capita), the
country's infrastructure system has been almost totally neglected. In line with IDA's, CAS', and IMF's
ESAF's agreements, the Government is focusing upon some of the most critical sectors of the economy,
e.g., health, education, administrative reform, transport, agriculture and mining. While it did receive
some infornation on the expected impact of the ENSO phenomenon, given its established priorities and
limited resource base, it did not take many immediate mitigative actions. The fact that the ENSO impact
was in the form of a slowly-developing drought also contributed to the Government's initial measured
response in its advisory to farmers to conserve water and to plant less acreage in rainfed areas and its
request for UNDP assistance in contracting an international expert to evaluate the impact of ENSO and to
advise it on the actions it needed to take.
As the drought worsened and the extent of crop losses and potable water scarcity became clearer, the
Government declared a State of Emergency on March 26, 1998 and gave the Civil Defense Committee
(CDC), an entity within the Presidential Secretariat, the responsibility for coordinating all ENSO relief
and reconstructionlrehabilitation efforts. It deployed its existing stock of irrigation pumps and fortified
retaining structures in various areas which could benefit from the remaining water supply. For residents
who needed potable water, it acquired several tanker trucks and established an emergency water
distribution system. In the interior regions, creeks and rainwater are the primary potable water source.
After the drought worsened, rainwater became scarce and the creeks became saline. The Government,
within its limited budget constraint rehabilitated several hand pumps in remote areas and dug some new
wells.
Other Donor/Lender Response. Damage assessment reports were prepared to document the nature and
extent of the problem and several donor meetings took place with UNDP assistance. The international
donor community responded with an assistance program aimed at addressing identified relief needs. The
Bank, IDB and other international entities were asked to assist in the recovery phase. Among the
response of these entities, the IDB has prepared an emergency credit by reallocating funds from an
ongoing operation to provide recovery, reconstruction and some technical assistance. It is financing
repair of one of the more-seriously damaged water conservancy system where low water level and fires
caused collapse of the conservancy walls, structural cracks and pockets and destruction of several
wooden retaining structures and bridges. The Government of Canada has also provided emergency aid
for two mobile pumps to help water management activities and the EU has provided about US$300,000
for various activities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This Credit was prepared in response to identified emergency prevention and reconstruction needs.
Because of the nature of the proposed works and activities, and in line with OP 8.50, the project is not
specifically meant to address long-term sectoral issues. Nevertheless, many of these issues are being



4
addressed through the Bank's CAS program, along with ongoing programs of other donors and lenders
such as the IDB, CDB and the EU in the drainage and irrigation and potable water sectors. Among the
main sector issues which are being addressed through such ongoing operations are the need for:
*     Clear and comprehensive sector policies and regulations governing water-resource management,
standards, use, etc.;
*     Stronger sector institutions, appropriately staffed, to assume their role in the sector;
*     Better operation and maintenance and cost recovery practices;
*     Making operational the Government's decentralized structure to allow local government entities
a greater role in sector activities; and
*     A stronger, well-equipped and fully-staffed emergency early-warning system along with clearly-
established procedures for dissemination and utilization of its findings.
C: Proiect Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Anne-x 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category     Cost Incl.    % of    IDA       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    IDA
(11  M = 7__M_      (US$M)  financing
1. Agriculture Production Capacity
Recovery & Regeneration Program
1.1 Drainage and Irrigation      Physical,          3.96     39.0       3.47      88
Management
1.2 Hydrometeorological Supply and  Physical,       0.17      2.0       0.17     100
Dissemination Program            Management
2. Potable Water Service Recovery
and Restoration Program
2.1 Recovery and Regeneration    Physical,           1.15     11.0      1.01      88
Management
2.2 Drought Mitigation Measures  Physical            3.98     39.0      3.48      87
3. Georgetown Flood Protection   Physical            0.62      6.0      0.55      89
Restoration Program
4. Project Coordination          Management          0.32      3.0      0.32     100
Total                                               10.20    100        9.00      88
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
While as an emergency operation, this project does not directly support any key policy and institutional
reform measures, it is envisaged that the works and TA which are to be provided would be operated and
maintained in a manner similar to those of other non-emergency sector operations which are being
financed by the Bank and other lenders/donors. To some degree, the streamlined procurement
procedures, operation manuals, TA for basic early-warning and monitoring hydrometeorological systems,
complement several ongoing efforts and would help in promoting better long-term operation and
management practices.



5
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefits from the proposed drainage and irrigation works would arise from having a more
reliable drainage and irrigation system in the project areas, including a more effective dissemination of
hydrometeorological information, so that the effects of both floods and droughts can be mitigated. For
the potable water system, the primary benefits would be access to a reliable emergency source of potable
water and reduced time spent in water collection. Furthermnore, the population of Georgetown would
benefit from additional fire protection as a result of the storage tank. The Georgetown Flood Protection
Restoration Program would help protect recent investments in street and canal rehabilitation. It would
also help protect businesses and housing in the affected areas from otherwise intermittent flood damage.
The main beneficiaries of the proposed project works would be the small farmers who use the drainage
and irrigation system for their rice, sugar-cane and cash crops and residents who live in marginal urban
and rural areas where regular and reliable potable water access is poor or absent. Annex 9 presents a
detailed breakdown by project component of the different areas to benefit from the proposed project. In
total about 176,000 acres will benefit from the proposed project works.  The potable water service
recovery and restoration program will benefit about 63,000 inhabitants. The Georgetown Flood
Protection Restoration Program is expected to provide flood relief to approximately 45,000 residents
living in the affected areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Framework. In order to support ongoing institutional reform initiatives and strengthen
sector institutions, it was agreed that responsibility for implementation of the proposed works would be
through the entities which normally do them, i.e., NDIB and HD of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
GUYWA and the GS&WC of the Ministry of Housing and Water (MOH&W), the PEU of the Ministry
of Works (MOW), all under the coordination of the CDC (within the Office of the President), which has
responsibility for coordinating all ENSO operations in the country. The NDIB, GUYWA and the
GS&WC are Government corporations, each being an independent legal entity.
In line with this structure, a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was established within the CDC, and a
senior civil servant was appointed coordinator of the unit. He will report to the head of the CDC, who in
turn will be advised by a Steering Committee comprising the heads of the entities implementing the
project. Given the relatively small scale of the project works and their similarity to ongoing works of the
concerned entities, it is not expected that the coordination unit will have any significant role in the
technical aspects of the operation. The Government has entered into individual subsidiary agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, with NDIB, HD, GUYWA and the GS&WC respectively, for the implementation of
the project components under their respective jurisdictions. The Project Coordinating Unit has the
responsibility for environmental review and supervision of the implementation of mitigation measures,
which are an integral part of the design and implementation plan for all works. If during project
implementation, a modification of, or departure from any project activity is proposed, the Project
Coordinating Unit will provide IDA the necessary information to assess the significance of potential
environmental impacts and required mitigation measures. The Coordinator will have close contact with
the implementing entities, and among other tasks, he will process the payment requests of each entity and
be responsible for submitting quarterly progress reports, audit reports, reimbursement requests, etc. An
environmental specialist has been identified to be hired on a part-time basis to assist the Coordinator in
supervising the environmental aspects of the project.
Each of the implementing entity, except for the PEU of the Ministry of Works and Hydrometeorological
Division, has employed the incremental staff needed for the additional project works. The NDIB has
hired one senior engineer plus two engineers and a financial specialist. The implementing entities of the
MOH&W (GUYWA and the GS&WC) will share the services of a senior technical expert whose
qualificatioris and experience have been reviewed and found acceptable to the IDA (to be paid with credit



6
funds). The expert will work with the staff assigned to the proposed works in the respective entities.
Furthermore, GUYWA has hired two additional engineers to help implement its component. Additional
equipment, vehicles and office space would also be financed under the credit to facilitate the proposed
project works. Each implementing entity would be responsible for documenting and verifying its
expenses before sending these to the Project Coordinating UJnit for payment.
Financial Management. The financial management and accounting systems of the project executing
agencies were reviewed and found satisfactory. The Drainage and Irrigation Board will continue to rely
on the Ministry of Agriculture to perform its basic accounting and financial management functions.
Nevertheless, an accountant has been hired to assist in maintaining project accounts and keep track of
expenditures. The financial systems for the Coordinating lUnit has been designed. The Government has
hired accounting/financial staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA in the NDIB and
the Coordinating Unit prior to negotiations. A Chart of Accounts has been prepared for the Coordinating
Unit to classify and group expenditures by project components, activities, disbursement categories and
sources of funds. Internal control procedures have also been prepared as part of the Coordinating Unit's
Management Information System. The Chart of Accounts and the internal control procedures for the
proposed implementing agencies were reviewed and found to be acceptable. Both are now in the process
of computerization.
Because this is an emergency operation, it is expected that the project will be fully implemented within
three years after approval by IDA. It is expected that all of the project funds would be fully committed,
with contracts signed within eighteen months of Credit Agreement Effectiveness and works completed
within three years.
The GOG has prepared an operational manual for the Coordinating Unit which includes an
organizational chart, administrative procedures, staffing, financial regulation and project procurement
and implementation plan. The operation manuals of the proposed executing agencies were reviewed and
found satisfactory.
Procurement. Details of the procurement procedures were discussed and agreed with the GOG. In order
to avoid delays in procurement of goods and works, the GOG has agreed to a streamlined system of
procurement based upon the CDC's emergency procurement procedures and IDA Standard Bidding
Document. A system of bidder prequalification (PQ) was discussed and agreed upon with representatives
of the proposed participating entities and the Central Tender Board (CTB). The PQ documents were
prepared and advertised on July 16, 1998 and a preliminary meeting was held with interested contractors
on August 10, 1998. This does not preclude the entities frorn use of their normal procurement procedures
for minor works and those which can be done quicker under the current system. Procurement audits
would be undertaken by private auditors who would be hired by the Project Coordinating Unit, following
procedures acceptable to IDA.
Reporting. There will be monthly reports (for internal use), with quarterly progress reports sent by each
implementing unit through the Project Coordinator to IDA. While there would be no specific operation
and maintenance, cost recovery or similar credit conditions, both the GOG and the IDA share the view
that some special efforts are needed to ensure that the services provided under the proposed credit would
be sustainable.  Apart from project implementation indicators and some indicators on use and
maintenance of the physical works, the GOG has agreed to inform IDA of progress being made in
ongoing sector reform projects with IDB, the EU and other donors and lenders. It will also be required to
hire consultants to prepare semestral updates on financial and technical performance which will be sent
to IDA within one month after the end of the corresponding semester. A mid-term review will be
conducted to assess progress and determine any needed action.



7
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Implementation of Project through the Social Amelioration Program  (SIMAP).  SIMAP is
implementing a social investment fund which the IDA and IDB are both financing. This unit is working
throughout the country and it was considered as a possible implementing entity for the project. However,
while on the positive side, use of SIMAP could have helped in avoiding some start-up cost and delays, on
the negative side, there were several arguments as well. First was the fact that SIMAP has a full load and
could not have implemented this project without additional staff and complementary resources. Second
was that very specialized skills are needed for most of the project works and the entities in Guyana which
traditionally do such tasks would be much better-suited to implement the project and provide the
necessary follow-up actions. Third was that SIMAP has had several difficult implementing phases in its
operation and it lacks the necessary skills to properly implement a program such as this, which would be
considered large compared to its area of focus. Because of these reasons, use of SIMAP was not pursued
further.
(b) Establishing a special project unit to implement this project. This approach had a lot of appeal since
in theory, it could avoid many of the problems of the existing sector entities and get the works completed
in a shorter time. However, upon analyzing this approach more closely, it was decided that apart from
the problem of recruiting and retaining staff with the needed skills, it would undermine the role of the
traditional sector entities and perhaps contribute to later operation and maintenance problems.
Additionally, the Government did not want to have another entity duplicating functions of its established
sector institutions and increasing its salary budget.
(c) Use of sector entities without any coordination mechanism. While this approach had the appeal of
minimizing the need for any coordinating institution and holding each entity accountable for its actions,
it also ran the risk of getting the project works bogged down in the normal difficulties facing non-
emergency operations (e.g., procurement and staffing needs). Also, centralized record keeping would
greatly facilitate the meeting of auditing requirements and would enhance internal controls.
Additionally, it was felt that there was need to use the leverage of the President's Office to help in
ensuring that the project works are completed on time and that the traditional sector entities are held
accountable for their performance.



8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                          Project                    Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
IP       DO
Bank-financed               Guyana Infrastructure Rehabilitation            U         U
Guyana Water Supply Technical Assistance &     U         U
Rehab.
SIMAP                                          S         S
Peru: El Nifno Emergency Assistance            S         S
Bolivia: El Niflo Emergency Assistance         S         S
Argentina: El Nifio Emergency Flood Project    S         S
Ecuador: El Niffo Emergency Assistance         S         S
New Guinea: El Niflo Emergency Assistance      S         S
Other development aaencies   Water Supply Project (CDB)
_______________________ Drainage and Irrigation  (IDB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), NY (Not
Yet Supervised)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
a. General Lessons Learned:
(i) Emergency recovery operations usually require that borrowers demonstrate a very high level
of organizational and implementation skills at a tirne when the system is at its most vulnerable
point, with productive assets damaged and policy.-makers, technical staff and others occupied
with several competing demands. Thus, it is important to keep projects simple and to focus on
key areas of need, doing as much up-front preparatory work as possible, and leaving longer-term
reform measures for normal sector operations.
(ii) Many countries suffer from chronic deferred maintenance problems and poor strategic
planning systems. There is a very narrow tolerance range of these systems to fluctuations
generated by good and bad years in a normal cycle. With such fragile systems, extreme or
prolonged shocks could precipitate a chain reaction in which subsequent minor disruptions are
magnified. It is therefore necessary to intervene to help stabilize the situation, using appropriate
simple technology with low operation and maintenance needs and to make the borrower aware
of the importance of placing greater priority upon overall improved operation and maintenance
and better strategic planning to avoid such recurrences.
b. Country-Specific Lessons Learned:
(i) The procurement system  is cumbersome and has been blamed for delays in the
implementation of other projects. To ensure that this does not happen in this project, the
Borrower has agreed to use a special fast-track system and it has also agreed to prequalify
potential contractors and use the latest IDA Standard Bidding Document format.
(ii) While all of the project entities have a proven record for managing the implementation of
works similar to those under the project, recruiting and retaining skilled staff has been a problem
because of supply constraints, funding probleims, and less competitive public-service



9
employment conditions. To ensure that existing staff are not over-extended, the incremental cost
(direct and indirect) of project implementation would be financed through the credit.
(iii) Because of both macro-economic and socio-cultural factors, operation and maintenance
costs have not usually been accorded high priority in the budget. While the project does not have
specific operation and maintenance credit conditions, several measures have been taken to avoid
or mitigate this problem. The works are being kept simple, the technology is not new, and the
entities have agreed to make special efforts to have active beneficiary acceptance of
responsibility for operating and maintaining the facilities. Additionally, basic operation and
maintenance manuals are included as part of the project implementation process.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Throughout the drought, the Government has taken several steps which show its commitment and interest
in overcoming the problem. In the initial stage, it sought UNDP assistance in diagnosing the main
problem areas and suggesting mitigative actions. After the drought worsened, it declared a State of
Emergency and activated the Civil Defense Commission to address both relief and mitigation/recovery
activities. It deployed its limited stock of pumps to help irrigate areas which could be helped and it tried
to renovate and dig new wells in remote communities. With UNDP and other donor/lender assistance, it
also prepared a damage assessment report and sought external assistance.
The affected entities prepared detailed emergency investment plans, for the IDA and IDB, along with
incremental resource needs, procurement and administrative arrangements, and proposals for applying
the experience gained from ongoing sector lending in the administration of the planned project works.
For the past two years, NDIB has been implementing programs to reduce the vulnerability of the drainage
system to droughts and floods. The city of Georgetown has been repairing gravity-driven drainage canals
to aid during flooding emergencies.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
With its experience in both ongoing ENSO and other emergency operations worldwide, IDA is well
prepared to provide special assistance to the Government in various aspects of its recovery program. In
the diagnostic phase, extensive site visits were made with the responsible sector entities to prepare the
necessary damage assessment reports. Assistance was also provided to help define donor/lender
coordination, establish criteria to prioritize the works and coordinate these with both ongoing and other
lender/donor assistance. For the implementation phase, IDA is assisting the entities to prepare their work
programs, define the administrative, procurement and financial arrangements, establish supervising and
monitoring systems and indicators, and to develop and reinforce the nucleus for long-term forecasting
and management of future emergencies.
E: Summary Proiect Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$1.8 million; IERR= 19% (drainage and irrigation component)
Without the project, the sluices, outfalls, canals and other drainage and irrigation structures are expected
to remain in their present condition or become worse, thus exacerbating the impact of both floods and
droughts. Similarly, for potable water, without the project works, it is expected that there would be
continued scarcity and unreliable service during droughts, both in communities with existing wells which
require rehabilitation as well as in those which do not have any wells. As part of the exercise in



10
establishing priority works, least-cost analysis was used for the potable water components while cost-
benefit analysis was used for the drainage and irrigation components. The Internal Economic Rate of
Return for the Drainage and Irrigation components is estimated at 19%, with a NPV of US$1.79m at a
discount rate of 10%.
2. Financial:
Not Applicable
Fiscal impact: In terms of direct outlays, the Government has so far spent about US$2 million in ENSO
related activities, primarily for emergency potable water distribution, dredging works and installation of
water pumps. In addition, with about 57,000 tons of rice and about 14,000 tons of sugar production lost,
the Government estimates that personal and other tax revenles dropped by about US$5.3 million.
Moreover, the shortfall in rice and sugar is putting pressure on the local banks' loan portfolio, including
one public sector bank. The total of the above mentioned direct outlays and revenue losses is about
US$7.3 million or 3% of the 1997 Central Government budget or 1% of GDP. For the proposed project,
with IDA credit terms and counterpart funding needs, the Government would incur incremental debt
service obligations of about US$1 million (equivalent to about 0.4% of 1997 Government budget) over
each of the next three years. The incremental gains form the stimulation in production and more tax
revenues attributable to the project impact is expected to mcre than offset the incremental debt service
obligations.
3. Technical:
Most of the works to be financed are similar to ongoing works under IDA, IDB and other lender/donor
programs where the technical standards used have been reviewed and found acceptable. Additionally,
during project preparation, the technical criteria were reviewed for both the drainage and irrigation and
the potable water components and these were found to be acceptable.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Responsibility for implementation of the proposed works would be through the
NDIB and HD of the MOA, GUYWA and the GS&WC of the MOH&W, and the PEU of the MOW, all
with the assistance of the CTB. Each implementing entity, except the PEU and HD, would be
strengthened with the incremental staff and other resources needed for implementing the project works.
The entities will also be responsible (via. contractors and consultants), for all phases of implementation
of their respective components, including documenting and verifying their respective expenses before
sending these to the Project Coordinating Unit for payment
b. Project management. A Project Coordinating Unit has been established within the CDC. It would be
advised by a Steering Committee comprising the heads of the entities implementing the project. The
Coordinator (with assistance from the Steering Committee and the CDC director), will be responsible for
helping to resolve any implementation problems which cannot be resolved at the individual entity level.
He will also be responsible for processing the payment requests of each entity and for submitting
quarterly progress reports, audit reports, reimbursement requests, etc. The Periodic financial cum
technical audits of the project works are being financed under the Credit. Agreement has been reached
on the terms of reference for both the financial and technical audits during project preparation. It has
also been agreed that the office of the Auditor General will supervise the financial audits of the project
during the project life.



11
5. Social:
Resettlement activities: All of the project works have been identified and many of them have
preliminary designs completed. There will be no resettlement in the project areas. If it is later found that
there will be need to resettle individuals or families, the Government would follow procedures acceptable
to IDA, as stipulated in the Operation Manual.
6. Environmental:    Environmental Category []A  [x] B  []C
Almost all of the components of this project are aimed at improving environmental conditions and
management of water resources. One of the main goals of the Drainage and Irrigation works is to reduce
water waste which, in turn, would reduce salt-water intrusion caused by excessive pumping during
drought periods. Most of the works in this component are rehabilitation of existing structures. The
additional water control structures are an integral part of the irrigation system design and will support
greater efficiency of operation of the conservancy system. None of the works proposed will entail
extension of irrigation canals or construction of new reservoirs, hence there would be no resettlement
needs in these areas. All of the proposed subprojects to be financed have been identified during project
preparation. Any potential environmental impacts related to the rehabilitation and construction of these
structures will be minimized through good construction practices. A guidance document with mitigation
measures, will be included in the bidding and contract documents for construction and supervision, and it
will be; enforced during construction. A list of measures to be included in this guidance document is
presented in Annex 10. The potable water component will help provide safe and reliable water supply to
unserved and remote areas and thus help in reducing water-related health problems. By maintaining
better control of both irrigation and potable water systems and having a water storage tank in
Georgetown (to store water when the pumps are off), it is also expected that there will be water to control
some brush and house fires. An environmental specialist will be hired to review and supervise the
implementation of mitigation measures which will form an integral part of the design and implementation
plan for all works.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The farmers and households which are expected to
benefit from the project works have had an active role in helping to set the priorities. The Local
Government entities also assisted by helping to identify and update ENSO's effect and areas of greatest
needs. For the drainage and agricultural works, farmers were asked to review and comment on the
proposals for improving the drainage and irrigation system. The importance of having sustainable
funding for proper operation and maintenance activities was also discussed and the Ministry of
Agriculture is continuing the dialogue with these groups on this topic and the need to prevent individual
farmers from illegally diverting water to their lands at the expense of other farmers. During the design
phase, meetings with beneficiaries took place to discuss the proposed design. During construction, an
independent committee of beneficiaries will be formed to help supervise the implementation of the main
project components. For the potable water component, discussions with residents, school and health
administrators also took place to find ways of avoiding illegal connections, damage to the water
distribution system to obtain water when the system is down, and similar problems. The responsibilities
of residents and users were part of these discussions and the Government is embarking on a publicity
campaign to assist in this program.
b. Other key stakeholders: Millers, exporters and bankers (as sector lenders) were also consulted on
the proposed drainage and irrigation works and the approach has their endorsement. Because of the large
multiplier effect of rice and sugar in the economy, poor harvests have had repercussions in several related
areas. For example, the National Cooperative Bank has about 37% of its loans (by value) in the
agricultural sector, and about 33% of these are in arrears. Bankers are thus very interested in getting



12
project works underway to ensure improved crop protection and reduce losses to the farmers.
F: Sustainabilitv and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The problem of deferred operation and maintenance outlays is already discussed above. Because of its
prevalent nature and no explicit credit conditionality in the project, it is possible that many of the
infrastructure works could deteriorate within a few years and expose the population to the same risks
which the project is aimed at ameliorating. While this is a very real possibility, indications are that the
Government is actively trying to address this problem in a number of ways in both existing sector
operations as well as in ongoing dialogue with the IDA and other lenders and donors. Additionally, it is
expected that with the initial efforts made to consult and get feedback from key user groups, there is a
reasonable probability that, if not all, at least the maintenance issues would be addressed.
By using the entities which have traditional responsibilities for the sector work, and strengthening them
with installation of stations for basic early-warning and monitoring systems, it is expected that these
entities would develop and improve their ability to become more actively involved in preventative and
mitigative measures and also to manage future emergency operations. Acquiring and improving such
capacity would be an important tool in helping to mount quick intervention efforts when the chances of
reducing losses are greatest.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk           Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell 'firom Outputs to Objective"
*  That the project entities cannot implement  M    Detailed design and other preparatory activities.
the project works on time because of            Hiring of incremental staff and establishing
insufficient technical capacity.                clear procedures for addressing problems.
*  Inadequate institutional capacity within  M    Additional staff to be hired to reinforce existing
implementive agencies.                          personnel.
*  That procurement delays will arise         M    Simplification of process and use of special
procedures along with detailed preparatory
work to have contracts ready for bidding.
*  That the post-election dispute among the   S    This issue is being addressed by CARICOM
political parties would not be resolved         and other interested parties.
shortly
*  That the number of local and regional      M    WVorks are small, relatively simple and dispersed
contractors will be small                       and many contractors can do them.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



13
Risk                    Risk         Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell ':from Components to Outputs"
*  That there is inadequate capacity in the  M    Additional incremental staff, including a
implementation agencies to supervise the     technical expert, have been hired to assist in
effective implementation of the project      implementing the project.
facilities.
*  That local and regional contractors do not    S    Contractors are being pre-qualified. The
have adequate capacity to carry out the      prequalification process will provide an
project works.                               advance warning of specific gaps, giving the
Govt. time to take remedial action.
*  That there is inadequate community      M    The communities were consulted before the
consultation and involvement.                project components and items were selected.
Overall Risk Rating   M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* That works being done are based upon unclear criteria and do not reach some needy areas.
*  That contract awards are based upon unclear and non-transparent criteria.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Standard, plus legal opinion(s) concerning each subsidiary agreement.
2. Other:
(a)    That the Government will comply with IDA's environment and resettlement policies if such
needs arise.
(b)    That the Government will ensure that each of the implementing entities prepare quarterly
progress report which it will send to IDA.
(c)    That the Government will hire consultants to prepare every six months procurement performance
audits for all project implementing entities. These audits will be sent to IDA within one month
after the end of the corresponding semester.
(d)    That an environmental specialist will be hired under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to
assist the Coordinator in supervising the environmental aspects of the project.
(e)    That there will be a mid-term review after 18 months of project effectiveness date.
(f)    That each entity will establish and maintain separate accounts and have these accounts audited
by auditors acceptable to IDA.
(g)    That the Government will send IDA annual audited statements within 4 months of the end of the
fiscal year.



14
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities for the Potable Water Service
Recovery and Restoration.Program are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] Not applicable.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with IDA Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Task Team Leader: Tharoor Persaud
Se   Dior: Danny eeipziger
a Country Dire      salia KPalantzopoulos



15
Annex 1
GUYANA: El Ninlo Emergency Assistance Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal.   *  Enhanced agricultural  *  The Civil Defense        (Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustained economic growth    Production.                 Commission.             *  That El Niflo - caused
and poverty reduction.   *  Safe and reliable potable   *  Ministry of Agriculture   damaged will have negative
water service in drought-   *  Ministry of Housing and  impact on economic growth.
stricken areas.             Water.                  *  That an institutional
capacity would be put in
place to manage future
emergencies.
Project Development                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objective:               *  Increase in the production  *  Coordinating Unit of the
*  Help restore the          of sugar, rice and other    Civil Defense           *  Macroeconomic stability
country's agricultural   foodstuffs to pre-drought   Commission quarterly    *  A "normal" year in terms of
capacity in drought-    levels over three years.     reports.                    rainfall and temperature
stricken areas through   *  Progressive reduction of   *  Drainage and Irrigation  patterns in the coming year.
the reduction of the     flooding incidents in the   Board quarterly reports.
vulnerability to         conservancies and the   *  Hydrometeorological
hydrologic extremes.     City of Georgetown over     Division quarterly reports.
*  Help restore safe and     three years.            *  Project Executing Unit
reliable potable water   *   Increase in the proportion  (PEU) of the Ministry of
service to drought-      of population with access   Public Works' quarterly
affected marginal       to reliable and safe         report.
urban, hinterland and    potable water service in    *  Guyana Water Authority
riverine communities.    drought-affected areas      quarterly reports.
*  Help restore flood        over three years.       *  Georgetown Sewerage
protection in the low-                               and Water Commissioners
lying areas of the City                              quarterly reports.
of Georgetown.
Outputs:                                                                         (Outputs to Objective)
*  Rehabilitated and     *  Degree to which the      *  Coordinating Unit of the   *  That the works are
reconstructed drainage   rehabilitated and           Civil Defense               undertaken to technically
and irrigation systems   reconstructed drainage      Commission.                 adequate standards.
and improved             and irrigation facilities are  *  Drainage and Irrigation  *   That there is adequate
hydrometeorological      implemented in              Board quarterly             institutional capacity within
monitoring               accordance with the         implementation reports.     the project implementation
implementation schedule   *  Hydrometeorological        agencies to implement the
and standards.              Division quarterly          project.
implementation reports.    *  That procurement delays
*  Guyana Water Authority      will be avoided.
*  Safe and reliable     *  Degree to which potable      quarterly implementation   *  Post-election dispute among
potable water services   water facilities are        reports.                    the political parties is
for drought affected     implemented in          *  Georgetown Sewerage          satisfactory resolved.
areas                    accordance with their       and Water Commissioners
original schedules and      quarterly implementation
standards.                 reports



16
*  Flood protection       *  Degree to which the flood                                *  That the local and regional
facilities for the City   protection facilities are                                   contractors have adequate
of Georgetown.            implemented in            *  Project Executing Unit        capacities to carry out the
accordance with the          (PEU) of the Ministry of      project works.
implementation schedule      Public Works' quarterly
and standards.               report
Project Components/Sub-   Implementation Indicators                                  (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2
for project description)
*   Timing for completion of  Implementation progress      *  That there is adequate
1. Agricultural Production    the pre-qualification    reports from:                     capacity in the
Capacity Recovery and         process.                                                    implementation agencies to
Regeneration Program      *  $3.96 million              *  Coordinating Unit of the      supervise the effective
*  Drainage and           *  # and timing for the           Civiil Defense               implementation of the
Irrigation Systems        completion of the             Commission.                  project facilities.
=  Mobile             construction and          *  Drainage and Irrigation    *  That the local and regional
Pumps             rehabilitation of Sluices,    Board quarterly               contractors have adequate
=> Sluice             conservancy works, and        implementation reports.       capacity to carry out the
Outfalls          for the installation of                                     project works.
=' Sluices            pumps.                                                  *  That there is adequate
>  Conservancy                                                                    community consultation and
Structures    *  $0.17 million                                                involvement.
*  Hydrometeorological   *  # of bulletins dispatched    *  Progress Reports by
Facilities and            monthly                       Hydometeorological
Dissemination      - *  # of workshops and              Division.
Program                   seminars for farmers      *  Guyana Water Authority
*  $1.15 million                 quarterly report.
2. Potable Water Service  *  # and timing for the       *  Georgetown Sewerage
Program                       completion of the             and Water Commissioners
*  Potable Water              construction of wells, and    quarterly report.
Services Recovery         storage facilities.
=> Wells                                        *  Project Executing Unit
=> Pumps                                            (PEIJ) of the Ministry of
>  Storage        *  $3.98 million                  Public Works' quarterly
*  Drought Mitigation     *  # and timing for the           report.
Measures                  installation of project
. ie                pumps.                   *  Quarterly report of the
=:> Pipes             PUMPS.                        implementing agencies
=> Fittings
3. Georgetown Flood       *  $0.62 million
Protection Restoration    *  # and timing for the
Prograin                      procurement of pipes and
*  Georgetown Flood           fittings and the laying of
Protection Facilities     project pipes
> Sluices
=> Pumps
4. Project Coordination   *  $0.32 million              *  PCU Quarterly Progress
*  Institutional          *  Timing and staffing of the     Reports
Strengthening             implementation agencies.



17
Annex 2
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Project Description
1. Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration Program
1.1 Drainage and Irrigation (US$3.96 million) The recent flood of 1996 (influenced by the last cold
cycle of ENSO) and the drought of 1997/98 (influenced by the current warm phase of ENSO) have
highlighted a series of weak points in the drainage and irrigation (D&I) system that supports agricultural
production in the coastal area of Guyana. This system allows drainage of runoff during periods of high
precipitation through a series of gravity-flow canals with outfall sluices as well as supplementary pumps
located in key points. During dry periods, the existing conservancies that store water provide supply to
the irrigation channels. The capability of the D&I system to respond to recent hydrometeorological
disasters has been limited because of weak structures resulting from prolonged periods of low levels of
maintenance. In many areas the walls of the irrigation trenches have collapsed from shrinkage and from
animal traffic in search of water from receding sources. Unless these damages are repaired, the system
would not be able to discharge waters during the rainy season or help in irrigation activities in the dry
season. As drainage and irrigation ditches dried up, they deposited silt which clogged these waterways
and immobilized sluice doors and control devices. Additionally, with the lack of flowing water, the
outfalls to the ocean also silted up.
Given the possibility of flooding in 1999, increased by the predicted cold phase of ENSO (also known as
La Nifia), and the recurrent droughts suffered by the region, the project will support the rehabilitation of
specific structures in the D&I system, the construction of water control structures in key points to reduce
water loss, and the supply of mobile pumps to serve during both in times of floods and droughts.
Additionally, the project will support the incremental staff and equipment needed to implement the works
of the National Drainage and Irrigation Board, the implementing agency of this component. Specific
information on the type and location of the works, as well as areas benefiting and costs, are provided in
annex 6 and 8 respectively of this document.
The specific components to be financed under this components will include:
*  Acquisition of mobile and gravel pumps
*  Rehabilitation of fixed pumps
*  Rehabilitation of sluices
*  Rehabilitation of conservancy structures and new small water-control structures
1.2 Strenathenina of Hydrometeorological Network (US$0.17 million) The project will support the
upgrading of facilities in selected stations nationwide of the hydrometeorological network managed by
the Hydrometeorological Division (HD) of the Ministry of Agriculture. This will entail the supply and
installation of water level recorders, rainfall loggers, SSB's, evaporimeters and automatic weather
stations. In addition, the project will support a public dissemination program aimed at improving the
weekly and monthly reports, with predictions and information analysis currently generated by the
network and promoting the use of the enhanced hydrometeorological data to be developed under the
project. The dissemination program will utilize the school environment and would include lectures,
workshops, and seminars on the usefulness of hydrometeorological forecasts. Strategies to promote the
use of hydrometeorological devices in the agricultural sector regarding alerts, cropping patterns, etc. will



18
also be developed under the dissemination program, in particular those specifically related to predicted
events of the warm and cold phases of ENSO.
2. Potable Water Service Recovery and Restoration Program
Background. Many marginal urban and hinterland communities depend upon rainwater, creeks and
rivers as their primary potable water source. With the drought, there was no rain and the creeks and rivers
either dried up or became saline from backflow of ocean water. Urban communities had to get water
from tanker trucks and rural ones sought emergency supplies from back-up hand pumps, most of which
are in disrepair or provide water of poor quality. Even with the wells of acceptable quality, many are
prone to contamination from runoff surface water because of lack of adequate protection at ground level.
The project works are aimed at addressing such deficiencies in many of the most vulnerable areas.
2.1 Recovery and Restoration Program. (US$1.15 million) Restoration of Potable Water Services in
Drought Areas: This component will finance the complementary distribution and transmission facilities
in the Regions to help avoid supplies with tanker trucks. The main replacement works in Georgetown
will improve water supplies to consumers in the low-income area of North Ruimveldt, who are at the
extreme end of the distribution systems and who do not usually receive water during drought and low
flow periods. An added benefit of this component would be the replacement of the existing
Asbestos/Cement Pipe in this area. Hydrogen Sulfide in the water in Georgetown tends to attack the
cement in these Asbestos/Cement pipes, leaving exposed Asbestos fibers.
The specific facilities to be financed under this component will include:
-  10  miles of four inch PVC pipe
*  10  miles of six inch PVC pipe
-  Four & six inch fittings
-  Eight inch PVC pipes
-  Eight inch fittings
2.2 Drought Mitigation Measures (US$3.98 million) In the drought-vulnerable and affected areas of
Regions 1,2,5,7,8 and 9, preventive potable water works such as drilling of wells and installation of water
pumps, would be undertaken near schools, markets, social ifacilities such as health centers, and religious
establishments. These wells and the installation of strategically located storage tanks would have a
significant impact in reducing the vulnerability of the water supply networks in these areas to both the
residual effects of the current drought as well as to future droughts. The wells and pumps will enable
water to be available in central locations for use by the population whose surface water supplies dried up
or became saline during the El Nifio induced drought. The storage facility in Charity in Region 2 is
located at the mid point of the Pomeroon river which divides the upper and lower Pomeroon regions. The
storage tank will facilitate the supply of riverine communities during the time it takes for the rivers to be
replenished with fresh water and for future droughts. It will also improve potable water service to the
stelling, market and community facilities in this central location of the Region. The ground storage tank
in the City of Georgetown will provide emergency storage to help the GS&WC better meet the city's
water needs during those periods of the day when water is not being pumped in the system. Apart from
providing access to a more stable water supply source, it would also help fire fighters to deal with
frequent fires in Georgetown where it is estimated that over 90% of the houses are made of wood and are
in very close proximity to each other.



19
The specific facilities to be financed under this component will include:
Wells:
* Hand-dug wells
* Four-inch shallow wells to 100 ft.
* Six-inch wells to 250 ft.
* Ten Inch Deep Wells to 900 ft.
Pumps:
*  Hand pumps and related facilities
*  Deep well submersible pumps and related facilities
*  Horizontal Split casing centrifugal pump and engine
*  Solar pump systems
*  Windmill water systems
Storage:
*  Storage tank of 10,000 gals. capacity in Region 2
*  Ground Storage tank of 500,000 gals. capacity for the City of Georgetown
3. Georgetown Flood Protection Restoration Program (US$0.62 million)
Drainage in Georgetown is accomplished by gravity flow where a system of secondary drains flow into
primary drains with sluices at their outfall. With the coastland in the Georgetown area being below sea
level, the drainage system is limited by tidal action. The result being that during high tides, the sluices
controlling the flow of the main channels are closed to prevent the intrusion of sea water. If precipitation
occurs during high tides, two pumps located at Kitty and Liliandaal are used to evacuate runoff.
However, these pumps do not have the capacity to evacuate rainfall during high precipitation events and
flooding occurs in several areas within the city. Areas where flooding commonly occurs include
Subryanville, Kitty, Bel Air Gardens, Newtown, Campbelleville, Prashad Nagar, and Lamaha Garden,
with an approximate population of 45,000.
Recently, the Ministry of Public Works through its Executing Unit has completed a series of projects
involving rehabilitation of streets and cleaning up and rehabilitation of the main and secondary canals to
improve drainage flow. However, if as expected, higher than normal rainfall occurs during the rainy
season of 1999, the useful life of these investments will be significantly reduced. In order to reduce
flooding in Georgetown and help protect these investments, the project will support the rehabilitation of
two main sluices and the provision and installation of two supplementary pumps of 30" and 36"
diameter, respectively. This incremental investment will reduce the vulnerability of the Georgetown
drainage system to flooding. Specific flood protection facilities to be financed under this component are:
*  Sluices
* Pumps
4. Project Coordination (US$0.32 million) Project Coordination will be established within the CDC.
Given the limited resources and institutional capacity of the CDC, the Project Coordinating Unit will
receive assistance to help it in its task. hicremental professional staff including a coordinator, an
accounting/financial specialist and an environmental specialist as well as support staff and equipment
will be provided to help the unit to function efficiently.



20
Annex 3a
GUYANA: El Nifno Emergency Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                         Local              Foreign           Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1.1 Drainage and Irrigation                  1.379             1.603            2.982
1.2 Hydrometeorological Stations            0.026             0.102             0.128
2.1 Recovery & Regeneration                  0.086             0.775            0.862
2.2 Drought Mitigation Measures              1.380             1.612            2.993
3.0 Georgetown Flood Protection              0.098             0.370            0.468
4.0 Project Coordination                     0.108             0.132            0.240
Total Without Contingencies                  3.077             4.594            7.671
Physical Contingencies                    0.306             0.473            0.779
Price Contingencies                       0.805             0.946            1.751
Total Contingencies                       1.111             1.419            2.530
Total Project Cost                           4.188             6.013           10.201



21
Annex 3b
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Cost Estimates (US$mil)
GUYWA  GS&WC Total-PW NDIB  HD    G'Town PCU   Tot. w/o C
Wells                       2.092   0.000    2.092  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.000     2.092
Pumps                       0.186   0.000    0.186  0.820  0.000   0.268  0.000     1.274
Storage                     0.104   0.421    0.525  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.000     0.525
Distribution, Goods         0.157   0.491    0.648  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.000     0.648
Distribution, Works         0.039   0.125    0.164  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.000     0.164
Sluice Rehabilitation, Goods  0.000   0.000    0.000  0.327  0.000   0.080  0.000   0.407
Sluice Rehabilitation, Works  0.000   0.000    0.000  0.490  0.000   0.120  0.000   0.610
Conservation Rehab.         0.000   0.000    0.000  1.201  0.000   0.000  0.000     1.201
Other Goods                 0.000   0.000    0.000  0.000  0.110   0.000  0.050     0.160
Inst. Strength.             0.140   0.100    0.240  0.144  0.000   0.000  0.189     0.573
Dissemination               0.000   0.000    0.000  0.000  0.018   0.000  0.000     0.018
Total Without Contingencies  2.718   1.137    3.854  2.982  0.128   0.468  0.239    7.671
Total with Contingencies    3.614   1.511    5.125  3.966   0.17   0.622  0.318    10.201



22
Annex 3c
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Cost Estimates
Goods             Works          Consult          Total
D&I             1.525             2.249           0.191          3.966
Hydromet          0.146             0.000           0.024           0.170
GUYWA             0.594             2.834           0.186           3.614
GS&WC             1.213             0.166           0.133           1.511
PEU             0.463             0.160           0.000           0.622
PCU             0.066             0.000           0.251           0.318
Total           4.007             5.408           0.786          10.201



23
Annex 4
GUYANA: El Nifno Emergency Assistance Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Drainage and Irrigation Component
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis        Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits               6.25            N/A            N/A             N/A
Costs                  4.46            N/A            N/A             N/A
Net Benefits:           1.79           N/A            N/A             N/A
IRR:                   19%             N/A            N/A             N/A
The cost-benefit analysis of the Drainage and Irrigation component was done by estimating the losses
avoided both in the expected floods of 1999 related to the predicted La Nifia, as well as future El Ninlo
and La Nifia events. The following are the main assumptions of the cost-benefit analysis:
1. With respect to expected damages caused by droughts related to future El Ninlo events, it was assumed
that:
e  The losses that the D&I component will help to avoid in future El Ninio events are similar to what
could have been avoided in the 97/98 event;
*  The warm phase of ENSO will occur every 4 years (an estimate based on the fact that in the last
30 years there have been 8 occurrences of El Nino);
*  Had the D&I component been operational during the 97/98 El Niflo, it is estimated that
approximately 70% of the losses caused may have been avoided;
*  The total agricultural losses related to the 97/98 El Nifno were US$29m. This includes only
agricultural losses (sugar, rice, and other crops), but not losses of cattle, poultry, relief funds,
etc., as estimates for the latter are not available.
2. With respect to expected damages caused by floods related to future La Nifia events, it was assumed
that:
*  Losses avoided in future La Nifia events are similar to what could have been avoided in the 96
event;
*  The cold phase of ENSO will occur every 6 years (in the last 30 years there have been 5
occurrences);
*  Had the D&I component been operational during the 96 La Nifia, it is estimated that
approximately 85% of the losses caused may have been avoided;
*  The total agricultural losses related to the 96 La Nifia were US$9.74m.
3. Apart from the specific losses related to the occurrences of El Niflo and La Nifia, the D&I component
will reduce the vulnerability of the D&I system to regular droughts and floods that occur twice a year.



24
It is conservatively assumed that the losses avoided in non-ENSO years are about 5% of those caused
by ENSO-related floods and droughts.
4. A ratio of 10% of net revenues/agricultural income is assumed.
5. Investment costs and operation and maintenance costs were estimated based on the preliminary
designs and specifications.
Based on the above assumptions, the NPV of the expected benefits (directly related to the losses avoided)
result in US$6.25m, while the NPV of the capital and O&MI costs is estimated at US$4.46m, for an NPV
of the net benefits of US$1 .79m.
Several sensitivity analyses were performed on the assumptions above to analyze the effect on the NPV
of net benefits and the IRR. For example, if the level of protection provided by the D&I component (or
as a surrogate variable, the damages related to ENSO) changed, the following table illustrates the results
on the cost-benefit analysis (for La Nifia). Similar results are obtained for El Niflo.
Percent of yearly losses avoided during La Nina with proposed investment.
% Losses Avoided           NPV           IRR
30                  0.78          14
50                  1.15          16
75                  1.52          18
85                  1.79          19
100                 2.06          21



25
Annex 5
GUYANA: El Nino Emergency Assistance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Borrower will follow the Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995, Revised January and August 1996 and September 1997, for the procurement of goods and works;
and the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants, January 1997, Revised September
1997. The procurement arrangements are explained below and summarized in Table A. Table B
summarizes the Prior Review by International Development Agency (IDA), and Table C presents the
allocation of credit proceeds.
General:  The bidding and shopping procedures under the project will be carried out by the respective
participating agencies [Project Executing Unit (PEU) of the MOW, Georgetown Sewage & Water
Company (GS&WC), Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA) of the MOH&W, National Drainage and
Irrigation Board NDIB), and the Hydrometeorological Division of the MOA]. The prequalification of
civil works contractors will be carried out by the Central Tender Board (CTB). The Government of
Guyana (GOG) requested that the domestic preference for goods and works be included in the Credit
Agreement. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will work with the other entities to prepare an annual
procurement plan, and will hire procurement auditors from time to time to ensure that the participating
agencies adhere to the agreed procurement procedures.
Civil and Electromechanical Works:   The International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will
be used for the procurement of: (a) larger works estimated to cost US$500,000 or more individually; and
(b) packages of smaller works, estimated to cost US$500,000 or more, procured on the basis of "slice and
package" bidding. In the latter case, the bid preparation time may be reduced to 30 days on an
exceptional basis. The packages will be prepared by each agency on the basis of the following priorities:
(a) state of preparation of the designs and bidding documents; (b) nature of the works; (c) geographical
proximity; and (d) declared emergency regions. These works will be procured following an ICB
prequalification for the whole project during annual update. Repair, rehabilitation and construction of
new hydraulic facilities - including water wells - comprising civil works and mechanical and electrical
works would be considered as electromechanical works.
The Prequalification procedures will be carried out by the CTB and will result on contractors qualified
under several ranges of capacity and specialization. The prequalified bidders will have to demonstrate
that they meet the available capacity and financial position in each bidding through a post-qualification
procedure. The four participating agencies will use the common prequalification for the procurement of
the ICB work.
The National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be carried out for small and scattered works,
for which the detailed designs and bills of quantities will not be ready at the time of preparation of the
bidding packages under ICB procedures, consisting of rehabilitation of sluices and doors, embankments
and structures. These works, estimated to cost individually less than US$500,000, will be procured using
NCB procedures acceptable to the IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.6 million. The bid
preparation time will be no less than 21 days.



26
The Quotations for Civil Works procedures will be used for smaller repairs and works, including hand-
dug wells, which are scattered, unlikely to attract open competition and costing individually less than
US$20,000, will be procured through written quotations from at least three qualified contractors, up to an
aggregate amount of US$400,000. These quotations will be obtained from prequalified contractors or
reputable, local contractors operating in the region, on the basis of written quotations submitted within 10
days and using standard forms and procedures as reflected in an operational manual acceptable to IDA.
Goods: Given the emergency nature of the project, pumps and ancillary electromechanical equipment,
and other goods, in packages costing US$75,000 or more will be procured on the basis of ICB
procedures. Similar items in packages costing individuallly less than US$75,000, up to an aggregate
amount of US$500,000, may be procured through international shopping procedures, satisfying certain
formalities, inter alia, using standard request forms, establishing a deadline for receiving offers, as called
for in the operational manual.
Spare parts, including gaskets, belts and movable parts of electromechanical equipment of existing
pumping installation, sluice gates and doors, along with the installation and commissioning of the
facilities, in packages costing less than US$10,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000 may be
procured directly from the original manufacturers or suppliers.
Consultancy Services: Consulting firms for the review of technical designs, preparation of bidding
documents, and supervision of works will be hired by the NDIB using Quality-Cost-Based-Selection
(QCBS) procedures. If the assignment is estimated to cost less than US$50,000, the short list may
comprise only of national firms.
Auditing firms and procurement auditing firms will be hired using Least-Cost-Selection (LCS)
procedures.
A consulting firm for the preparation of financial and accounting information system, costing less than
US$50,000, may be procured on a sole source basis.
Individual experts on short-term assignments, in contracts totaling less than US$75,000 in the aggregate,
will be selected on the basis of their qualifications.
Prior Review: All ICB of goods and works and all Prequalification procedures will require prior review
by IDA. The first two NCB contracts will require prior review by IDA each year. The first two contracts
for civil and electromechanical works procured by each agency each year following the procedure of
written quotations will be subject to prior review. The first two contracts for goods procured through
shopping procedures for each agency each year will require prior review by IDA. Direct contracting of
spare parts and ancillary electromechanical equipment will require prior review by IDA. All QCBS
procedures involving contracts costing US$50,000 or more will require prior review. All individual
consultants hired for contract services costing US$15,000 or more will require prior review by IDA. All
sole sourced contracts will require prior review by IDA.



27
Disbursement
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Category                                   Procurement Method'
ICB             NCB               Other             Total
Civil & Electromechanical          4.2              2.64              0.56              7.4
Works                   (4.2)            (1.6)             (0.4)2            (6.2)
Goods                    1.6               -                0.6               2.2
(1.6)                              (0.6)3            (2.2)
Consultants                  -                -                0.6              0.6
(0.6)4           (0.6)
Total                   5.8              2.64              1.76              10.2
Total IDA                 (5.8)            (1.6)              (1.6)            (9.0)
IFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
2 Three written quotations from qualified contractors works less than US$20,000, and hand-dug wells.
3International shopping up to US$500,000, and direct contracting up to US$100,000.
4 QCBS, one sole source up to US$50,000, and individuals up to US$100,000.



28
Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Sielection Arrangements
(US$ thousands)
Consulting Services                  QCBS       LCS        Sole Source     Other
Engineering and Supervision Firms      450
Audit and Procurement Audit Firms                100
Information System                                             50
Individuals                                                                  75
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consu:ltants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.



29
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ million)
Category     Procurement Method    Prior Review             Estimated Value
Civil Works   ICB > US$500,000     All                     US$4.2
NCB > US$20,000       First two per agency/year   US$0.5
Three Quotations      First two per agency/year   US$0.1
Goods        ICB > US$75,000       All                      US$1.6
Direct Contracting    All                     US$0.1
Shopping              First two per agency/year   US$0.1
Consultants   QCBS                 All                      US$0.6 (Total)
Least Cost            All
Sole Source           All
Individuals > US$15,000  All
Prequalification                    All



30
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category    Amount in US$  Amount in SDR              Financing Percentage
million         million
Civil Works               4.0                 3.02                80%
Goods                     3.5                 2.64                100% Foreign
85% Local
Consulting Services       0.5                 0.38                100%
Unallocated               1.0                 0.76
Total                     9.0                 6.8
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
SOEs will be submitted for (a) all civil works contracts less than US$500,000 each; (b)
all goods contracts less than US$ 50,000; (c) all individual consultant contracts less than US$
10,000; and (d) all consulting firm contracts less than US$ 25,000
Special account:
The Government will establish a Special Account (SA) through the Bank of Guyana in a
commercial bank. Up to US$ 1.5 million can be advanced from the Credit into the SA to
facilitate disbursement for the purpose of the project. The initial deposit would be limited to
US$ 1.0 million until the aggregate disbursed amount has reached US$ 1.5 million. The SA will
be replenished by submitting withdrawal applications to IDA on a monthly basis.
Retroactive Financing:
Up to about US$1 million would be available for retroactive financing for urgent works
and goods that have been procured in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. This
portion of the credit would be used to reimburse the Government for eligible expenditures made
after the declaration of the emergency (March 26, 1998), in accordance with World Bank
operational policies.



31
Annex 6
GUYANA: El Nifno Emergency Assistance Project
Implementation Plan
Project  ITEM                                       Q1    Q2    Q4    Q6    Q8   Q10   Q12
Component
Drainage and Irrigation
1.1    Seven 40-cusec mobile pumps                   B      Con
1.1    No. R.C structure at Red Lock                 BN    D      B             Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of Golden Fleece Sluice.       B     Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of Uno Creek Spill Weir.       BN    D      B      Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of Dawa Pump.                  B      Con                       I
1.1    Rehabilitation of the Conservancy of          BN           D      B             Con
Annandale to Johanna Cecilia, embankment
& structures.
1.1    Replacing gates on structures at Main Canal -  B           Con
50 gates
1.1    1 No. 12" gravel pump                         B      Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of Sluice at Endeavour,        BN    D             Con
_Leguan Island
1.1    Rehabilitation of seven Sea Sluices           BN           D             Con
1.1    Rehabilitation works and stabilizing of       BN           D      B      Con
pumping station outlet at Plaisance
1.1   Improved drainage through installation of a    BN           D             Con
new structure through the dam of Nabacilis
backlands
1.1   [Rehabilitation of River Sluice at Supply  !    BN    D            Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of Mora Point Pump station  |     D         Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of Sluices at Governor Light.  BN    D             Con
1.1    2 No. 12" gravel pumps                        B      Con
1.1    Rehabilitation of six sluices                 B            Con
1.1    Replacing intake structures on Seaford Canal  BN    D      B             Con
North and South in the # 52/74 area.
Hydrometeorological Network Strengthening
1.2    Hydrometeorological equipment                 B            Con
1.2    Dissemination Program                         D     Con
Recovery and Restoration Program
2.1    Six Inch Pipes 1O mi                          SP    B
2.1    Four Inch Pipes 10 mi                         SP    B
2.1    Fittings                                      SP    B
D - design; B - bid; BN - bid components; Con - contract; Comp - completion; SP - specifications



32
Annex 6
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Implementation Plan
Project  Item                       Q1    Q2         Q4        Q6       Q8        Q1O       Q12
Comp                                                  _
Drought Mitigation
Measures                                    _                          .
2.2   Ten - inch Wells                           . _
2.2   De Hoop                           D         B        Con       Con       Comp    _
2.2   Champayne                         D         B        Con       Con       Comp
2.2   Little Baibo                      D         B         Con      Con       Comp
2.2   No. 10 Village                    D         B        Con       Con       Comp
2.2   Six-Inch Wells
2.2   St. John                                    D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Liberty                                     D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Friendship                 r                D__D     B         Con       Comp
2.2   Lilydale                                    D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Marlborough                                 D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Martindale                                  D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Mora. Waka oa                               D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Yarashirima                                 D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   St. Lucian's Wakapoa                        D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Jacklow                  DI_I_ID                     B         Con       Comp
2.2   Siriki                                      D_         B       Con       Comp
2.2   Abram's Creek              __ T             D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Kabakaburi                                  D_           B     Con       Comp
2.2   St. Monica                               _D          B         Con       Comp
2.2   Karawab                                     D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Hackney                                     D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Hogg Island                                 D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Limer Sands                                 D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Capoey Lake                                 D        B         Con       Comp
2.2   Four-Inch Wells                              ___
2.2   Arau                              D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Chinawying                        D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Issano                            D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Jawall                            D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Karran Creek                      D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Kurukutu                          D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Kaikon                            D         B        Con       Comp
2.2   Kako                              D         B        ICon      Comp
2.2   Kamorang                          D         B        Con       Comp    I
D - design; B - bid; BN - bid components; Con - contract; Comp - completion; SP - specifications



33
Annex 6
GUYANA: El Ninlo Emergency Assistance Project
Implementation Plan
Project Item                        Q1    Q2         Q4        Q6        Q8        Q10       Q12
Comp
2.2   72 Miles Potaro                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Puruima                            D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Philipai                          ID         B         Con       Comp    I
2.2    Waamadong                         D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Riverview                         D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Gosen                             D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kartobo                           D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Bartaria                           D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Koaw Island                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Makouria                          D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Lanaballi                          D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Agatash                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Dawa                                        D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Akwini                                      D         B         Con       Comp
*    I                    I ~~~~~~~~~~~I                                 I
2.2    Kato                                        D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kurukubaru                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Paramakatoi                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Taruka                                                B         Con       Comp
2.2    Monkey Mountain                             D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Tuseneng                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kanapang                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Itabac                                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Oriduik                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kamana                                      D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kopinang                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Maikwak                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Waipa                                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kaibarupai                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Chenapau                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Karisparu                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Hand Dug Wells
2.2    Aishalon                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Karaudanawa                                 D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Achiwib                           I         D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Awaranawa                                    D         B         Con       Comp
D - design; B - bid; BN - bid components; Con - contract; Comp - completion; SP - specifications



34
Annex 6
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Implementation Plani
Project Item                       Q1    Q2         Q4        Q6        Q8        Q10       Q12
Co m p
2.2   Maruranau                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Shea                                        D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Rupunau                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Sawarinau                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Katoonarib                                 D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Sand Creek                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Shullinab                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Maruranau                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Shea                                        D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Rupunau                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Sawarinau                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Katoonarib                                  D         B_Con               Comp
2.2   Sand Creek                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Shullinab                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Potarinau                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Pariwarunau                                 D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Aranaputa                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Haiwa                                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kai Kum Bay                                D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Annai                                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Nappi                                      D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Parishara                          ____|D             B         Con       Comp
2.2    Yupukari                     ==      _=_ _D          B         Con       Comp
2.2   Toka                                        D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Quatata                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Hand Dug & Four Inch Wells
2.2   Culvert City                                D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Hokwa                                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Moco Moco                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kumo                                      . D        B         Con       Comp
2.2    Quarie                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Meriwau                                     D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Small Sand Creek                            D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Baitoon                                    =D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Wowetta                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   St. Agnatius                                D         B         Con       comp
2.2    Karasabi                                   D         B         Con       Comp
D - design; B - bid; BN - bid components; Con - contract; Comp - completion; SP - specifications



35
Annex 6
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Implementation Plan
Project  Item                       Q1    Q2          Q4        Q6       Q8        Q10       Q12
Comp
2.2    Wichabai                                   D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Tiger Pond                                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Pai Pang                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Taushida                                    D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Yurong-Peru                                D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Solar Systems
2.2   Aishalton                         D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Karasabi                          D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Windmill Systems
2.2    Achiwib                          D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Tiger Pond                        D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Kumo                             D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   St Agnatius                       D         B         Con       Comp
2.2    Quarie                           D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Small Sand Creek                  D         B         Con       Comp
2.2   Hand Pumps                         SP       B
2.2   Submersible Pumps                               _      SP       B
2.2   Centrifugal Pumps                                     SP        B
2.2   Solar Pumps                                           SP        B        .
2.2    Generator Set                                        SP        B
2.2   Storage Tanks
2.2   Charity                            SP       B         Con       Comp
2.2   North Rumvelt                      SP       B         Con       Comp           =-
Georgetown Flood Protection
Restoration Program
3    Pumping stations at Kitty and      BN       D         Con
Liliendaal
3    Sluice structures at Kingston      BN       D         Con
4    Project Coordination         Comp



36
Annex 7
GUYANA: El Nifno Emergency Assistance Project
Performance Indicators
Project Component                       1999       2000      2001
I    Agricultural Prod. Cap. Recovery Regeneration. Program
1.1  Drainage and Irrigation
Number of sluices rehabilitated                         11         6
Number of structures and rehabilitation works in                   2         3
conservancies
Number of pumps (mobile, gravel, and stationary)        10         3
rehabilitated and operational
1.2     Strengthening of Hydrometeorological Network
Stations Upgraded                                       6          6
Automatic Weather Stations Installed                    3          6
Dissemination Program - Seminars/Workshops              4          4
2    Potable Water Service Recovery Program
2.1     Recovery and Restoration Program
Length of four inch pipes laid (miles)                  3          7
Length of six inch pipes laid (miles)                   3          7
2.2     Drought Mitigation Measures
Hand dug wells constructed                              15         15        20
Four inch shallow wells constructed                     15         35
Six-inch wells constructed                              14         14
Ten-inch wells constructed                                         4
Hand pumps installed                                    45         55
Solar Systems constructed                                          1         1
Wind mill Systems constructed                                      3         3
Storage Tank                                            1          1
3.   Georgetown Flood Protection Restoration Program
Sluices Rehabilitated                                   2
Pumps Installed                                         2



37
Annex 8
GUYANA: El Nifno Emergency Assistance Project
El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) and its Influence on Guyana's Precipitation
1. The ENSO Phenomenon
For hundreds of years (the first available record dates 1567), fishermen along the coasts of Peru
and Ecuador have noticed, at periodic intervals, the appearance of warm waters in the eastern Pacific
Ocean and a related decrease in fish availability. As the phenomenon typically becomes apparent around
Christmas, the phenomenon received the name "El Nino" (Christ Child or the Little Boy).
During the 1920s, the head of the Indian Meteorological Service recognized associations between
rainfall patterns in South America, change in ocean temperatures, and atmospheric pressure changes
measured at stations in Tahiti and Darwin (Australia). A pressure rise in the east is typically
accompanied by a decrease in the west, and vice-versa. This phenomenon was named the Southern
Oscillation.
In the late 1960s, the relation between the warm waters of El Ninio and the pressure variance of
the Southern Oscillation was recognized, leading to the full naming of the phenomenon as El Nino
Southern Oscillation (ENSO).
The ENSO phenomenon is a disruption of the ocean-atmosphere system in the tropical Pacific
Ocean that has important consequences for weather around the globe. ENSO is the dominant source of
variability in the climate system on inter-annual to decade time scales. ENSO has a warm phase (El
Nino) and a cold phase (La Ninia - the Little Girl). Global climate anomalies associated with La Ninia
tend to be opposite of El Nifno. For example, El Nifio events results in abnormally dry conditions over
northeast Brazil, with flooding during La Nifia events. The ocean-atmosphere system oscillates between
warm to neutral to cold phases with a natural periodicity of roughly 3-4 years.
2. Monitoring the ENSO Phenomenon
Every El Nifo and La Nifia event is somewhat different in magnitude, duration, and evolution.
Magnitude can be determined with different indicators, such as the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI),
mentioned above. Another indicator is the Sea Surface Temperature Anomaly (SST) that measures the
difference between the actual temperature and the seasonal average for different regions of the Eastern
Equatorial Pacific Ocean. Two regions commonly used for measuring the SST are the Ninio-3 that
extends from 150W to 90W and 5N to 5S, and the Nifio-3.4 that corresponds to 170W to 120W. Figure 1
shows the SST anomalies for the Nifio-3.4 region between 1950 and 1998. The anomalies in Figure 1 are
the difference between the measured temperature values and the average seasonal value for the 1950-
1993 reference period. Positive values in Figure 1 correspond to warm phases of the ENSO phenomenon
while negative values correspond to cold phases. El Niflo years are those with significant and continued
positive SST anomalies. La Nifia years correspond to the opposite situation. Table A.7.1 presents the El
Nifno and La Ninia events of this century. Warm and cold episodes generally last into the winter and
spring of the following year (i.e., 1982 denotes the 1982/1983 warm episode).



38
Table A8.1
El Nifio and La Nifia Events
El Niflo Years                  La Nifia Years
(warm phase ENSO)               (cold phase ENSO)
1902 1905 1911 1914 1918 1923     1904 1908 1910 1916 1924 1928
1925 1930 1932 1939 1941 1951    1938 1950 1955 1964 1970 1973
1953 1957 1965 1969 1972 1976     1975 1988 1995
1982 1986 1991 1994 1997
The Climate Diagnostics Center of NOAA uses a multivariate index to monitor ENSO, using a
combination of sea-level pressure, surface wind, sea surface temperature, surface air temperature, and
total cloudiness fraction of the sky over the tropical Pacific Ocean, in an attempt to integrate multiple
variables associated with the phenomenon. Figure 2 shows the standardized departure of the multivariate
ENSO index (MEI) for the period 1950-1998. Again, positive values of the MEI represent the warm
ENSO phase. As can be observed in Figures 1 and 2, El Nifio events usually occur approximately every
two to seven years, and are generally followed by La Ninla events, although there is irregularity in the
oscillation. For example, the period 1990-95 has been unusually warm.
3. The 1997/1998 El Nifio Event
By some accounts the 1997/98 El Nifio event is the strongest since extensive sea surface
temperature observations of the tropical Pacific began in the 50's. Figure 3 presents the value of the MEI
for the six strongest El Nifno events, along with the evolution of the current El Niflo. As can be observed
in the figure, each El Niflo has a different evolution; some (like 57/58, 65/66, and 72/73) had rapid rising
and standardized peaks before the end of the first year, while others (82/83, 86/87 and 91/92) took longer
to mature and had their peaks in the spring of the second year. The 97/98 event has shown two peaks, the
first one in July/August 97 and the second in February/M[arch 98, both of which have been the largest
recorded with the only exception being the 82/83 event.
4. Influence of El Nino/La Nifia Events on Precipitation in Guyana
The ENSO phenomenon is the most important source of global climate anomalies in the inter-
annual to decade range, especially in the tropics. However, it is important to note that ENSO is only one
among many factors that influence climate in a particular region. The variability in the ENSO cycle, as
illustrated in Figure 3, and the superposition of its influence on the annual cycle of dry and rainy seasons
in Guyana, result in different levels of effects. Nevertheless, some trends have been clearly and
consistently identified in the historical records between the warm and cold phases of ENSO and
anomalies in precipitation and temperature in Guyana. Figures 4 and 5 present at a global scale the
effects of warm and cold ENSO events.
Rainfall in Guyana is bi-modal, the wet seasons occur from mid-April to mid-August and mid-
November to mid-January. Research using 66 years oif rainfall data in Georgetown indicates that
precipitation is below average during El Nino years, while the opposite occurs during La Nifia years.
The effective period of influence of El Nifno has been found to be Sep(0)-Mar(+) (i.e., from September of
El Nifno year to March of the following year), while for La Niina it is Nov(0)-Mar(+). Table A.8.2
presents the median values of precipitation for the effective periods of the warm and cold phases of
ENSO and compares them with the median value for non-ENSO years].



39
Table A8.2
ENSO and Non-ENSO Medians for 3-Month Composites
Of Georgetown Rainfall (mm)
ENSO Phase        Effective Period    Median Value of Rainfall   Median Value of Rainfall
ENSO Years           non-ENSO Years
Warm (El Niflo)     Sep(0)-Mar(+)                776.4                  1039.7
Cold (La Nifla)    Nov(0)-Mar(+)               1090.3                    849.7
An analysis of precipitation data in Georgetown confirms the trend shown in Figures 4 and 5.
Figure 6 presents the standardized anomaly of annual precipitation (percentage difference between
observed and average) for El Nifio and La Nina years listed in Table A.8. 1.
The most recent hydrologic disasters in Guyana appear to have been influenced by the ENSO
phenomenon. The floods in 1996 that caused significant damage in agricultural production, as described
in more detail in the main text of this document, may have been influenced by the 95/96 La Ninla event.
The 97/98 drought in Guyana has been clearly influenced by the current El Nifio. Figure 7 presents the
average rainfall and the current levels of precipitation for the period July 97-March 98 for the five main
agricultural regions of the country.
Based on the ENSO forecasts, the high possibility of a drought for the 97/98 period was raised by
the Hydrometeorological Service of the Ministry of Agriculture in its report of August 1997 and by the
National Drainage and Irrigation Board in November 1997. A Regional Climate Outlook Forum for the
Northern South America region took place in Fortaleza in January 20, 1998. The consensus climate
guidance indicated a significant (45%) probability of below-normal rainfall in the February/May dry
season in Guyana, as shown in Figure 8. The next section presents the current forecasts for the evolution
of the ENSO phenomenon in the coming months.
5. Current Predictions of ENSO Evolution for 1998/1999
There are various research groups and modules that have developed statistical and dynamic
forecast models for the study of the ENSO phenomenon and its current development. These forecasts are
frequently updated and the following summary presents the estimates as of April 1998.
The forecast of the Climate Prediction Center of the U.S. National Weather Service calls for
warm ENSO conditions through May-June 1998 and then a gradual weakening with the approach of
summer. Thereafter there is some disagreement among the models used by the Center (statistical models
such as CA and CCA and coupled-atmosphere models such as NCEP). Figure 9 illustrates the difference.
The consolidated forecast of the Center calls for a slow decrease to a zero or below zero anomaly by late
1998. The forecast is cautious in the prediction of La Nifia event and indicates that the expected
accuracy of the SST forecast will greatly improve as the so-called "spring barrier" in predictability is
passed.
The forecast developed by researchers at the Center for Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Studies
indicates a return to near-normal conditions in the late spring-early summer of 1998. During the fall of
1998 temperatures continue to cool and the cold anomaly peak will be seen during the winter of 98/99
with strong La Nifia conditions persisting through the winter of 1999, as shown in Figure 11.
The International Research Institute forecast for SST anomaly indicates a decrease of warm
ENSO conditions over the summer evolving towards relatively strong cold conditions by the beginning of



40
1999, as shown in Figure 12. The figure presents a blended forecast of SST anomalies for the tropical
Pacific generated by two models (the NCEP coupled GCM and the Cripps Hybrid Coupled Model).
Although the results shown above are part of research efforts aimed at understanding and
modeling the ENSO phenomenon, the forecasts show a tendency towards a potentially strong cold ENSO
condition in 1999. Coupled and statistical models are at the moment unanimous in suggesting moderately
to substantially below normal SSTs in the eastern Pacific by fall 1998, with many suggesting further
cooling during subsequent months, i.e., near-La Nifia to full-La Nifia conditions. The evolution of the
warm phase needs to be followed closely over the coming months in order to assess the likelihood of a
strong cold phase of ENSO with its related effects on the precipitation of Guyana.



t5G1 gb51 L81 OW6 SeBI tEI 65~1 ZT5p l55I 0,18S
.. .......                       .   .................   . ..   ......   . .                                .. 
.             ;              ;......   .;   ...       ..    .. .. . ;..    .                                    ;...........         ;......                   [
.........                                     v                                  O
~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. . . . ......   .. .. .                                                                           -       _--- ....... --'   -
~~~~~~~..... . _.. st...                                                                                                          ... ...., 
...........                                                         ... ...........r
.         ..            ..                                     .  .            ..                                   q..      .    .      .
686            o 9St1  aS61    9S,6L   SS1   jr651   FA6    Z8B1    186l 
..       .   ..     ...                                          ..   .    .    ..    .   .    . .    .   .      ...      ..
.,j .... ... . ... ._. .
ApoU                                                      ............. U p ,    ,                    ,fl_,
..        ......                                         ........ .......I,.,.,                                      .... .. .
.............................................                                                ....... . ...... ..................   ....... 
6961   95 I1  LL6 1   996i   SL51    L,961    Mt1    ZM1   1tool                                                                                    -C
. . ......                     _      '.     ... ..   ..,,.   .._E,..... ,. .. . ' ,.                                   , .........
Wf____^ ~~................_._..                                                        .... .. .. .   ... ..
.... ' ,............                                                                           .......... .......... ....
..............   .. ..                       .. . .                                           .. ..           .. . . '  ,''-''.......   .....  '-''  ''v'     
~~~~~~. . . . .                                                      .. ..........................                                        ,         Z-^_ 
. .. ...               .... ... . ... . ..                                              ....                                                      ......
uoi.l  .t01!o u                            .   .xoj (iss) .                                .u.uouV  xnj.vzadwajL 2'pS 'aS
.... .
, s ; - - - - -* - -- * -- - *1-



42
Figure 2
Multivariate ENSO Index (MEI)
Standardized Departure 1950-1998
Source: Climate Diagnostics Center, NOAA-CIRES
, MULTIVARIATE  ENSO   INDEX    -..............................
2- .. .  .  .............. .  _ ._. _ . ... .  .......   ..   ...........   _. _  ..............  ........
n -1 r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. s---.. ......  .....
o 1 
0   -2-          _-  ~~~~N^-UIRES Cl-m b Uiaqnoo^'ca Cntw.XiCDCi; Uni 
19So     19:5S    i960    1965    1970        iq)'5    14so10     8 lE   1990    19~9S
Figure 3
M{ultivariate ENSO 3:ndex (MEI)
Strongest Historic El Ninio Events
Source: Climate Diagnostics C'enter, NOAA-CIRES
=72+    .                
@     8~~~6+ *-     -          .............. 
Nv 2Q9 i ta722
I-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1
0
i4OA&4>   C          Mutivariate ENSO .ine  (. C    )  
32L                      -a ^   - L---a'--
m       ~.-.-.  ..                           -.                 3s
2      -ti**Sky98 -4                   i--    2 
m ~ ~ ~~~ __                          4-tes---r(D  v=iyrrO      -     0 a3-
C                                 C,   l-   c-  4
co                   Q                                  4  ,7w     
(U  3  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-             ~        V



.. .. .. .          ..   .  .  .   .  .    ..    ..   ..   .                               .ur .  .          .  .  .   .  .  .   .
~~~~~~.                        .  .  . .   ...                                                                   ..   ..   ..   .  .                                   ..  ..     . s!-,t---- -  -
~~~~~~   .                     .  . ...                                            . . .   .  .   .                                                  .... . ...     ..      ^.a.    4
,-s---                            A-------_jj_-V;-Gs%    *Vvo*-
~~~~~~~.............. t ... .........  jz.. ;.. ........                                                                                             ..... ........=. -b--mz  ----Il
~~~~~~~~~.........  ;s......................                                                                           .     *....  ..                      ... 
............                                         .................                                               ---- -- -- --;--,       't-------j- - - **,
'__--  ;E ni_--       @      --_-  ..........................................                 ....              *      s      e                  _|           5 ..........
- *. t .. , ..~~~~~~~~~............... ........;,
......           .            .........  ......                   .....  ..........    ......... W  .....................
..... .  ... . .....,.,.                                                                                                                                                      .......     ,,
.................... ....  ......                                                                    .... ,
m .o ..z .it   !                 ~     . ...         .         ..                                                                                   .. .  . .... .
~~~~~~~~...,Yf.;2....... ....... 2. .P,
- -r<--' ) - S.                         .  .........................                                  ...............,.,,,-..! },  l
z >w _k___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............  ............ ..... 
vvoK ,aiua3  uot.13paia asmullommJoS
os.Naio} stL,a txeujuMo spaj a leqolf)
Vea.nSgi.



44
Figure 5
Global Effects of Cold Phase of ENSO
Source: Climate Prediction Center, NOAA
COLD EPISODE RELATIONSHIPS DECEIBER - FEBRUARY
...                ...      . ......
4.i.            ..    .       -...................
.. .                                                                           .........
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .,......    ..._}                                                 gU...        -;gwJ--
a =....          ,        , ....... .......,                      ......... 4............
..   . .. .  . .. ...   c      .. . . . . . . . .                        ...:._.....    .....   .               .......
1 ~~~~~~~. ...............   .....................                  . . . .. . .  .. . ... . .
COLD EPISODE RELATIONSHIPS  JUNE -AUGUST
_........................                                                          .........!i
TS;4 s~~~~~~~~~~ ... .. .. . ............                                       .. . . .    ..    ..    ..........., -'-;* ;-*-'''
4O'... C... : . ..:. .   . ...+
31 J9W                                                  .... ;....... |i.i.b  -r-- *. ....................        ...........  
.......                                    ..........           .. .......                             ........-s---
ax \;g < ' ^ % l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......                                                 ...
<           ,                                        w.n                  s          }.,^~~~~~~~
s wos| *vZ| oos.........                                    *o..... <
w-~ ~ ~ ~~           ~........                                     ....................   ...



Figure 6
Standardized Anomaly of Annual Precipitation
El Niio and La Niiin Years
Source: Kemp Simon, Hydrometeorological Department,
Ministry of Agriculture, Guyana
160
om   140
t 0 120   .           l              * El Nino years
too                      ~~~~~~(Warm Phase)
Z;                         s~~~~~~~~ La Nina Years
g 1  s                                  Cold Phase)
a.    60
40 _           ,   ,   .   .
1935 1945 1955 1965 1975 1985 1995
Year
Figure 7
Normal (average) and Actual Montlily Precipitation
June 1997-February 1998; Regions 2, 4 and 6, Guyana
Source: Ilydrometeorological Departineitt, Giiyai a
250               -                    ".S4 -- 
0    ..    _   ..  ZEO . ~~~~~1 20                        F,....................        
x                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~S ff 
... Ad3  I 1 0
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
e0                                         --------    t t'|          j ] % 2              } i | |  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



46
Figure 8
Consensus Climate Guidance
Northern South America Regional Climate Outlook Forum
Fortaleza, Brazil, January 1998
Source: International Research Institute for Climate Prediction
February-May  1998
1 o'N -
37, -q
40'         1'   v 
_;2_  _ X 3t~1ueanm Iuinad l.
aa~~~~~~~~S~a
90o W        I        L00
Figure 9
SST Consolidation Forecast (Apr/98)
Standardized Anomaly for Niiio-3.4 Region
Source: Climate Prediction Center, NOAA
7i 3
2
0 -3 - ----------------------------------------------------- --1------
1998   Target Month                            1999
C. .
<                                                       ------------------C
M                                   .4                      . 



47
Figure 10
Coupled Ocean-Model Forecast (May/98)
SST Anomaly for Nifio-3 Region
Source: Bureau of Meteorology Research Centre, Melbourne, Australia
2
E _ 0 0. -) 0 0 0 0 0
0   0-' 0   0)  0)  0   0   0 0.5
% -~~~*oi->ntiu-.ear
SS *Foreca ---st; -or Niii-3t5 RegionMG 
Source: Cete fo Oca-Ln  Atoshr Stuie
~~~~~~~~~~~~.'
a N              0   co  co   0   0   0   (A
Solid curve (Dec/97 forecast), dashed curve (Jan/98 forecast), dotted curve (FebW98 forecast)
usC? im                                                            l)C)  m 
Ver..c_ at                        T.   T
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e    >'                           co       CD      N.:g   -.......................................
i  i'6-i,i''.,'?i C .. :.'.)i-i:ii   :,,.-   :  .,,., ' '::,'''  ''   :  .iiii:i'i i''ii
_  i .i-ii...........    i,i.i.  i,....   .......  ....:'''.-  ' i',':
?.z.??'xS"':'': ::ii.:....5!..:ii:.:: .:i:.::'::::':....                        . .. .::'.:.:'::''.::::::   ...:  - .:: ..::i,...:i-ii:--i
tffi  i?;ii   :\,i? bi    5 i ii'i:.  i:i    iii'  :::::   .    :   :   ~ ..::  .i.':  . :    :  .................. i- .,,   :: ...:i    .: ...... 
Xi??iK xi- i'. l:.;: ii.i/ ::i: iii.: ::::::-.::-. ::: .  : .-: . .- ::..:. .:   ..:.::.--::..::: ::.::.:.:i
?:jx, x; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   i::y.:.i.:e.:iiii.::. t.:   -   :....  .....    ...    ..     .. .....................  ..  .-
,?5?'i:::XwY !i>.NxPi::Srii;iii:~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .i . i:: . . . . . ii: . .' .: -i .iiiii:: .: . ::: :-: .:: i. ::i .i . .i: i:ii i.-
?f?idiX5,?iii?i.i?  :?iiigi;:si.i,iii:ii riii::  :;::i   ii:i:.iiiLiiiiiii:.i::ii  ;i:iiiii:::?.iii:::iiiiji!?zi:iiai:i
ON  FM         ::iii? an: w?it=;;:5 :i.:i::      :.: ML : : :: :.: -                 WM:::iiii:i :ii:: i: : .::ii::.:,:ii::i:ii::i-
?S>iiS:is ;g  i.ii?ii   Ver: i riii: tlon; t: i: i rni:i.i  .: S:.:iii  iii:ii ii:i e3ijiii



48
Figure 12
SST Forecast Tropical Pacific (Mar/98)
Source: International Research Institute for Climate Prediction
JJA   1998  (6  month   lead)
Mcde 2 Marc:h 1998
TWO  BLEND  SST  Anomaly  (C)            J JJA1998
E w
E a             --gtu,t
4DE  SOE SE  1ME 120E 140E 160C: 180 16w 14*0 12" 100W
SON 1998 (9 month  lead)
Mcde  2 Marc-h  1998
TWO  BLEND  SST  Anomaly  (C)    SCN19S98
E   r-
41E  SOE  StE 1I E 121E 14CE 160E  180 IBOWV 14av 120w 100W
DjF 1992 (12 month  lecd)
Mcde  2 Mcrch  1998
TWO  BLEND  SST  Anomaly  (C)    DJF1999
40E  6OE  ME  1C6E 12E 140E 1SGE: 18O 16aw 144V 120w IOOw



49
Annex 9
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Areas Benefiting From Project Works
Component 1 Pumps (mobile, gravel, and rehabilitation)
Mobile Pumps
Region                     Use in Drought Conditions                       Expected Location in
Flooding Conditions
Expected Location                      Use
2     Mc Nabb, Lima        To provide supplemental water from the main  Three-Friends, Westbury
Affiance/Columbia   canal to the distributaries for use by rice and cash
crop farmers
3     Warima               To provide supplemental water from the Bonasika  Windsor Forest
River to the conservancy
4     Lama                 To provide supplemental water from Lama Creek   Good Hope
at low tide to the East Demerara Water
Conservancy
5     Fort Wellington      To provide supplemental water from irrigation  Onverwagt
canal to FD 13 irrigation canal
6     Black Bush, Torani   To supplement the irrigation supply in the Black    Sea-Well,
Head                 Bush area, and to supplement flow in Canjie  Borlan/Eversham
Creek from the Berbice River at low tides
Rehabilitation
Project Component          Area Benefited              Acreage            Type of Agricultural
Activity
Region 2
Dawapump                Pomeroon                 44,000                   Rice and ground
provision
Region 4
Plaisance pumping       Ogle to Plaisance        500                      Sugar cane and
station                                                                   residential
Region 5
Mora Point pump station  Areas along the        |300                      Rice and cash crops
Mahaicony river



50
Component 1 (Sluice rehabilitation)
Project Component        Area Benefited,            Acreage           Type of Agricultural
I                      I                       I       Activity
Region 2
Golden Fleece Sluice   Johanna Cecilia to      8,000                 | Rice
Perseverence          l
Region 3
Endeavour sluice at    Amsterdam to Blenheim   500                    Rice and cash crops
Leguan Island 
Region 4
Rehabilitation of seven    Uryheid to Golden   3,500 (similar area for    Sugar cane and
sea sluices             Grove                  each sluice)            residential areas
Supply sluice         | Brickery to Support    250                    Citrus
Region 5
Governor Light sluice    Areas along the       300                    Rice and cash crops
Mahaicony river                               l
Region 6
CWC#1 sluice           Crabwood Creek          2,500                  Rice and ground
provision
#43, Eversham, and     Black Bush Polder       27,000                 Rice and cash crops
Adventure sluices
Borlan sluice          Fyrish to Borlan        1,200                   Sugar cane and ground
provisions
Lonsdale sluice        Rotterdam to Brothers    950                   Rice and cash crops
Component 1 (Conservancy water control structures rehabilitation and deficiency reduction'
Project Component       Area Benefited (1)    A     Acreage        1 Type of Agricultural
{          I                                   l_______________________    j    _______________________A ctiv ity
Region 2
Red Lock control       From Walton Hall to     27,000                 Rice
structure              Taymont Manor (areas
served by Manikuru
Canal)
Uno Creek spill weir   Tapakuna scheme         6,000                  Rice
Rehabilitation of      Annandale to Johanna    8,000                  Rice
conservancy            Cecilia
Gates on structures at    Walton Hall to Taymont  27,000              Rice
main canal             Manor
Region 4
Nabacilis structure    Nabacilis               300                     Cash crops
Region 6
Intake structures on   #52 to #74            l18,500                  Rice
Seaford Canal N&S
(1) Some of the benefited areas (especially in regions 2 and 6 may overlap between the various subcomponents)
Project Component 1               Total Acreage
Region 2                          120,000
Region 3                          500
Region 4                          4,550
Region 5                          600
Region 6                          50,150                            175,800



51
Component 1- Gravel pumps
REGION                Plan of maintenance dredging of existing outfall channels
Year 1               Year 2                Year 3
Region 3             Blankenburg           Stryk-en-Heuvel       Endeavour
La Jalousie          Windsor Forest        La Retraite
Doom Haag            Vergenogen            Doom Haag
Region 6             Adventure             Seawell               #43
#43                  CWC#l                 Whim
Eversham             CWC#2                 Bloomfield
Whim                 CWC#3                 Borlan
Bloomfield           Adventure             Adventure
Borlan               Eversham              Eversham
Component 2.1 Potable Water Service Recovery and Restoration --Beneficiaries
DROUGHT MITIGATION WORKS                                              POPULATION
BENEFITED
Four inch shallow wells (1-22) & distribution systems (20-22)             9,588
Six inch wells (1-19) & overhead storage tank (20)                       13,000
Ten inch wells (1-4)                                                      3,900
Four inch wells (1-13) & six wells (14-23)                                4,961
Riverine areas                                                            3,395
Four inch wells or hand dug wells                                         6,598
Hand dug wells (1-40) & drilled four inch wells (23-40)                  21,850
TOTAL    63,292



52
Annex 10
GUYANA: El Nifno Emergency Assistance Project
Environmental Mitigation Measures
For Rehabilitation/Construction Subprojects
The subprojects to be implemented as part of the El Niffo Emergency Assistance Project are
rehabilitation and construction of small structures (such as sluices, control doors, wells, pump support
structures, etc.) The potential environmental impacts during construction are temporary and can be
mitigated with the appropriate implementation of mitigation measures during construction. In order to
facilitate the implementation of such measures, the following guidance document will be provided to
contractors and supervisors and will be enforced during construction. The mitigation measures included
do not preclude the intervention of the environmental government authority that may require additional
actions.
I.   The mitigation measures included in this guidance document will be mandatory for the contractor
during project preparation, construction and completion. The supervision of the implementation of
the environmental mitigation measures will be part of the functions of the Project Coordinating
Unit.
2.   The contractor will inform the employees working on the construction site about these mitigation
measures.
3.   The costs of corrective actions needed to remediate environmental damages caused by the lack of
compliance of these mitigation measures will be the responsibility of the contractor.
4.   Soon after construction starts and during the entire construction period, the contractor will keep the
leaders of surrounding communities informed about the scope and schedule of the works. The
Contractor will also inform them about any safety issues and ways to avoid accidents. The
contractor will attend to any complaints from nearby communities regarding damages to the
environment. The contractor will provide all necessary information to the supervisory community
group if one is formed for the project.
5.   The contractor will minimize vegetation cutting. The wvaste material will be disposed of in
appropriate areas or burned in areas that do not present any risk of the fire spreading or
inconveniencing nearby population. The authorized burning will be performed away from water
bodies and irrigation canals to prevent contamination.
6.   Organic soils extracted during construction should be preserved adequately for its use in re-
vegetation activities after completion of works.
7.   The crossing of construction equipment through water bodies and irrigation canals should be
minimized.
8.   Storage of construction materials such as gravel, sand and other fine-grained materials should be
such that removal by wind or water is minimized. The storage of these materials should be located
away from irrigation canals and water bodies to prevent contamination.
9.   Fuel, oil, pesticides, herbicides and other hazardous materials should be stored in appropriate
containers clearly labeled. The storage location should be away form water bodies and irrigation
canals. Accidental spills of these materials should be promptly cleaned up.
10.  Used oil, plastics, tires, and other hazardous wastes should not be burned or disposed in sites where
it may affect water bodies, irrigation canal or vegetation.
11. The contractor should provide containers for collection of solid and liquid waste generated during
construction. These wastes should be periodically removed from the construction area to sites
conditioned for their reception and final disposal.
12.  Areas of fuel storage should be located at least 1 00m from houses and other facilities.



53
13.  Soils resulting from dredging operations, excavations or construction debris should not be
abandoned. The contractor will use these materials for filling of irrigation canal banks or other
areas previously agreed with the supervisor.
14.  The contractor will be responsible for safety of their workers and will take measures to minimize
and respond to accidents during construction.
15.  The contractor will ensure the application of all regulations and laws in Guyana related to the
conservation of protected flora and fauna, with specific attention to any protected areas that may be
located near the construction sites.
16.  The contractor will maintain signs indicating the population about the construction activities in
order to minimize accidents. If the construction site interferes with paths used by surrounding
population, provisional crossings clearly marked will be prepared by the contractor.
17.  The contractor will maintain the equipment used in the works to minimize spills and leaks of oil,
fuel and other hazardous materials, as well as gas emissions.
18.  The use of pesticides and herbicides will be minimized during construction.
19.  The contractor will maintain basic equipment for control of fires.
20.  Deviation of natural water courses will be minimized. If these deviations are necessary, the time of
construction should be minimized and the natural course of water should be promptly restored once
construction is completed.
21.  The construction equipment will not be washed in irrigation canals or water courses in order to
avoid contamination of water that may be used for human consumption or agriculture.
22.  After construction is completed, the contractor will take measures to ensure rapid re-vegetation of
areas where vegetation was removed during construction.
23.  The contractor will promptly repair any access road or other infrastructure that may have been
damaged during construction.
24.  If during excavation or dredging, the contractor encounters archaeological or culturally important
artifacts, construction activities in the specific area of the finding will be stopped and the
supervisor will be informed in order to define actions to be taken, such as reporting to the
appropriate institution or university for protection of the cultural artifact.
25.  The contractor will promptly remove all equipment from the construction site after completion.
Additionally, it will ensure that drainage of water is available from the construction area to
drainage canals or water bodies and no pools of water remain to reduce mosquito breeding.
Finally, all remaining waste and construction materials will be removed from the construction site
and storage areas after works are completed.



54
Annex 11
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$200,000              $66,900
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     Three months
First IDA mission (identification)              03/30/1998           03/30/1998
Pre-appraisal mission departure                 05/08/1998           05/08/1998
Appraisal                                       07/06/1998           07/13/1998
Negotiations                                    09/09/1998           09/17/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/30/1998
Prepared by: Civil Defense Commission, Presidential Secretariat
Preparation assistance: None
IDA staff who worked on the project included:
Thakoor Persaud                             Teamn Leader
Emmanuel Njomo                          Senior Financial Analyst
Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez             Environment and Water Resources Specialist
Efraim Jimenez                         Procurement Specialist
Hannah Koilpillai                        Disbursement Officer
Roberto Cucullu                            Country Lawyer
Frank van Houten                              Consultant
Marie-Adele Tchakounte                         Team Assistant
Notes: (1) The GOG requested IDA assistance in March, 1998 after the ENSO impacts were well-
advanced. Part of the explanation for this was because: (a) the impact of the drought took a while
to asses, (b) there was a national election in mid-December, 1997 after the death of President
Cheddi Jagan and (c) there were some post election denmonstrations and violence.
(2) The project was prepared in three months. However, Board presentation was affected by
delays in getting GOG actions for finalization of creation of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
and appointment of its coordinator. Part of the reason for GOG delays were (a) a civil service
strike and (b) continued post election civil disturbances.
(3) To minimize implementation obstacles once the project is approved, IDA worked with the
various project entities to satisfy all negotiation, disbursement and other loan processing
conditions before the Board Date. Key procurement actions were also advanced.



55
Annex 12
GUYANA: El Nifio Emergency Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operational Manual for the Coordinating Unit.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Assessment of Financial Management Capacity of the Coordinating Unit
* Assessment of Financial Management Capacity of the National Drainage and Irrigation
Board
* Assessment of the Procurement Process in Guyana
* Assessment of the capability of local contractors
C. Other
* Project Information Document
* Minutes of the PID Meeting
* Minutes of the PAD Meeting
* Proposed El Nifno Measures, The Guyana Water Authority, May 15, 1998
* El Nifno Proposals, Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners, May 13, 1998
* El Ninfo Emergency Proposals, The National Drainage and Irrigation Board, May 5, 1998
* Agricultural Credit Portfolio, Guyana National Credit Bank, April 20, 1998
* The Effect of El Niflo/La Nifia and Southern Oscillation on South American Precipitation,
(1997), Kemp Simon, M.Sc. Thesis, University of Reading, U.K.
* An investigation of the effects of ENSO on Guyana's Rainfall, (1998) K. Simon,
Hydrometeorological Department, Ministry of Agriculture, Guyana
- The Current Drought Period, Consequences and Impacts, (1995), Ministry of Agriculture,
Guyana
* Floods Rain in Guyana, (1996), Sheik Khan, Hydrometeorological Department, Ministry of
Agriculture, Guyana
* Press reports, floods 1996, various newspapers, Guyana
* First, Second, and Third Six-Monthly Progress Report on Assignment in Guyana, (1996/97),
R.K. Persaud, National Drainage and Irrigation Board, Ministry of Agriculture, Guyana
* Improvement and Dissemination Program of the Hydrometeorological Service
*Including electronic files.



56
Annex 13
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guyana
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 37
Active Loans
GY-PE-7269    IDA28790       1996   GOVERNMENTOF GUYANA                SECONDARY EDUCATION                0.00      17.30             0.00         14.87         4.89       0.00
GY-PE-34605   IDA26690       1995   GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA               FIN SCTR & BUS ENV                 0.00       3.50             0.00          1.42         8.42       1.62
GY-PE-7257    IDA25590       1994   GOVT OF GUYANA                     WATER/SEWERAGE                     0.00      17.50             0.00         10.29         7.35       0.00
GY-PE-7258    IDA24770       1993   GOVT OF GUYANA                     INFRASTRUCTURE REHAB               0.00      26.00             0.00          6.97         4.75       0.00
GY-PE-7266    IDA24800       1993   GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA               PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIO               0.00      12.00             0.00          4.99         5.01       0.00
Total                                                                                                     0.00      76.30             0.00         38.54        30.42       1.62
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   36.21              272.28              308.49
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               69.99                69.99
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   76.30              195.97              272.27
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                  .77                 .77
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 .77                 .77
Total Undisbursed                :                38.54                0.00               38.54
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



57
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval            Company           Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Onasi  Partic
1998                  GUYAM BANK               7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  SEF CARA LODGE            .68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  SEF IDS HL               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Committnent:          8.68    1.00    0.00    0.00



58
Annex 14
Guyana at a glance                                                               812617
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America    Low.
Guyana   & Carib.  Income       Developmentdlsmond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        0.84       485    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              710     3.710      500 Sfe expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USs)                               0.80     1.799    1.601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (X)                                         0.9        1.7      1.7     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (X)                                        1.9       2.3       1.7     per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty. headcount index (% of populason)
Urban population (% of total population)                36        74       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        66        69       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bitlhs)                60        37       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               3
Access to safe water (% of population)                  83        80       53
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      2        13       34          -     Guyana
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   98       110      105
Male                                                  98        ..      112              Low-income grup
Female                                                98        ..       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratloa'
GDP (millions USS)                          504.2    458.6     629.3    718.2
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                33.1     35.8      36.9     30.4
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            74.9     48.1     100.0    100.8              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                   33.0     22.0      28.1     25.3
Gross nabonal savingslGDP                       ..      ..       17.8     21.3
Current account balancelGDP                     ..      ..    -19.1       -9.2
Interest payments/GDP                         2.0      2.9       3.7       2.8     Savings                     Investment
Total debtUGDP                               60.9    326.2     334.5    221.7
Total debt serMceiexports                      ..       ..       17.3     14.2
Present value of debtlGDP                      ..       ..    251.5    169.9
Present value of debVexports                   ..       ..    251.7    168.5                   Indebtedness
197145  1936-96      1995      1916  199745
(average annual growth)                                                                      Guyana
GDP                                 -3.0      2.7      5.0       7.9      4.5                Low-income group
GNPpercapita                        -5.1      2.0      0.1        ..      3.5
Exports of goods and servces        -5.2      5.0      8.0       12.1      5.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%ofGDP)                                    '975      1985      1995     1996      Growth rates of output and Inveastment[%)
Agriculture                                  31.1     26.8       35.4     35.4     30
Industry                                     34.3     24.6      24.9     25.7      20
Manufacturing                              14.7      13.9       7.3      7.0 e    _
Servces                                      34.6     48.5      39.7     39.0      10
Private consumption                          47.4     59.9      58.5     57.7    -10 -     1    92   93   5'   ss
General govemment consumption                19.8     18.1      15.4      17.0.
Imports of gOods and seMices                 74.9     61.9     110.7    105.9                     GDI        GDP
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Im ports (Y)
Agriculture                                   0.0      5.1       8.0       7.7     25
Industry                                     -6.1    -0.1        0.7     11.3      20
Manufacturing                               -2.5    -6.8       12.5      2.9    1i
Servces                                      -2.0      1.1       5.3      6.1      100 /
Private consumption                          -1.2       ..      -4.5      5.6       o        /
General govemment consumption               -11.5              _10.5     19.1      4/5          92   93   94   50-9
Gross domestic Investment                   -13.1      Z3       24.9      -7.2    -10 -
Imports of goods and services                -8.2      1.4      -5.0      2.2                    E        0m r
Gross national product                       -4.3      Z6        5.0       7.9                                   o
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures In Italics are for years other than those spechlfed.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. n data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



59
Annex 14 - Guyana at a Glance
Guyana
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1998(
Dnmatk potcu                                                                        Inlation (1)
(N rAe)                                                                             ro
Consumerprdces                                 7.9     15.0       12.3      7.1
knpilitGDPdeflator                           14.7     14.5      11.5       5.8     '  
Governmenttlnotncito
(% of GDP)
Currenit renue                                  ..    40.0       33.5      34.0             *r   02    3    04 u           4
Current budget bnee                                   .3.6.        82      10.8              - GOd. -0--c
O01rall surplus/deficit                         ..   -54.4       -5.8      -4.t
TRADE
1975     1995      1999      19N
(noitonr US3)                                                                        Export nd import 1t (milL US%
Total e*xorts (fob)                             ,,     214        496      sOs      no
Other metals                                  ..       73         83       se
Sugar                                          ..     se        126       151
Manufactures                                   ..      21        28        22      0o
Tota imports (di)                               ..       ..       537      589
Food                                          ..        5        23        25     soc
Fuel and energy                                         ..       90       102
Exportpricelndex(1987=100)                      ..       82       130      135           so  SI92 U    U    U    U
Import price Index(1987.100)                    ..       ..       127      128                   JE*Wot      hpoub
Temisoftrade(1097100)                            ..      ..       102      105
BALANCE oi PAYMENTS
1978     1988      1995     1988
(nmiHinrs USS)                                                                      Curmnt aeaount balmn. to GOP ratio ()
Eponsrt orgoods and senres                      ..     245        829      724       a
Importsof goodsand sersrceu                            315        897      781      4   U    SI   U    U           seU 
Resource blance                                 ..     -70        -e8       -37        -
Net fctor Inoone                                ..     -71        484       -54     4
Not currenttansern                              ..       11        32       24      4
Current account balance,                                                            12 .
before ofiTaCl tcaptaltransfers               ..    -130        -120      -86     44
Flnancing Items (net)                           ..     -59        120      129    .4. 
Changes in net sers                             ..      189         a      -63    .sn
ReserAss Including gotd (mil. US$)            100         8       263      332
Con%srsion rute (loci/SS)                      2.4      4.3     140.0    140.2
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988      1995      1998
(nliono USS)                                                                        Composaion oftow debt, 195 (mill. USS)
Toet debt outsandinig and dlsbursed           307    1.495      2,105
IBRD                                         15       85         35       27                 F I
IOA                                           5       27        203      212                 F  51  t    2x
Total debt sernice                             24       73        109
IBRD                                          1        7          9        S.                                  7
IDA                                           0        0          2        2
Composition of net resource flows
Oltcial grants                                0        9         21        ..                                   D
Offiial crdfiors                             57       52          5        ..                                  401
Prsielecredfinrs                             41        -5       -10        ..              E
Foreign dect lnvoment                         1        2          3        ..             1Ce1
Portlollo equfty                              0        0          0
World Bank pmirorm
Commtments                                   12        9         22       20      A-eRD                        E-B bUbn-
Disbursemerds                                 a        3         18          16   s-IDA    D--O,UIt-laUaI  F.-FPnt.
Principal repymeants                          0        2          7        8      C-IMF                       G-Shd-ram
Netowt s                                      8         1        I I      1 '
hbntres papryemrrt                            1        4          5        4
Ntr bvnsfers                                  5        -4         8        8
Denlopment Economics                                                                                                 812897



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29867
~L  ~A~GU4iNA W       O
\~~~~rawhano                                      WE~~~~~~~~~~~NEZUE~BRNM
60    a t-: -. - :-.! -.NC GU-.-I---       ,ANA  v'.             rEfE_,UYA                  -
COLCOMBIA
VENEZUELA                                                                                                                MO A
)               ~~~~~~Port Kaityrma  Kunmaka0 
)M_= a f Kumska     ihe u   -                  w , s  R PEGR U  Snta Ra  >                    B R A Z I L
atRidgeO                        KwRbaGs           X      I                           BOLIVIA'
2~M~RidqeC 6y                                                                               20G                 I6 OS,
'---6Towakamara                      F ( '   'r   p
*   \'                     <    ssaSno                    d         p M cKeeldonk~~~~~~w.AOO  Ress
2~~~~~
\   1/              X       /h                  Sy       0 N Oltuni   f    lt        0tifN  ~
x~~~~~NJ                                             0   GOZ 0.       W
,~.                /          R         :~ss&is6 ,G                        G O N 8GET0W> <                NS S
GU AN                      -'~~             KaRIs 7o it                                 Bu b
/ *     O lS~~arlanam                                                    am.-ti<
R ockstan4p       Li      !
`,OKannarang                                                                                               Va
I~ssano                               McFinsipOJ'Cia
_~~~~~~~~~~~ RIERN AREAS~                                                                           '0   iJiONf  9 C \!
E6'        K
. ..    RANAE  ND RRGAIO  W RiS{Snd Ciek    /                  't                    /              >
Hoim                N         AION C
R GION 8
ITNOKaIE                         K    k Lumialp                            SURINAME
BRAZIL                                                            L Ln                                 B
GUYANA                           _7~                            
EL NIN~O EMERGENCY
ASSISTANCE PROJECT    J                                                     Q)raani, %K
POTABLE WATER SUIPPL WORKS:                                                                   m           l
IIhEPOPULATED COASTAL AREAS      /;ALethem
uuu;HIGH DENSITY AREAS          (/                                                                  t
-   RIVERINE AREAS                        'REGION                9
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION WORKS (OSand Creek                                                                                          9
Wichc6ai 
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
TOWNS                               0 Raoad               ihl
RIVERS                                               QAhtn~/                                  R    G O          6
REGION BOUNDARIES               ~Lmidpau                                                                     N
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIE5                                                               /
O     20    40    60    80 Kilometers                                             /B A I
I    I    I                                                flub n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,a  _nn pndc by u. Ma4p D.,iqa U/ni aPTh Wood Bank
0    10  20   30  '40  .5O ail.                                                                 The Baanonn, d-nani-nn and any tn/banr-a/one.a
1  *                S,anrn~~d--  an b/u -p Sn na//nuy, an thn pau/ of Ru War/ Bank
OCTOBER 1998



