Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3139-GUA
Development Credit Agreement
(El Niño Emergency Assistance Project)
between
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3139-GUA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1998, between CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS (B)  the Borrower has entered into each Subsidiary Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined) on terms and conditions which have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; and
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
Page  2
1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Bank of Guyana” means the central bank of the Borrower;
(b)
“CDC” means Civil Defense Commission, an administrative subdivision of 
the Office of the Borrower’s Presidency, as established under the Borrower’s Cabinet 
Administrative Decision (CP) (97) 2: of February 6, 1997, which has responsibility for 
coordinating all ENSO related operations within the Borrower’s territories;
(c)
“CTB” means Central Tender Board, an administrative subdivision of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, as established under the Borrower’s Audit Ordinance 
Law No. 8 on March 29, 1958;
(d)
“ENSO” means the meteorological phenomenon known as El Niño Southern 
Oscillation;
(e)
GS&WC” means Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners, a legal entity 
established under the Borrower’s Georgetown Sewerage and Water Act, Chapter 30.01, as 
amended up to September 15, 1998;
(f)
“GUYWA” means Guyana Water Authority, a legal entity established under 
the Borrower’s Act No. 3 of 1972 denominated Guyana Water Authority Act, Chapter 
55.01, as amended up to September 15, 1998;
(g)
“Ministry” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Communications 
and Regional Development;
(h)
“NDIB” means National Drainage and Irrigation Board, a legal entity 
established under the Borrower’s Drainage and Irrigation Act, Chapter 64.03, as 
amended up to September 15, 1998;
(i)
“PEU” means the project execution unit established as an administrative 
subdivision of the Ministry and vested with responsibility to handle civil works 
contracts entered into by the Borrower through such Ministry, on June 29, 1993;
(j)
“Project Implementation Entity means each of CDC, GS&WC, GUYWA, NDIB, PEU 
and the Unit, all referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and each reference in 
the General Conditions to a Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a 
reference to the aforesaid entities;
(k)
“Region” means each of the following Borrower administrative regions 
(other than the Georgetown area) in which activities will be carried out under the 
Project,  numbered as shown in the map attached to the letter from the Borrower to the 
Bank of even date herewith; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means each of the agreements entered into between 
the Borrower and each of NDIB, GS&WC and GUYWA on October 8, 1998 for purposes of 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as each of such agreements may be amended from 
time to time subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement;
(n)
“Table” means the table set forth in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, as amended from time to time or otherwise modified in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.04 of the General Conditions; and
(o)
“Unit” means the Project coordinating unit established as an 
administrative subdivision of CDC, as reflected in the letter from the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance dated September 15, 1998.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR6,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project and through the Bank of 
Guyana, open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall cause the Bank of Guyana to follow 
the Borrower’s instructions in connection with the operation of the Special Account 
and to take such actions as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2009 and ending August 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
Page  4
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The head of the Unit is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through CDC: (i) with the assistance of: (A) NDIB in respect of Part 
A.1 of the Project; (B) the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture in respect of Part A.2 
of the Project; (C) GUYWA in respect of Parts B.1 (a) and B.2 (a) of the Project; (D) 
GS&WC in respect of Parts B.1 (b) and B.2 (b) of the Project; and (E) PEU in respect  
of Part C of the Project; and (ii) under the coordination of the Unit in respect of: 
(A) all payments to be made by each of GS&WA, GUYWA, NDIB and PEU under the Project; 
and (B) furnishing to the Bank all reports, data and information which the Borrower is 
required to furnish to the Association under this Agreement. The Borrower shall carry 
out  all of the above with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering and environmental practices.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that each Project Implementation Entity and the 
Borrower’s Central Tender Board remain operational until a date six months after the 
date on which the report provided for under Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions 
has been submitted to the Association; and (ii) provide promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project and to operate the 
aforesaid entities, including but not limited to, services of individuals with 
qualifications, experience and under terms of employment satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Association to occupy the following positions in the following Project 
Implementation Entities:
(i)
NDIB: three engineers, including a senior one;
(ii)
GUYWA and GS&WC: one senior technical expert whose services shall 
be shared by 
both Project Implementation Entities;
(iii)  GUYWA: two engineers; and
Page  5
(iv)
Unit: a coordinator, a financial accounting specialist and an 
environmental specialist.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit required to 
be used for purposes of Parts A.1 of the Project to NDIB, Parts B.1 (a) and B.2 (a) of 
the Project to GUYWA, and Parts B.1 (b) and B.2 (b) of the Project to GS&WC, under the 
respective Subsidiary Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Subsidiary 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that services of independent professional 
auditors are hired pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Part B of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement and are available throughout Project execution to carry out, in respect 
of each semester of the respective calendar years, an audit of the procurement of 
goods and services (including works) carried out during the Semester in question; and 
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case, not later than 
thirty days after the end of the semester in question, a report of such audit of said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have requested.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by not later than January 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation and maintenance of the facilities 
provided or repaired under the Project, with a view to taking action in a timely 
fashion so as to ensure the sustainability of said facilities; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of CDC, 
including the Unit, and of each of the Project Implementation Entities responsible for 
assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project or of any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained by each Project Implementation 
Entity, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
NDIB or GUYWA or GS&WC shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the corresponding Subsidiary Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that NDIB or  GUYWA or GS&WC will be able to perform their 
respective obligations under the corresponding Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to 
Page  7
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that each Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NDIB or GS&WC or GUYWA, as 
applicable, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NDIB, GS&WC and GUYWA, 
respectively.
Section 6.02. The date of February 12, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Main and Urquart Streets
Georgetown
Guyana
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
3038
Guyana
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
By /s/ Mohamed Ali Odeen Ishmael 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
3,020,000
80%
(2)
Goods
2,640,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
  380,000
100%
services
(4)
Unallocated
  760,000
 ________
TOTAL
6,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR760,000 equivalent, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after March 26, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts which are not subject to prior review under either Part D.2 of Section 
I or Part D.2 of Section II, both of Schedule 3, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help restore: (i) the Borrower’s 
agricultural capacity in drought-stricken areas by reducing their vulnerability to 
hydrologic extremes; (ii) safe and reliable water services to drought-affected 
marginal urban, hinterland and riverine communities in the territory of the Borrower; 
and (iii) flood protection in the lowlying areas of the City of Georgetown.
Page  9
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Production Capacity Recovery and Regeneration Program
1.
Drainage and Irrigation
Repair of damages, such as silted trenches and weakened walls, caused to the 
Borrower’s drainage and irrigation system, in order to enable such system to function 
properly and thus support agricultural production in the Borrower’s coastal area (by 
adequately discharging waters during the rainy season and/or helping in irrigation 
activities when the rainy season begins). Such repairs will include, inter alia, 
acquisition of mobile and gravel pumps, rehabilitation of fixed pumps, sluices, 
drainage ditches, outfalls and conservancy structures and construction of new small 
water control structures. 
2.
Strengthening of Borrower’s Hydrometereological Network
(a)
Upgrading of facilities in selected stations of the network through 
acquisition and installation of equipment, such as water level recorders, rainfall 
gauges, communication equipment, evaporimeters and automatic weather stations; and 
(b)
support of a dissemination program aimed at: (i) improving the reporting 
of hydrometeorological predictions and information analysis; (ii) promoting the use of 
enhanced hydrometeorological data; and (iii) developing strategies to promote the use 
of hydrometeorological devices (all of the above so as to enable affected groups to 
make informed decisions specifically related to predicted events of warm and cold 
phases of ENSO).
Part B:
Potable Water Service Recovery and Restoration Program
1.
Recovery and Restoration Program
(a)
Improvement of the safety and reliability of potable water supply in 
Regions where communities are dependent upon rain and/or surface water, and providing 
supplementary water transmission and distribution facilities required to help avoid 
the use of tanker trucks; and 
(b)
execution of pipeline replacement works to improve water supply to 
Georgetown consumers in the low-income area of North Ruimveldt who are poorly supplied 
at the end of the distribution system and to eliminate asbestos/cement pipes which 
serve this area. 
2.
Drought Mitigation Measures
(a)
Execution of emergency potable water works in areas of Regions 1, 2, 5, 
7, 8 and 9 which are vulnerable to and affected by drought (such as drilling of wells 
and installation of water pumps to be available in central locations for use by 
populations whose surface water dried up or became saline during the last ENSO warm 
phase) and construction of a storage facility of 10,000 gallons in Charity in Region 2 
at the mid-point of the Pomeroon River length;  and 
(b)
construction of a 500,000 gallons ground storage tank in Georgetown to 
provide emergency storage to help GS&WC better meet potable water and fire prevention 
needs during periods in the day when water is not being pumped in GS&WC system. 
Part C:
Georgetown Flood Protection Restoration Program
Rehabilitation of two main sluices and installation of two supplementary pumps 
of 30” and 36” diameter, respectively in Kity and Liliandaal, all in order to reduce 
flooding in Georgetown and to protect recent investments made for drainage flow canals 
and street rehabilitation. 
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening 
Page  10
Provision of technical assistance and acquisition and utilization of related 
equipment, so as to help the Unit perform its coordinating functions under the Project 
and other functions derived therefrom.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Prequalification
In order to avoid delays in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower has 
put in place through its CTB, a streamlined system based on CDC’s emergency 
procurement procedures and the Association’s Standard Bidding Document. The system 
shall be maintained in form and substance satisfactory to the Association throughout 
the carrying out of the Project and unless the Borrower and the Association shall have 
otherwise agreed, bidders for works under the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the procedures of the said system and the applicable provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. Each review of the prequalified 
contractors, shall be subject to prior review by the Association.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods (with the exception of provisions 
in (a) below) and works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped by each of 
PEU, NDIB, GS&WC or GUYWA, as the case may be, in bid packages estimated to cost 
$500,000 equivalent or more each, on the basis of the following priorities: (a) state 
of preparation of the corresponding design and bidding documents; (b) nature of the 
works; (c) geographical proximity and Regions declared under emergency. Pumps, 
ancillary electromechanical equipment and other goods for the Project shall be grouped 
so as to form  bid packages estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, and which 
cannot be grouped as provided for under Part B.2 (b) above, either because of their 
nature or because the detailed design and bills or quantities will not be ready, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
Page  11
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Pumps, ancillary equipment and other goods which cannot be grouped as required 
under Part B.2 (b) above, i.e. forming packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$75,000 or more may, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines to the 
extent that standard request forms and deadlines for receiving offers shall be used 
and established, respectively, all as set forth in an operational manual satisfactory 
to the Association.
3.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts, including gaskets, belts and movable parts of electromechanical 
equipment of existing pumping installation, and sluice gates and doors which, along 
with the installation and commissioning of the facilities, may be grouped in packages 
to be procured and purchased from the original supplier or manufacturer; to the extent 
the cost of each package contract is less than the equivalent of $10,000, each such 
contract may, up to an aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent and with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Small repair works and works, including hand-dug wells, which are scattered and 
will not attract competition, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, and up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic or pre-qualified foreign contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully, all as set forth in the operational manual satisfactory to 
the Association referred to in Part C.2 above.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B of this Section, 
and the first two contracts to be awarded under Part C.1 of this Section in each 
calendar year, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts to be awarded under Parts C.2 and 
C.4 of this Section in each calendar year, and all contracts to be awarded under Part 
C.3 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under 
shopping or price quotation procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
Page  12
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, 
namely that the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for accounts and records or procurement auditing firms may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the preparation of financial and accounting information system(s) 
which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for short tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, to the extent the aggregate of contracts so awarded shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $75,000.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  13
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms: (i) 
to be procured under Part C.2 of this Section, irrespective of its cost; or (ii) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms: (i) 
to be procured under Part C.1 of this Section, irrespective of its cost; or (ii) 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means the Categories 1 through 3 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  14
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  15
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
