CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 498 JO
Project Agreement
(Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
JORDAN VALLEY COMMISSION
DATED JULY 25, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 498 JO
Project Agreement
(Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
JORDAN VALLEY COMMISSION
DATED JULY 25, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and JORDAN
VALLEY COMMISSION (hereinafter called JVC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that JVC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS JVC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JVC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist JVC      in the design of project works,
procurement of project goods and supervision of project execution, JVC shall
employ a firm of engineering consultants, as well as marketing, grading and
accounting consultants all acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, JVC shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) JVC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by JVC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, JVC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) JVC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   JVC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JVC
Section 3.01. JVC shall at all times be staffed by adequate, qualified and
experienced personnel and shall consult with the Association prior to making any
changes in its organizational structure.
Section 3.02. JVC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. JVC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. JVC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of JVC including separate accounts for the Project and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and JVC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and JVC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of JVC and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.


﻿6
Section 5.02. The Association and JVC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. JVC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of JVC and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of JVC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify JVC of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,


﻿7
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For JVC:
Jordan Valley Commission
P.O. Box 1970
Amman, Jordan
Cable address:
JOVACO
Amman
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of JVC may be taken or executed by President of JVC or such other person or
persons as the President shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. JVC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of JVC, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by JVC pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿8
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M.P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
JORDAN VALLEY COMMISSION
By /s/ Abdullah Salah
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines for Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1 0,000 or more and with respect to any contract for civil works
estimated to cost $200,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, JVC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by JVC to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and JVC shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, JVC shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, JVC shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform JVC and the
Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise JVC of any
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿10
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works and equipment JVC shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform JVC
and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise JVC
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement
or included in the foregoing sub-paragraphs of this Schedule, the Association may
accept (i) that contracts for equipment and materials costing less than $10,000
equivalent each may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's usual
procurement procedures, provided, however, that the aggregate cost does not exceed
$100,000, and (ii) that, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I.2 of the
Guidelines for Procurement, the construction works for Parts B2, 3, 4, 5 and 6
of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement may be subject to local
competitive bidding in accordance with the contracting procedures acceptable to
the Association.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference


﻿11
to goods manufactured in Jordan in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jordan if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Jordan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in Jordan other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group. C:  bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


