Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4644 - NG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector and Public Financial Management  
Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 24, 2009  
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4644 - NG 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Page  2
2
AGREEMENT dated September 24, 2009, entered into between the FEDERAL 
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under 
the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the 
Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient 
and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to three hundred and 
twenty three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR323,000,000) (variously, “Credit” and 
“Financing). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date 
of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipie
nt’s Representative is the 
Federal Minister of Finance
.
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
The Honorable Minister  
Federal Ministry of Finance  
Ahmadu Bello Way 
Abuja, Nigeria 
 
Facsimile:  
234 9 6273609 
 
Page  4
4
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Abuja, Federal Republic of Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
By  /s/ Mansur Muhtar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By  /s/ Onnu Rahl 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following measures, all 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Letter of Development Policy:
 
A. 
CBN has: 
1. 
taken action to ensure the liquidity of the banking system by: (a) providing a new 
extended window facility and expanding the range of acceptable collateral for 
borrowing; (b) reducing the liquidity ratio requirement from 40% to 25%; (c) 
reducing the reserve requirement from 4% to 1%; and (d) reducing the monetary 
policy rate from 9.75% to 8%; 
2. 
adopted a timetable for: (a) banks to implement IFRS-based regulatory reporting  
as of December 31, 2010; and (b) all banks to implement a January 1 to  
December 31 financial year;
 
3. 
adopted a program for introduction of consolidated risk-based banking 
supervision; and 
4. 
placed resident inspectors in all banks.  
B. 
The Recipient has: 
5. 
enacted its 2009 budget using a conservative oil price of US$45 per barrel; 
6. 
continued to implement a policy under which the Excess Crude Account is 
credited with excess oil revenue (after compensating for shortfalls in revenue);  
7. 
enacted its 2009 budget containing recurrent spending to N1.6273 trillion (61.4 
percent) and increasing capital spending to N1.0223 trillion (38.6 percent) of its 
budget (excluding statutory transfers and debt service); 
8. 
released capital expenditure of N187 billion to MDAs by January 31, 2009; 
9. 
adopted a framework for  strategic interventions to address supply constraints and 
unemployment in the context of the global economic crisis; 
10. 
implemented the interim Accounting Transaction Recording and Reporting 
System; 
11. 
adopted the Cash Management Policy;  
Page  6
6
12. 
enacted and made operational the Public Procurement Act and implementation 
regulations consistent with international best practices, and made the regulations 
available to the public; and 
13. 
published on a bi-monthly basis public procurement contract awards in the 
National Procurement Journal and on the BPP website. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
323,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
323,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into a 
US$ account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon  deposit of an amount of the Financing into this 
account referred to in paragraph (1) above , an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of the amounts of the Financing into the Recipient’s 
budget management system
 
referred to in Part C of this Section audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months 
after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; 
and  
Page  7
7
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account and 
recording of the amounts of the Financing into the budget management system, and their 
audit, as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
 
Page  8
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 1 and October 1: 
1% 
commencing October 1, 2019 to and including April 
1, 2029 
1% 
commencing October 1, 2029 to and including April 
1, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Accounting Transaction Recording and Reporting System” means a computerized 
system used by the Recipient’s Office of the Accountant General to record transactions at 
the various Federal Pay Offices (FPOs), MDAs and at the main Treasury and  electronic 
transcripts of transactions submitted by the FPOs and MDAs to the Treasury using 
compact discs for consolidation and reporting. 
 
2. 
“BPP” means the Bureau of Public Procurement of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
“Cash Management Policy” means the process by which cash is controlled to ensure that 
it is readily available when needed to undertake government activities in a cost-effective 
manner by avoiding idle cash balances and investing surplus cash prudently. 
 
4. 
“CBN” means the Central Bank of Nigeria. 
 
5. 
“Excess Crude Account” means an account as defined in Part VII of the Recipient’s 
Fiscal Responsibility Act 2007 which shall form part of the respective Government’s 
Consolidated Revenue Fund and where excess proceeds resulting from a rise of the 
reference commodity price above the predetermined price are being saved. 
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not 
containing tobacco 
Page  10
10 
 
substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver 
or platinum group 
metals (except watches 
and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“IFRS” means international financial reporting standards. 
 
Page  11
11 
 
9. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Recipient’s letter to the Association dated 
June 22, 2009 declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
10. 
“MDAs” means the Recipient’s ministries, departments and agencies. 
 
11. 
“Naira” or “N” means the lawful currency of the Recipient. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
economic governance and reduce poverty and set forth or referred to in the Letter of 
Development Policy dated June 22, 2009.   
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
Page  12
12 
 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program specified in the Recipient’s Letter of 
Development Policy dated June 22, 2009 and referred to in the Financing 
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to 
“Project” throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
