                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001753



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-46440)



                                         ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR323 MILLION
                       (US$ 500 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                       FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                         FOR A

                        DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT



                                 February 28, 2011




Finance and Private Sector Development
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective February 19, 2010)

                  Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                         NGN 1.00 = US$ 0.0066
                       US$ 1.00 = NGN 152.2070

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




                            ABBREVIATIONS

AML/CTF   Anti-Money Laundering/Combating of Terrorist Financing
ATRRS     Accounting Transactional Recording and Reporting System
BPP       Bureau of Public Procurement
CAC       Company Affairs Commission
CBN       Central Bank of Nigeria
CDD       Community Driven Development
CPIA      Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CRMS      Credit Risk Management System
CSCS      Central Securities and Clearing Systems
CSOs      Civil Society Organizations
DMO       Debt Management Office
DPC       Development Policy Credit
ECA       Excess Crude Oil Account
e-FASS    Enhanced Financial Analysis and Surveillance System
EFCC      Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
FIRS      Federal Inland Revenue Service
FIRST     Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FPD       Finance and Private Sector
FRA       Fiscal Responsibility Act
FSS2020   Financial Sector Strategy 2020
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GIFMIS    Government Integrated Financial Management Information System
GTZ       Gesellschaft fur Teknische Zusammenarbejde
IDA       International Development Association
IFRS      International Financial Reporting Standards
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IPO           Initial Public Offering
IPSAS         International Public Sector Accounting Standard
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MDAs          Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MDG           Millennium Development Goals
MFB           Microfinance Bank
NACRDB        National Agricultural and Co-operative Development Bank
NAICOM        National Insurance Commission
NASB          Nigerian Accounting Standards Board
NDIC          Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation
NEEDS         Nigeria Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NEITI         Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
NLSS          Nigeria Living Standards Survey
NSE           Nigerian Stock Exchange
PEMFAR        Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PENCOM        National Pension Commission
PFM           Public Financial Management
PPP           Public Private Partnerships
PREM          Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PSI -         Policy Support Instrument
RTGS          Real-Time Gross Settlement
SAS           Nigerian Accounting Standards
SEC           Securities and Exchange Commission
SMEs          Small and Medium Enterprises
TSA           Treasury Single Account
VFM           Value For Money




         Vice President        Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
         Country Director      Onno Ruhl

         Sector Director       Marilou Uy / Marcelo Giugale

         Sector Manager        Paul Noumba Um / Jan Walliser

         Task Team Leader      Michael Fuchs / Volker Treichel

         ICR Team Leader       Ismail Radwan

         ICR Team Members      Gloria Joseph-Raji, Pierre Strauss,
                               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                   Development Policy Credit


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 36
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 38
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 43
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 44

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 45
Annex 2. Nigeria Country at a Glance .......................................................................... 46
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 47
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 48
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 49
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50


MAP…………………………………………………………………………………...53
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Financial Sector and
                                                                         Public Financial
Country:                Nigeria                 Program Name:            Management
                                                                         Development Policy
                                                                         Credit
Program ID:             P117088                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-46440
ICR Date:               02/28/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         THE FEDERAL
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:                REPUBLIC OF
                                                                         NIGERIA
Original Total
                        XDR 323.0M              Disbursed Amount:        XDR 323.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 323.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Federal Ministry of Finance
 Central Bank of Nigeria
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/15/2009    Effectiveness:                                  01/06/2010
Appraisal:             06/08/2009    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/28/2009    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010           06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                            Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               30                  30
General finance sector                                                20                  20
General public administration sector                                  50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             20                  20
Macroeconomic management                                              30                  30
Other financial and private sector development                        30                  30
Regulation and competition policy                                     20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Onno Ruhl                            Onno Ruhl
Sector Manager:            Paul Noumba Um                       Iradj A. Alikhani
Program Team Leader:       Michael J. Fuchs                     Michael J. Fuchs
ICR Team Leader:           Ismail Radwan
ICR Primary Author:        Ismail Radwan


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
In responding to the on-going global financial crisis the credit is intended to provide
budgetary support to the Federal Government of Nigeria to offset the fiscal impact of the
crisis and support the Government in maintaining its current economic reform path in the


                                                 ii
financial sector, fiscal policy, management and governance. The three program objectives
are: (i) maintaining confidence and stability in the Financial System; (ii) strengthening
the Banking System; and (iii) supporting the objectives of the 2009 budget focused on
raising Government investment spending to accelerate non-oil growth.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally     Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target      Completion or
                                                documents)         Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Measures to stabilize the banking system
                                            Banking system
                                            liquidity restored;
                   Extended Discount        borrowing at EDW
                   Window (EDW) in          below
                                                                             The extended
                   place & heavy            N200bn/day;
                                                                             discount window
Value              borrowing from banks parallel US$/N
                                                                             was shut down.
(quantitative or   at around N480bn/day; rate within 10% of
                                                                             The parallel
Qualitative)       Liquidity ratio req. at interbank
                                                                             exchange market
                   25%; Reserve req. at rate;reduces
                                                                             has disappeared.
                   1%; Monetary policy Liquidity Ratio to
                   rate at 6%.              25%, Reserve
                                            Ratio to1%, MPR
                                            to 8%.
Date achieved      08/30/2008               06/30/2010                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Strengthening the banking system.
                                           Banking system
                   Timetable on IFRS       more sound &
                   adoption (by Jan 2012) transaprent.CAR                    A timetable to
                   & common financial      above 15%                         implement IFRS by
Value
                   year-end for banks;     through 2009;                     2012 has been
(quantitative or
                   plan to introduce       improved                          adopted. Capital
Qualitative)
                   consolidated risk-based reporting/accounti                adequacy was 16.8
                   supervision; resident   ng encourages                     by end 2009.
                   inspectors placed.      investment in
                                           bank debt.
Date achieved      08/30/2008              06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)


                                                iii
Indicator 3 :      Federal Government expenditure in % of non-oil GDP.
                                                                            In 2009 Federal
                   FGN expenditure in                                       Government
                                         FGN expenditure
Value              2006, 2007 & 2008 was                                    Expenditure was
                                         in 2010 is within
(quantitative or   14.4, 17.8 & 17.3% of                                    19.8% (of non-oil
                                         range of 14-18%
Qualitative)       non-oil GDP                                              GDP) and a further
                                         of non-oil GDP.
                   respectively.                                            4.3% was sourced
                                                                            from the ECA.
Date achieved      08/30/2008              06/30/2010                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Execution rate of federal capital budget
                                            Capital budget
Value              FGN capital budget                                       Capital budget
                                            implementation
(quantitative or   execution rate was                                       execution in 2009
                                            moves to above
Qualitative)       50.7% in 2008.                                           was 72%
                                            60% in 2010.
Date achieved      08/30/2008               06/30/2010                      06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
                   Number of FGN MDAs producing their month-end financial statements within
Indicator 5 :
                   7 days using ATRRS.
                                                                       67% of FGN
                                        Over 75% of of
                                                                       MDAs produced
                   15% of FGN MDAs      FGN MDAs
                                                                       month-end financial
Value              producing month-end produce month-
                                                                       statements within 7
(quantitative or   financial statements end financial
                                                                       days at the
Qualitative)       within 7 days using  statements within
                                                                       completion of the
                   ATRRS in 2008.       7 days using
                                                                       implementation
                                        ATRRS.
                                                                       period.
Date achieved      08/30/2008           06/30/2010                     06/30/2010
Comments
                   By December 2010, 77% of MDAs are producing financial statements within 7
(incl. %
                   days.
achievement)
                   Number of national government contracts using national standard bidding
Indicator 6 :
                   documents. Number of FGN contract awards above N75ml that are published.
                                           Public
                                           procurement act &
                                           implementation                    65% of FGN
                   45% of FGN
                                           regulations                       contracts are using
                   government contracts
                                           consistent with                   national standard
Value              using national standard
                                           international best                bidding documents.
(quantitative or   bidding documents and
                                           practice,                         And 100% of FGN
Qualitative)       90% of FGN contract
                                           operational &                     contract awards
                   awards above N75ml
                                           public. Contract                  above N75 million
                   published in 2008.
                                           awards published                  are published.
                                           in national
                                           procurement


                                                iv
                                             Journal & BPP
                                             website.
Date achieved      08/30/2008                06/30/2010                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
      Indicator       Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
                   There are no intermediate indicators for this DPL - it will close on June 30,
Indicator 1 :
                   2010
Value
(quantitative or   none                      none
Qualitative)
Date achieved      03/24/2010                06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      12/31/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  2      03/27/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 507.52



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                    v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Nigeria’s macroeconomic context in late 2008 / early 2009

1.     Nigeria is Africa’s most populous nation, the world’s 8th largest oil-producer, but
remains one of the poorest nations in the world (140th in terms of GDP per capita).

2.      Nigeria’s economy grew rapidly over the past decade. Nigeria returned to
democratic governance in 1999, after 16 years of military rule, and has enjoyed a decade
of relative peace and prosperity since then. The strong economic performance was driven
primarily by non-oil growth which reached an annual growth rate of 9 percent. Greater
attention was also paid to improving the investment climate, strengthening governance
and boosting investments in privatized sectors such as telecoms. Combined, these
measures attracted increasing capital inflows (including remittances and foreign direct
investment), and stimulated domestic demand.

3.     Prudent economic management enabled the acceleration of non-oil growth.
The management of oil revenues was enhanced with the introduction of an oil-price
based fiscal rule, for government expenditure, in 2004. Under the rule, government
adopted a conservative oil reference price and saved surplus oil revenues in the Excess
Crude Account (ECA). Nigeria’s economic profile was also greatly improved by its
successful efforts to secure the largest debt write-off in the history of the Paris Club
reducing its external debt from US$33 billion in 2003 to just US$3.5 billion in 2006.

4.      Over the years, Nigeria’s government has been committed to improved
macroeconomic policies and better governance. Recent progress is reflected in a
sharply improved rating on the World Bank's Country Policy and Institutional
Assessment (CPIA) which rose from 2.8 in 2006 to 3.4 in 2010. In the area of public
financial management, the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA) and new Procurement Law
were enacted in 2007 at the Federal level and similar laws are being adopted by all the
states. The Accounting Transactional Recording and Reporting System (ATRRS), and a
computerized Federal payroll management system were launched. Preparation of the
Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) had gained
pace and an E-payment system introduced in 2008 promised to increase transparency and
accountability further. To improve governance of the oil and gas sector, Nigeria adopted
and is implementing the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI).

5.     Financial sector reforms have also contributed to improved economic
performance. Major reform of the financial sector started in 2004 with a 13-point
reform agenda issued and implemented by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Among
important reforms undertaken in the financial sector were the complete overhaul of the
Nigerian pension system (initiated in 2004) and the establishment of the debt
management office responsible for developing the market for government securities. The
recent development of a roadmap to implement the Financial System Strategy 2020


                                           1
(FSS2020) contributed significantly to reform and strengthening of the non-bank
financial sector. Parallel initiatives were also undertaken to increase transparency and
reduce corruption through the establishment of the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission (EFCC).

6.      A high degree of oil dependence makes Nigeria vulnerable to swings in
commodity prices. Oil accounts for more than 95 percent of export earnings, 85 percent
of government revenues and about 20 percent of GDP. Although sectors other than oil
have accounted for the largest share of economic growth, these sectors (trade, agriculture,
and telecommunications) have also expanded from rapid growth in domestic demand that
can be at least indirectly associated with oil-related inflows.

7.      During 2007-2008, risks in the banking sector escalated in the context of an
asset price bubble. During 2004-2006, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) dramatically
raised the minimum capital requirements for a universal banking license from N2.5 to
N25 billion. Small banks exited the market, others merged and all the survivors looked
to raise capital on the stock market. In an effort to attain – and in many cases exceed –
the CBN’s new higher minimum capital requirement bank managers, exploited the lax
regulatory climate and provided margin loans to their customers, allowing them to
purchase bank shares on credit. Many customers used the margin loans to adopt highly
leveraged positions.

8.      By the beginning of 2008, the Nigerian stock market had become hugely
overvalued, with a price earnings ratio of 57 (4th highest in the world), and more than 70
percent of the stock market capitalization was accounted for by banks that had used
margin loans to artificially inflate their share prices. This exposed the domestic banking
sector directly to risks from the corresponding asset price bubble. As stock prices fell
rapidly, customers defaulted on the margin loans which came to account for a large part
of the banks’ non-performing loan (NPL) portfolio. The extent of this exposure was not
known in Nigeria until the Central Bank carried out special inspections in the second half
of 2009 as the banks had systematically concealed their losses.. These special
inspections also revealed that banks had sizeable non-performing loan exposures inter
alia to the downstream oil sector. As a result of the special inspections reported NPLs
rose from less than 5% in 2008 to close to 60% by end 2009.


Impact of the Global Financial Crisis

9.      Given the country’s high oil dependence, the global financial crisis, and
associated collapse of commodity prices, presented a major threat to hard won
economic and political stability in Nigeria. The sharp and rapid decline of oil prices
from almost 150 to under 40 dollars a barrel delivered a huge negative shock to the
balance of payments and budgetary position of the country, wiping out surpluses and
creating sizeable deficits. Federal budgetary revenues in 2009 declined by 48 percent
relative to 2008, while gross foreign reserves fell from US$ 60 to 43 billion between June
2008 and June 2009. The deterioration in the balance of payment position reflected not



                                           2
only the direct impact on the current account from lower oil prices, but significant capital
outflows. Capital flows plus errors and omissions in the 2009 Nigeria balance of
payments amounted to a deficit of US$ 22 billion.

10.     The external shock was also projected to result in a rapid slow-down of the
non-oil economy and put pressures on the exchange rate. Non-oil growth, which had
reached a range of 8-9 percent was expected to slow down to 3-4 percent in 2009-10,
with adverse consequences for the real economy and employment. In line with the
declining foreign exchange earnings and weakening confidence, the naira entered a
period of sharp depreciation in late 2008 and early 2009, as a result of which the Central
bank resorted to temporary foreign exchange restrictions, generating a substantial wedge
between official and parallel exchange rates. 1

11.     A collapse in asset prices left a number of large commercial banks illiquid
and insolvent. Stock market collapses in the world’s financial centers started in May
2008. Developing country stock markets almost immediately flowed suit with the
Morgan Stanley Capital International Market Index falling by 23 percent within a week.
The sharp decline in asset prices in Nigeria made the above-mentioned margin loans non-
performing. These loans had constituted the majority of the massive credit expansion in
the years directly preceding the crisis. Nigeria thereby faced a potential full scale
financial crisis in additional to the enormous balance of payment and budgetary
challenges brought on by the fall in oil prices.

12.     Pessimistic predictions from many experts on the extent and duration of the
global economic crisis implied especially high risks and uncertainty for Nigeria .
While Nigeria had succeeded in strengthening its fiscal situation and in building up its
international reserves position as a buffer in the oil boom years, these resources were
limited and could not cope with exceptionally low oil prices over a number of years.


Government’s response to the crisis

13.     In response to the economic downturn the Federal Government of Nigeria
(FGN) and the CBN took immediate and proactive actions including; establishing a
Presidential Committee to coordinate FGN’s anti-crisis program; measures to stabilize
the banking system and restore confidence; fiscal adjustments and the design of programs
to offset the impact on the poor; and, administrative reforms designed to improve revenue
collection and the quality and transparency of Government expenditures. Government
also stayed the course on macroeconomic stability measures (including the oil-price
based fiscal rule, targeting growth bottlenecks, containing recurrent costs and wages,
reducing subsidies, and prudent borrowing). All were important to build the confidence



1
  The exchange restrictions were eventually removed as part of the policy dialogue under
the DPC.



                                            3
of domestic and international investors in the Government’s ability to maintain stability
and mitigate the crisis.

14.     The accumulated Excess Crude Account (ECA) proved to be an important
buffer for meeting the challenges brought on by the global economic crisis. The
ECA, which had accumulated US$ 19 billion in 2008, provided the Government with
some fiscal space, at least in the short term, for preventing a collapse in non-oil growth or
financial markets. Despite the collapse in revenues, federal government spending was
actually increased in 2009 (11.6 percent of GDP) relative to 2008 (11.3 percent). State
revenues were also augmented by measured distributions from the ECA. In addition, the
federal government moved to adjust the composition of spending by capping recurrent
spending and accelerating capital expenditure so as to use the fiscal stimulus for growth-
enhancing investments.

15.     High uncertainty about the extent and duration of the global crisis, limited
ECA resources, and unfavorable conditions on international markets made policy-
based IDA borrowing a very attractive option for Nigeria in mid-2009. IDA support
offered support for both better macroeconomic management of the crisis, and for
sustaining or accelerating reforms in the financial sector and of public financial
management.

16.       In particular, Government considered the following options:

         ECA withdrawals. In light of widespread negative expectations about the world
          economy in mid-2009, there was broad consensus that withdrawals from the
          ECA needed to be conservative as to preserve additional fiscal buffers should the
          crisis be protracted. The need to share ECA withdrawals across all tiers of
          government also limited the federal government’s control over the use of the
          ECA money once released. In addition, ECA withdrawals were exacerbating
          exchange rate pressures as the bulk of ECA resources were held in foreign
          exchange.

         Domestic financing. Government also was interested to limit its domestic
          borrowing so as not to further crowd out private credit.

         Accessing foreign capital markets. An initially considered launch of a Eurobond,
          which would have accessed foreign savings and avoided exchange pressures and
          crowding out, was abandoned due to the unacceptably high borrowing costs in
          international capital markets that prevailed at the time.

17.     In this constrained context, an IDA Development Policy Credit was very
attractive for Nigeria. It had the added bonus of providing access to World Bank
expertise on policy matters and signaled broad endorsement of the Government’s overall
reform program at a time of generally low investor confidence and considerable political
pressure on the consensus to maintain sound macro policies.




                                             4
Bank analytic work and policy dialogue preceding the crisis

18.     The Bank’s response to the Government’s request for support was enabled by
longstanding analytic and project engagement in Nigeria on the financial sector and
public financial management.

19.     An FSAP was completed in Nigeria as early as 2002. This was followed by work
in 2005/6 advising on the CBN’s bank consolidation program. Starting in 2006, the Bank
fielded a number of missions in support of Nigeria’s Financial System Strategy 2020
(FSS2020), a broad financial sector reform program led by the CBN. Meanwhile the
Bank’s Economic Reform and Governance Project (ERGP) supported public sector
management reforms since 2005. Subsequently a number of sectoral experts visited
Nigeria completing diagnostic reports on subjects relevant to the DPC including; the
banking sector, capital market development, financial reporting standards, improved
public financial management (including a Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability Review (PEMFAR) report), debt markets and debt management
improvements, review of the capital budget implementation as well as public expenditure
reviews and public expenditure and financial accountability assessments (PEFA).

20.     As the global financial crisis deepened in late 2007 and early 2008 the Bank team
became increasingly concerned about imbalances in the Nigerian financial sector. In an
Aide-Memoire dated February 2008 the Bank team highlighted the high concentration of
bank shares on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, poor governance practices at both the NSE
and SEC as well as weaknesses in Nigerian accounting standards and banking
supervision (see Box 1 for an excerpt from the aide-memoire). In subsequent aide-
memoires the Bank team continued to stress the measures that were needed to maintain
the stability of the banking system. In particular the Bank urged the authorities to
undertake a “health check” (special audits to be undertaken according to international
financial reporting standards) of the banking system so as to be able to gauge better the
eventual impact of issues arising from weaknesses in Nigerian reporting and supervisory
practices.

Within this context, the DPC provided an excellent platform to maintain government’s
focus on a program of important, strategic and structural reform elements that had
emerged from solid analysis. The comprehensive base of analytical work and the
accompanying dialogue supporting the process of achieving consensus on key elements
of the DPC program. As a result, the Government and the Bank were able to agree
quickly on the prior actions and indicative outcome indicators for the DPC and the
relevant government authorities quickly moved to implement them.




                                          5
Timeline : Nigeria and the Global Financial Crisis

 140
                  Crude oil (monthly price US$ per barrel)
                                                                   Global Stock Market           Exchange reserves
 120                                                                           Collapse          peak at US$62 bn
                                                                                                                                                AMCON
                                                                                                                                               launched
                                 CBN completes
 100                             banking sector                                                                   CBN intervenes in
                                  consolidation                                                                     Selected banks

                                                                                                       Low Point
  80                                                                                                 Global Stock
                                                                                                         Market
                                                                               NSE Collapse starts

  60




                                                                                                                     DPC approved
  40


                                                                                  IMF dire predictions
                   ERGP starts                                                    for 2009
                                           CBN launches FSS2020
                   Implementation          (World Bank supports)
  20                                                                                                 FMOF makes official
                                                                                                     request for DPC

                CBN banking consolidation underway
   0
       Jan-05




                                  Jan-06




                                                          Jan-07




                                                                                  Jan-08




                                                                                                         Jan-09




                                                                                                                                      Jan-10




                                                                                           6
Box 1: Exert from Bank Aide-Memoire, FSS2020 Diagnostic Mission February 28th 2008.

Concerns about Asset Overvaluation. The mission discussed the current high levels of asset prices,
particularly on the stock exchange but also on the housing market with senior staff at the CBN, FMOF and
PenCom. The Governor, although not convinced that Nigerian P/E ratios are out of line, was keenly
interested in an analysis of the current situation. Factors driving asset prices in Nigeria include: (a)
increasing appetite for new investments arising from fully-funded contributory pension schemes
(implementation of reforms enacted in 2004); (b) repatriation of investment funds and increased foreign
investor appetite for 'Nigeria risk'; (c) the hike in minimum capitalization of banks (2006) and insurance
companies (2007) and the accompanying consolidation process; (d) continuing issuer appetite for IPOs
(mostly by banks); and (e) large appetite for equity investment by local retail investors.

The mission has requested the data required to undertake a flow of funds analysis so as to better identify the
factors behind the possible asset price bubble. However, a cursory comparison of P/E ratios, see attached
figure, demonstrates that asset prices are considerably out of line. P/E ratios on the Nigerian Stock
Exchange have recently increased considerably, particularly in the banking sector, while the returns on bank
assets and equity have fallen following the increase in bank capitalization. This raises concerns as to
whether earning prospects in the banking sector will be able to sustain such elevated P/E ratios.

The mission drew attention to the considerable risks to the confidence in the Nigerian financial system and --
by association -- to implementation of FSS 2020 which would arise in the event of any dramatic fall in
confidence and asset values. To avert such risks the mission recommended that the authorities: (a) closely
monitor banks’ investment in equities both on their own balance sheet and on those of their subsidiaries; (b)
introduce consolidated banking supervision (thereby providing a more accurate assessment of banks'
exposure to the equity market through their as yet unconsolidated brokering subsidiaries) ; (c) reduce fees on
listing and transactions of securities, thereby working towards increasing the supply of investment assets,
and (d) review the governance structure of the Nigerian Stock Exchange.



                                                                                                                                 Emerging Equity Market P/E Ratios as of 1/2008
         60


         55


         50


         45


         40


         35
  P/E Ratio




         30


         25


         20


         15


         10


              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Taiwan, China




              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mauritius
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ecuador




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Philippines




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tunisia
                                                           Lithuania




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Argentina
                                                                                                                                                                                              Colombia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lebanon




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nigeria
                             Croatia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Qatar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Thailand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Indonesia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bahrain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jamaica




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bangladesh
                                                                                                                                       Hungary
                  Slovenia




                                                                                                                                                 Slovak Republic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Namibia
                                                                                                                     Russia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mexico
                                                                                                  Ukraine




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vietnam
                                       Israel




                                                                                                                                                                   Latvia
                                                                                                                                                                            Estonia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Malaysia
                                                                                 Czech Republic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             China




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ghana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jordan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zimbabwe
                                                                                                            Turkey




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Egypt
                                                Bulgaria




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Morocco
                                                                                                                              Poland




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pakistan
                                                                       Romania




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Korea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kenya
                                                                                                                                                                                      Chile




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Oman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Trin. & Tobago




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U.A.E.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Botswana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kuwait




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                South Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Saudi Arabia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              India




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cote d'Ivoire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sri Lanka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Brazil




Source: Emerging Market Database (EMDB) - S&P/IFCG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

21.    The original program development objectives reproduced below are found on
page vii of the program appraisal document (IDA Report No:49162-NG):

“In responding to the on-going global financial crisis the credit was intended to provide
budgetary support to the Federal Government of Nigeria to offset the fiscal impact of the
crisis and support the Government in maintaining its current economic reform path in the
financial sector, fiscal policy, public financial management and governance. The three
program development objectives were: (i) maintaining confidence and stability in the
Financial System; (ii) strengthening the Banking System; and (iii) supporting the
objectives of the 2009 budget, focused on raising Government investment spending to
accelerate non-oil growth”.

1.3 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program


22.      The DPC responded to the Government’s need to finance the 2009 deficit in the
context of the on-going financial crisis. It supported government’s economic reform path
in the financial sector, public financial management and governance areas. More
specifically it supported the following policy areas outlined in
23.      Table 1 (derived from the table on page vii of the project document,).

Table 1: Policy areas, key outcomes and indicators
Policy area                    Outcomes                    Indicators                             Achievements
    (a)    Maintaining confidence and stability of the banking system
1    Measures to stabilize     Banking system                  Use of the extended window           Achieved: the extended
     the banking system        liquidity is restored and        facility declines from NGN            window was shut down in
                               increased confidence             480 billion/day to below NGN          2010.
                               allows normal                    200 billion/day                      Achieved: The exchange
                               functioning of the              Parallel market USD exchange          rate discrepancy disappeared
                               interbank markets for            rate falls to within 10% of the       and the parallel market has
                               Naira and foreign                interbank rate).                      closed.
                               exchange. Government
                               debt markets function
                               more efficiently and
                               become more liquid.
2    Strengthening       the   The banking system              Capital adequacy ratios remain       Achieved: Capital adequacy
     banking system            becomes more sound               above 15 percent through 2009.        remained at 16.8 percent.
                               and transparent.                Improved reporting and               Achieved: IFRS adopted by
                                                                accounting encourages                 2012. Bank equities have
                                                                investment in bank debt &             risen by close to 50 percent
                                                                equity, and better pricing for        from their 2009 lows.
                                                                debt issuances by banks on           Achieved: The CBN has
                                                                international markets.                licensed 3 credit bureaus that
                                                               Banks' ability to manage risk         are now fully functional.
                                                                improved by access to new
                                                                sources of credit information).
     (b)      Sustaining growth through sound macroeconomic policies and budget priorities
3    Supporting                Sustaining growth is            Federal government                   Achieved: Federal
     macroeconomic             assured through sound            expenditure in 2009 remains           Government expenditure
     stability and non oil     macroeconomic policies           within a range of 23-25 percent       was 24 percent when
     growth through sound      and targeted budget              of non-oil GDP (21.2 in 2008,         disbursements from the ECA
     fiscal policies           priorities.                      25.4 in 2007, 21.4 in 2006).          are included.

4    Adjusting expenditure     Sustaining growth is            Execution rate of the federal        Achieved: The execution
     priorities to economic    assured through targeted         capital budget (in percent of         rate of the federal capital



                                                                8
    challenges                budget priorities and           the 2009 budget as finally             budget reached 71.8 percent
                              sound macroeconomic             approved by the National               in 2009.
                              policies.                       Assembly) rises from 53.9
                                                              percent in 2008 to more than
                                                              60 percent in 2009.
5   Raising        non-oil    The federal government         Non-oil revenue collected at          Achieved: Non-oil revenue
    revenue                   captures the fiscal             the federal level (as percentage       rose to 9.8 percent in 2009.
                              benefits from the current       of non-oil GDP) increases from
                              non-oil growth driven           8.6% in 2008 to 9% in 2009.
                              by diversification of the
                              economy.
6   Enhancing                 The accountability and         Month-end financial statements        Achieved late:        Starting
    transparency       and    transparency of MDA             produced by 75 percent of              from zero, 67 percent of
    accountability for use    are enhanced.                   federal government MDAs                MDAs were producing their
    of    public     funds                                    within 7 days.      (Baseline:         month end statements within
    through       effective                                   formerly     no     automated          7 days by the end of the
    oversight arrangement                                     statements).                           implementation period and
                                                                                                     78 percent were doing so by
                                                                                                     December 2010.
7   Enhancing                 The accountability and         65% of Federal Government             Achieved: As of June 2010
    accountability,           effectiveness of public         contracts using national               65 percent of Federal
    effectiveness    and      procurement are                 standard bidding documents.            Government contracts were
    value for money in        enhanced.                      95% of Federal Government              using NSBD and 100
    public procurement                                        contract awards above NGN 75           percent of contract awards
                                                              million are published.                 above NGN 75 million were
                                                                                                     published.




2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

24.     The tables below which are derived from the original program document policy
matrix summarize the prior actions (conditions) completed by government ahead of the
credit approval. The original table can be found on page 61 in Annex 2: Financial Sector
and Public Financial Management Policy Matrix.




                                                              9
      Tranche #          Amount           Expected         Actual Release              Release
                                        Release Date           Date
      Tranche 1       USD 500           October 2009      January 6 2010               Regular
                      million



                                            Tranche 1
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                    Status

 The Program Document listed the following prior actions which had to be taken
 before the board approval :

 Pillar I: Maintaining confidence and stability in the financial system

 A. Measures to stabilize the banking system:

1.        CBN takes action to ensure the liquidity of the banking system by: (a)     Completed
          providing a new extended window facility and expanding the range of
          acceptable collateral for borrowing; (b) reducing the liquidity ratio
          requirement from 40% to 25%; (c) reducing the reserve requirement
          from 4% to 1%; and, (d) reducing the monetary policy rate from 9.75%
          to 8%;

 B.     Strengthening the banking system

2.        CBN adopts a timetable for: (a) banks to implement IFRS-based              Completed
          regulatory reporting as of December 31, 2010; and (b) all banks to
          implement a January 1 to December 31 financial year;

3.        CBN adopts a program for introduction of consolidated risk-based           Completed
          banking supervision; and

4.        CBN places resident inspectors in all banks.                               Completed

 Pillar II: Sustaining growth through sound macroeconomic policies and
 budget priorities.

 A. Supporting macroeconomic stability and non-oil growth through sound              Completed
    fiscal policies. The Recipient has:

5.        Enacted [its 2009] budget using a conservative oil price of US$ 45 per     Completed
          barrel;

6.        Continued to implement a policy under which the Excess Crude               Completed
          Account is credited with excess oil revenue (after compensating for
          shortfalls in revenue);

 B. Adjusting expenditure priorities to economic challenges

7.        Enacted its 2009 budget containing recurrent spending to N1.6273           Completed
          trillion (61.4 percent) and increasing capital spending to N1.0223
          trillion (38.6 percent) of the its budget (excluding statutory transfers
          and debt service);

8.        Released capital expenditure of N187 billion to MDAs by January 31,        Completed



                                                  10
         2009;

9.       Adopted a framework for strategic interventions to address supply            Completed
         constraints and unemployment in the context of the global economic
         crisis;

 C. Raising non oil revenue

      There were no agreed prior actions for this policy area.

 D. Enhancing transparency and accountability for use of public funds through         Completed
    effective oversight arrangements.

10.      Implemented the interim Accounting Transaction Recording and                 Completed
         Reporting System;

11.      Adopted the Cash Management Policy;                                          Completed

 E. Enhancing Accountability, Effectiveness and value for money in Public
    Procurement.

12.      Enacted and made operational the Public Procurement Act and                  Completed
         implementation regulations consistent with international best practices,
         and made the regulations available to the public; and

13.      Published on a bi-monthly basis public procurement contract awards in        Completed
         the National Procurement Journal and on the BPP website.


Section D of the legal agreement stipulates that the recipient shall also conduct
an independent audit :


The Recipient shall:

1.       Have the account and the recording of the amounts of the Financing           Completed
         into the Recipient’s budget management system [referred to in Part C of
         this Section] audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
         Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
         acceptable to the Association;

2.       Furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later   Completed
         than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such
         audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in
         such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and

3.       Furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said        Completed
         account and recording of the amounts of the Financing into the budget
         management system, and their audit, as the Association shall
         reasonably request.




                                                   11
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

25.       Two major factors impacted the implementation of the DPC:

         Banking sector crisis management and
         The changing political context.


Banking sector crisis management

26.     Signs of looming imbalances in the banking sector had been identified by the
Bank team as early as February 2008 and discussed in confidence with the authorities and
later with the Bank’s Board. However, the exact vulnerability of the banking system was
unknown at the time of credit approval as the management of CBN prior to June 2009 did
not wish to engage in special inspections recommended by the Bank team since 2008. In
the absence of a firm idea of the size of the problems in the banking sector, the agenda
supported by the credit focused at the time of approval on a medium-term reform agenda
so as to further enhance transparency of the banking system and create better systems and
foundations for supervision over time, keeping in mind the possibility that a banking
crisis might emerge. The appointment of a new governor in June 2009 with an activist
stance and clear mandate for reform then allowed an implementation of aggressive short-
term measures to identify looming problems and tackle any potential crisis before it could
set in.

27.     Shortly after Governor Sanusi was appointed he led the CBN in a program of
special inspections of Nigerian banks in July and August 2009, effectively following the
Bank’s recommendation made a year earlier. The first phase of the inspections program
identified five banks with severe capital deficiencies and liquidity problems. A second
round of audits identified a further four banks that also had solvency problems. The
special inspections confirmed that all nine had misrepresented their financial situation in
reports to the CBN by concealing and systematically under-provisioning large volumes of
nonperforming and classified loans.

28.     Based on the findings of the special inspections, the CBN intervened in the
distressed banks by: (i) removing the executive directors and the managing director of
each bank and replacing them with individuals selected by the CBN; and, (ii) injecting
financial support in the form of subordinated debt in the order of US$4 billion
(approximately 2 percent of GDP). The speed and efficacy of these measures averted a
run on the banks and successfully bolstered confidence in the banking system.

29.     The emerging findings of the special inspection program did not divert the
attention from the longer-term reform agenda. However, they added short-term
responsibilities to the CBN in addition to the longer-term objectives and indicators
targeted in the credit. Without the determined, and successful, resolution of the short-
term measures, in dialogue with the Bank’s team, the longer-term objectives of the Credit
would have been in jeopardy. The findings of the special inspections changed the context



                                           12
of the dialogue and supervision by the Bank’s financial sector team. However, the team
continued to support the medium-term initiatives to strengthen accounting, supervision
and reporting as these were vital to prevent a future repeat of the crisis.

The changing political context

30.    Shortly after the DPC was approved, President Yar’adua’s health began to
weaken culminating in his being hospitalized while on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia in
November 2009. A dangerous political vacuum emerged that was not filled for several
months until Vice-President Jonathan took over as acting President and was subsequently
sworn in after the President’s death on May 5th 2010. The period between August 2009
and May 2010 thus marked an intense hiatus in Nigerian politics. In addition, the need for
President Jonathan to consolidate power and his subsequent decision to run for a full-
term of office also changed the political dynamics and weakened the resolve to maintain
substantial fiscal buffers. The changing political context had two consequences:

      The ratification of the DPC by the national assembly became politicized and was
       subject to major delay. This was the first policy-based operation in almost thirty
       years, and many Nigerians remembered the austerity measures that accompanied
       the structural adjustment programs in the 1970s. Many were also skeptical of
       government borrowing abroad for budgetary expenditure, fearing that the
       resources would have limited development results. These sentiments resulted in
       the need for a lengthy process of consensus building with the members of the
       national assembly following credit approval.

      The resolve to limit withdrawals from the ECA to times of crisis and maintain a
       conservative budget position during a period of higher oil prices weakened.
       During 2010, as part of President Jonathan’s power consolidation and in the
       context of continuing high federal expenditure, the remaining balance of the ECA
       was distributed to states and the ECA was depleted by end-2010. These
       developments are already being reversed with more than US$ 5 billion
       accumulated in the ECA and a conservative oil price budgeted for 2011. In
       addition, the government has established a new Sovereign Wealth Fund that
       would be more strongly protected from ad hoc withdrawals through a stronger
       legal foundation.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

31.     The FMOF was tasked with leading M & E on the public financial management
aspects of the credit such as the budget implementation and spending. M & E on the
major financial sector reforms supported by the DPC were overseen by the Central Bank
of Nigeria as the CBN is responsible for setting the parameters for liquidity, financial
reporting standards and supervisory practices such as risk-based supervision and
consolidated financial reporting. An assessment of this process is provided in section 3.




                                           13
32.     Design: Monitoring the DPC was made easier by the existence of the solid and
robust M&E framework and results matrix that accompanied the operation. The results
framework had been discussed broadly at both the political and technical levels of
government and was fully accepted by government. The matrix included specific and
quantifiable targets to which all stakeholders had committed (see above). The
macroeconomic targets included items fully within the control of the Federal Government
such as government expenditure, execution of the capital budget, the use of standard
bidding contracts and the production of financial statements. Measures to stabilize the
banking system focused on normalizing the functioning of the foreign exchange rate and
interbank money market, maintaining capital adequacy in the banks and improving
transparency in financial reporting.

33.     Implementation: Monitoring the DPC program took the form of continuous
dialogue with Government counterparts to assess progress and address eventual
bottlenecks. Given the presence of task team members in the field, monitoring was done
on a relatively continuous basis. It was supported by complementary investment projects
such as the Economic Reform and Governance Project (ERGP) and ongoing technical
assistance to the financial sector. The Bank team monitored progress against the
baselines agreed during the preparation of the credit. (The results are reported in section
3.2). Collaboration with other donors also helped to underpin the policy dialogue and
build broader support for Government’s program.

34.    Utilization: By its nature a DPC provides budget support to the ministry of
finance. Therefore the proceeds of the credit cannot be tracked. However, in requesting
the budgetary support, government indicated to the Bank that the additional resources
would be used to finance “shovel-ready” infrastructure projects. Government’s intention
was to boost consumption in a counter-cyclical manner, create temporary employment
and reduce the infrastructure deficit.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

35.    The Federal level DPC was a one-off budgetary support operation that was
provided to Nigeria within the context of the global financial crisis. It provided
government with support to maintain momentum on financial sector and public
management reforms. It also provided government with additional financing to protect
and supporting spending on infrastructure and vulnerable groups whose livelihoods
would have otherwise been jeopardized. A follow-on tranche was not expected.

36.     At the time of the DPC preparation, Government expressed interest in a
complementary technical assistance operation to facilitate implementation of the broader
financial sector reform agenda that the DPC supported. Discussions quickly crystallized
into a potential technical assistance project that could support Nigeria’s reforms to
strengthen the key financial sector regulatory agencies through FSS2020. The Bank team
used its convening power to bring other donor agencies including DFID, GTZ, AfDB and
the IMF together around a common platform. The package of technical assistance that is
financed by grants and highly concessional credits would be attractive to government.



                                           14
The Bank and other donor teams stand ready to provide such assistance through a project
vehicle.

37.     The technical work on the financial sector has been summarized in the Bank’s
flagship publication “Achieving FSS2020: Making Finance Work for Nigeria”. The
follow-on dialogue on the non-oil growth pillar is embodied in the Bank’s recent
publication, “Putting Nigeria to Work” and the proposed Growth and Employment
Project (GEMS) which will be presented to the Bank’s Board on March 17, 2011.

38.    The federal policy platform has also established new interest in developing state-
level DPOs so as to accelerate reform processes in Nigeria’s states. The acceptability of
policy dialogue with the federal government has raised the profile of the instrument, and
overcome some of the skepticism of the “structural adjustment” era. The first sub-
national DPO (for Lagos State) is slated for Board consideration on March 17, 2011.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

39.    The reforms supported by the DPC were relevant to Nigeria’s development
challenges and closely linked to the country assistance strategy.

Relevance to current country and global priorities

40.     Challenges to Nigerian development priorities: The DPC was designed to
mitigate the impact of the international financial crisis on Nigeria’s fiscal and financial
sectors. As described above, Nigeria's economy was affected by the global financial
crisis primarily through falling commodity prices, reduced net capital inflows (in
particular foreign direct investment (FDI) and remittances), and the drying up of trade
finance and international lines of credit. The fall in oil prices from a peak of $147/bbl in
July 2008 to around $40/bbl a year later presented macroeconomic challenges for Nigeria
as Federal Government revenues declined by 48 percent in a single year.

41.     Although oil revenues were managed carefully and government built reserves in
the ECA during 2008, falling oil prices, production problems, and the deteriorating fiscal
outlook reduced international confidence and triggered a reduction in Nigeria's sovereign
credit rating outlook in 2009.

42.    The large portfolio outflows beginning in early 2008 triggered a decline in the
stock market which further accelerated in the wake of the crisis. The smaller oil revenue
inflows, weakening confidence, and lower net capital inflows put increasing pressure on
the Naira. In combination, these factors led to liquidity pressures within the banking
system in late 2008 and the first months of 2009.




                                               15
43.     Concerns about the banking system started to be voiced with the slowdown in
growth and falling stock market prices. Unsustainable credit growth in 2007 and 2008
(see Figure 1) presented a challenge to the banks in managing their credit risks and to the
authorities in ensuring adequate reporting
and disclosure by the banks. Many observers        Figure 1: Growth in Credit 2006-2010
were concerned about the financial sector.
On May 18th 2008, in a review of Nigeria’s          140%   Growth in (nominal) credit to the private
banking system, JP Morgan noted, “Growth                                sector (y/y)
has moved ahead of the risk capabilities of         120%
both banks and the regulator”.
                                                         100%
44.    Addressing the causes of the problem                                                            Nigeria

in the financial sector:      The issues of
confidence and stability in Nigeria’s financial           80%


system resulted from;
                                                          60%


    (i)     Weak risk management controls
            and     poor    supervision    in             40%

            conjunction with rapid expansion
            of the banks’ lending portfolios              20%

            following the introduction of the                          Kenya
                                                                                             South
                                                                                             Africa
            new high level minimum capital                0%
                                                                2006




                                                                               2007




                                                                                      2008




                                                                                                      2009




                                                                                                                 2010
            in July 2006.

    (ii)    Deteriorating asset quality due to
            margin lending (lending to finance purchase of bank shares), a concentration
            of lending in the downstream oil and gas sector (that became non-performing
            following the fall in oil prices), and insider lending.

    (iii)   Poor accounting and disclosure practices, lack of consolidated reporting and
            use of different financial year-end dates across the sector.

45.     In response, the CBN introduced interest rate controls (requiring banks to cap
their interest rates on deposits) and restrictions on foreign exchange. Interest rate
controls were designed to prevent price competition for scarce deposits while foreign
exchange controls artificially propped up the Naira. Both measures would have been
extremely damaging to the real sector in the long term and their removal was supported
by DPC indicators.

46.     Reform solutions for the financial sector contained in the DPC: As the data
reported by the banks to the CBN were unreliable (see box 1 above), it was not possible
to ascertain the true size of the problem in the commercial banking sector. As a result the
Bank team recommended a program of special inspections followed by measures
required to strengthen governance in the sector. As the authorities were fearful that
including the special program of inspections in the policy matrix might trigger a panic,
the Bank team decided to focus the DPC reform program on required, medium-term



                                               16
policy actions related to bank accounting, reporting and supervision whilst pursuing the
dialogue on the special inspections program in parallel and out of the lime light.

47.      The operation brought a coherence and focus to this broader objective by
prioritizing a number of key strategic indicators (see below) that were vital to improving
the stability and strength of the banking system such as adopting international financial
reporting standards and moving towards consolidated risk-based supervision. It also
offered a platform for dialogue from which to persuade the authorities to remove
restrictions to access the foreign exchange market. The latter began to be phased out at
the time of the approval of the DPC, and then were completely phased out after its
approval.

48.     Mitigating the macroeconomic impact of oil price decline: In terms of
macroeconomic stability and budget priorities, the DPC supported the government by
providing external financial resources and through concrete policy measures to improve
budgeting and public financial management. Despite the sharp decline in oil revenues,
government decided to maintain expenditures to boost counter-cyclical demand resulting
in a widening fiscal deficit that, if funded domestically, threatened to crowd out lending
to the private sector (see Figure 2).

49.    Faced with this situation, the DPC focused on the most important aspects of
public financial management and budget execution, ensuring that Government raised
                                                                 sufficient revenues (non oil
Figure 2: Fiscal expansion: real sector threat                   revenues were raised from 8.6%
  4000
                                                                 of non-oil GDP to 9.8 percent),
                                                                 limited recurrent spending but
  3500                                                     3,557 increased execution of the capital
                                                                 budget (from 53.9 percent in 2008
  3000
                                        2,625
                                                                 to 71.8 percent in 2009), and
                                                                 advanced the reform agenda for
                           2,343
  2500                                                           more transparent systems of
                                                                 financial     management          and
  2000        1,669                                 3228.03      procurement        (all       Federal
                                     2320.31                     Government contracts above N75
  1500
                                                                 million are published). In the
  1000
                     2169.63                                     event,    the    fiscal     stimulus,
         1753.25                                          883    combined   with import    substitution
   500                     544            490
                                                                 brought on from a 20 percent
              258                                                depreciation    of      the     Naira,
     0                                                           maintained demand for domestic
          2006          2007          2008         Prel. 2009    goods and services at a level that
                    Domestic Debt Outstanding                    allowed Nigeria to avoid the sharp
                    Federal Government Expenditure               growth declines or recessions that
                    Non- oil revenue                             hit a number of other oil-
                    Oil Revenue
                                                                 dependent countries in 2009.
                                                                 Government also released several



                                                 17
tranches from the ECA throughout 2009 to support counter-cyclical spending and GDP
expanded by an estimated 7 percent during the year.

50.      The DPC provided a strong platform of dialogue on macroeconomic policies in a
context in which the IMF dialogue was largely absent. The authorities regarded the DPC
as being a useful tool that would provide some discipline and support for macroeconomic
stability and reform policies that had become unpopular at the time of the global financial
crisis. The DPC provided a platform for dialogue to voice – with the necessary discretion
– concerns on key policies necessary to sustain macroeconomic sustainability while
promoting non-oil growth. The DPC offered financing necessary to sustain budget
implementation while lessening the impact of crowding out on domestic investment.


Relevance to the Bank’s Assistance Strategy

Table 2 : Country Assistance Strategy and DPC Objectives
         The Bank’s Assistance Strategy                     DPC Objectives
   (i)    Improving governance;                   (i)   Maintaining confidence and stability
                                                        of the financial system;
   (ii) Maintaining non-oil growth; and           (ii) Strengthening the banking system;
                                                        and
   (iii) Promoting human development.             (iii) Supporting Government’s budget
                                                        objectives     focused   on raising
                                                        investment spending to accelerate
                                                        non-oil growth.


51.     The Bank’s assistance strategy in Nigeria is contained in the Country Partnership
Strategy II which covers FY10-13. To achieve better governance, the CPS focuses on
how the Bank Group and partners can help the government strengthen its own systems
over the long term - going beyond fiduciary controls over donor funds, given that donors
provide a very small share of Nigeria’s public resources. (Nigeria received US$2.042
billion in aid in 2008 equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP). Governance is both a core and a
cross-cutting theme of CPS II.

The DPC specifically supported the first two priorities of the CPS. It supported improved
governance in public financial management and strengthening the banking sector through
strengthened financial reporting and banking supervision. It supported non-oil growth by
promoting capital spending and helping avoid crowding out of the private sector by
excessive domestic borrowing.
52.     The CPS explicitly seeks to provide support to the government to deal with the
impact of the global financial crisis (CPS II p2). Within the governance theme the CPS
highlighted the following areas (CPS p20) that are all highly relevant to the DPC: (i)
transparency and accountability in the use of resources; (ii) governance reforms in high
priority sectors to promote diversification and non-oil growth; and (iii) capacity
development in the public sector.


                                           18
53.    The CPS highlighted governance to promote more effective use of public
resources. It called for the following support in the key sectors supported by the DPC
(CPS Box 7 p22):

         Federal level: In the area of public financial management, a Fiscal Responsibility
          law and new procurement law were passed in 2007 at the federal level and
          similar laws are being adopted in all states. The Accounting Transactional
          Recording and Reporting System was rolled out, and a computerized federal
          payroll management system was launched. Preparations for the adoption of the
          Government Integrated Financial Management Information System are being
          made and an E-payment system introduced in 2008 promises to increase
          transparency and accountability further.

         Financial Sector: A Banking sector review recommended that Nigeria adopt
          International Financial Reporting Standards to improve accounting and auditing
          standards. The Bank also recommended that Nigeria move to a consolidated
          financial year end which would improve transparency and accountability and the
          Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) announced in April 2009 that it would do so.

54.    The two areas, Federal level public financial management and financial sector,
outlined in the CPS and reproduced above formed the heart of the DPC reform program.

55.       In summary:

         The key structural measures included in the Bank’s policy matrix both in regard
          to the budget and public financial management objectives and the financial sector
          were relevant to Nigeria’s needs, given the situation of fiscal crisis and the
          banking sector weaknesses at the time the DPC was approved by the Board.

         The DPC proposed solutions to focus on improved public financial management
          and prudent macroeconomic policy as well as improving financial sector
          accounting, supervision and reporting. All were relevant to Nigeria’s development
          challenges.

         The DPC was well aligned to the first two pillars of the CPS II focused on
          improving governance and maintaining non-oil growth. It also supported the
          strategy’s specific objective of providing support to Nigeria to weather the
          international financial crisis.

         The DPC policy matrix built very squarely on CPS II priorities for improved
          public financial management at the Federal level including improved procurement,
          automated reporting and better transparency and accountability. Similarly in the
          financial sector the DPC supported a move to IFRS, a consolidated financial year-
          end as well as improved transparency and accountability. All initiatives that were
          already explicitly included in the CPS.


                                             19
          Most importantly the response to the Government’s request for DPC support
           helped galvanize Government commitment to a number of key policies the
           reversal of which would have posed major risks to Nigeria’s development path.
           Continued exchange rate restrictions, a full blown banking crisis in the absence of
           the intervention following the special inspection program, weakening
           commitment to improved transparency, and lower growth as a consequence of
           falling capital spending would have made for a powerful combined threat to the
           CPS’s core objectives.




3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

56.     The overall achievement of the DPC Program Development Objectives was
satisfactory.

57.     Key outcomes of the supported program were captured in the original policy
matrix contained in Annex 2 of the program document and reproduced in Table 2 below.2
These outcomes were intended to measure progress against a longer-term reform agenda
in the areas of financial sector oversight and public financial management.

58.    All the prior actions were met before Board presentation. All the targeted
outcomes have now been achieved, although the requirement to have month-end financial
statements produced by 75% of MDAs was not achieved by the end of the
implementation period (see below).

59.    The section of achievements of the PDO follows the policy matrix. It presents: (i)
the policy area, (ii) the December 2009 outcome, (iii) the target indicator and (iv)
whether it was achieved. Each table is followed by a broader discussion that explains
how these achievements were secured, the context around them and provides additional,
supporting information on indicators that were not selected as DPC outcomes but are
nonetheless important in judging progress towards the stated DPC objectives.




2
    For ease of reference, the entire Policy Matrix has been reproduced (unedited).




                                                      20
     Table 2 : Financial Sector and Public Financial Management Policy Matrix

Policy area            Prior Actions taken before Board                         Outcomes                    Indicative Medium-Term Follow On
                                     Approval
                                      2008/09                                December 2009                                   2009/10
                          PILLAR I: MAINTAINING CONFIDENCE AND STABILITY IN THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A. Measures to      CBN takes action to ensure the liquidity Banking system liquidity is restored        Regulatory liquidity requirements adjusted
stabilize the        of the banking system by: (a) providing    and increased confidence allows            in line with stabilization of system
banking system       a new extended window facility and         normal functioning of the interbank        liquidity.
                     expanding the range of acceptable          markets for Naira and foreign             Interbank foreign exchange market reopens.
                     collateral for borrowing; (b) reducing     exchange. Government debt markets         CBN temporary guidance on interest rates
                     the liquidity ratio requirement from       function more efficiently and become       withdrawn.
                     40% to 25%; (c) reducing the reserve       more liquid.                              Consolidate debt portfolio management
                     requirement from 4% to 1%; and (d)          (Use of the extended window facility      strategies aiming at benchmark building
                     reducing the monetary policy rate from     declines from NGN 480 billion/day to       with the combined use of (i) re-opening
                     9.75% to 8%.                               below NGN 200 billion/day; parallel        procedures; (ii) buybacks and exchanges;
                    DMO adopts a comprehensive three-year      market USD exchange rate falls to within   (iii) earmarking benchmark issues for
                     action plan aimed at enhancing efficiency  10% of the interbank rate).                PDMMs. Issue repos, securities lending and
                     and liquidity in government debt market.                                              short selling regulations.
                    NDIC makes available liquidity facilities                                            Harmonize C&S platforms for T-Bills and
                     for banks with full regulatory compliance.                                            T-Bonds

B. Strengthening    CBN adopts a timetable for banks to            The banking system becomes more               Analysis conducted to assess the impact of
the banking          submit IFRS-based regulatory reports           sound and transparent. (Capital                IFRS transition on the banking system.
system               as of December 31st, 2010.                     adequacy ratios remain above 15 percent       NASB issues IFRS-compliant SAS for
                    CBN initiates the procurement process for      through 2009. Improved reporting and           banks.
                     a consulting firm to provide support for       accounting encourages investment in           IFRS training and transition assistance
                     the IFRS transition.                           bank debt & equity, and better pricing for     program implemented.
                    CBN adopts a timetable for all banks to        debt issuances by banks on international      Amend banking regulations, reporting
                     implement a 1st January – 31st                 markets. Banks’ ability to manage risk         requirements, and supervisory procedures
                     December financial year.                       improved by access new sources of credit       to conform to International Financial
                    CBN adopts of a program for                    information).                                  Reporting Standards
                     introduction of consolidated risk-based                                                      CBN adopts a framework for risk-based
                     banking supervision.                                                                          supervision.
                    CBN places resident inspectors in all banks.                                                 Issue tender for development of a
                    CBN implements the electronic financial                                                       computerized movable collateral registry.




                                                                                   21
Policy area                Prior Actions taken before Board                          Outcomes                         Indicative Medium-Term Follow On
                                        Approval
                                         2008/09                                  December 2009                                       2009/10
                         analysis and surveillance system (eFASS)                                                  First licenses for private credit registries
                         program to improve statutory compliance                                                    issued.
                         and anti-money laundering programs.
                       CBN regulations on private credit registries
                         implemented.

               PILLAR II: SUSTAINING GROWTH THROUGH SOUND MACROECONOMIC POLICIES AND BUDGET PRIORITIES
A. Supporting        Enact a budget using a conservative oil Federal government expenditure in      The government maintains the oil-price
macroeconomic         price of US$ 45 per barrel              2009 remain within a range of 23-25     based fiscal rule
stability and        Continue to implement a policy under    percent of non-oil GDP (21.2 in 2008,  Fiscal Responsibility Commission issue
non-oil growth        which the Excess Crude Account is       25.4 in 2007, 21.4 in 2006)             report to the National Assembly including
through sound         credited with excess oil revenue after                                          all cases of contravention investigated
fiscal policies       compensating for shortfalls in revenue                                          during the year
                     Compose the Fiscal Responsibility
                      Commission to monitor and ensure the
                      provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility
                      Act, 2007

B. Adjusting           Enact its 2009 budget containing               Execution rate of the federal capital       The Government continues to implement
expenditure             recurrent spending to N1.6273 trillion         budget (in percent of the 2009 budget)       Medium Term Sector Strategies for key
priorities to           (61.4 percent) and increasing capital          rises from [53.6] percent in 2008 to         sectors to form the basis for budgeting and
economic                spending to N1.0223 trillion (38.6             more than [60] percent in 2009               investment planning
challenges              percent) of its budget (excluding
                        statutory transfer and debt service)3
                       Release capital expenditure of N187
                        billion to MDAs by January 2009.
                        Appoint a Presidential Steering Committee
                        on the Global Economic Crisis to manage


     3
       In 2008 (after the budget was amended late in the year), figures were 62.8 for recurrent spending and 37.2 for capital spending. Because of the late enactment
     of additional capital spending in a supplement in November, execution rates of the additional allocations were generally low.




                                                                                    22
Policy area               Prior Actions taken before Board                             Outcomes                            Indicative Medium-Term Follow On
                                         Approval
                                          2008/09                                   December 2009                                         2009/10
                        the government’s crisis response
                       [Approve strategic interventions to
                        address supply constraints and
                        unemployment in the context of the
                        global economic meltdown]
C. Raising non-        Initiate audit of processes in revenue        Non-oil revenue collected at the federal level
                                                                      4
                                                                                                                       Complete audits of revenue collecting agencies
oil revenue             collecting agencies                             (as percentage of non-oil GDP) increases       and begin implementation of
                                                                      from 8.6% in 2008 to 9% in 2009
                       Create customs reform committee                                                                recommendations.
D. Enhancing           Implement interim Accounting                  Month-end financial statements                    Implement the Government Integrated
transparency            Transaction Recording and Reporting           produced by 75 percent of federal                   Financial Management Information System
and                     System (ATRRS)                                government MDA’s within 7 days.                     (GIFMIS) in the Office of the Accountant
accountability         Adopt Cash Management Policy                  (Baseline: formerly no automated                    General and Budget Office of the
for use of public                                                     statements)                                         Federation
funds through                                                                                                           Publish in-year budget outturn reports
effective                                                                                                                 within 30 days of end of each quarter (FRA
oversight                                                                                                                 50)
arrangements                                                                                                            Performance/Value for Money (VFM) audit
                                                                                                                          conducted for key priority MDAs
                                                                                                                        Minister of Finance to publish within 30
                                                                                                                          days of enactment of the Appropriation Act
                                                                                                                          a disbursement schedule in line with
                                                                                                                          Annual Cash Plan prepared by the
                                                                                                                          Accountant General (FRA 25-27)
E. Enhancing         Public Procurement Act and                      65% of Federal Government contracts               Continue ensuring that Public
Accountability,       Implementation Regulations consistent with      using national standard bidding                      Procurement Act and Implementation
Effectiveness         international best practices, operational and   documents.                                           Regulations are fully implemented and
and value for         made available to the public                    95% of Federal Government contract                   applied by MDAs.
money in Public      Contract awards published in National           awards above N 75 million are


     4
       This includes import and excises duties, companies’ income tax, value added tax, federal government independent revenue. The total non-oil revenue collected
     at federal level was about N1.3trillion in 2008 (IMF estimates).




                                                                                      23
Policy area     Prior Actions taken before Board                        Outcomes      Indicative Medium-Term Follow On
                            Approval
                             2008/09                                  December 2009               2009/10
Procurement   Procurement Journal (bi-monthly) and BPP   published.
              website.




                                                                       24
Pillar I Maintaining confidence and stability in the financial system

Policy Area        Outcome                            Target                      Achieved (Yes)
A. Measures to     Banking system liquidity is        Use of the extended         The extended discount
   stabilize the   restored and increased             window facility declines    window has been
   banking         confidence allows normal           from N480 bn/day to         closed.
   system          functioning of the interbank       below N200 bn / day;
                   markets for Naira and foreign      parallel market USD         Exchange rate controls
                   exchange. Government debt          exchange rate falls         have been removed and
                   markets function more              within 10 percent of the    the parallel market has
                   efficiently and become more        interbank rate.             disappeared.
                   liquid.

60.     The DPC measures to stabilize the banking system contributed to
maintaining confidence in and the stability of the financial system. Prior to the crisis,
the CBN provided banks with liquidity
support through the extended discount                         Figure 3
window 5 . Due to the turbulence in the 25
banking sector and the perceived risk of
lending to other banks, interbank rates spiked
in 2009 (see Figure 3). Once the special audit
program revealed that banks had serious 20
liquidity problems, the CBN guaranteed all
bank deposits on the inter-bank market. The
CBN also stepped in to provide direct 15
liquidity to the banking system in the form of
convertible loans to the nine troubled banks.
Once the liquidity had been fully restored,
                                               10
the CBN closed the extended window facility.
These measures paved the way for
normalization of the interbank market (see
Figure 3).                                      5



61.      Similarly in early 2009, the CBN
restricted bank’s access to foreign exchange      0
and a sizeable spread between the official          2007       2008        2009        2010

and parallel market rates emerged peaking at
about 25 percent in mid 2009. When CBN removed the temporary restrictions on the
foreign exchange market and reintroduced the Wholesale Dutch Auction System in July
2009 the parallel market exchange rate fell quickly to within 2% of the interbank rate and
then disappeared completely.



5
 A discount window is the process by which a central bank provides credit to financial institutions. The
window helps reduce liquidity problems for banks and helps maintain the stability of financial markets.



                                                    25
Policy Area           Outcome                            Target                    Achieved (Yes)
B. Strengthening      The banking system becomes         Capital adequacy ratios   Capital Adequacy Ratio
   the banking        more sound and transparent.        remain above 15           was 16.8 at end 2009.
   system             Improved reporting and             percent through 2009.
                      accounting encourages
                      investment in bank debt &
                      equity, and better pricing for
                      debt issuances by banks on
                      international markets. Banks’
                      ability to manage risk improved
                      by access new sources of credit
                      information

62.     The banking system becomes more sound and transparent. Among the key
outcome indicators was that the capital adequacy ratio would remain above 15 percent
and that improved reporting and accounting would encourage investment in bank debt
and equity, allowing better pricing for debt issuances by banks on the international
markets. Table 3 below indicates that by end 2009 the CAR remained above 15 percent
as targeted.

Table 3: Capital Adequacy
 Year       Regulatory Total      Regulatory Tier 1     Total Equity / Total
            Capital Ratio         Ratio                 Assets
   2005                   28.34               27.61                     18.15
   2006                   26.50               25.50                     16.24
   2007                   23.71               22.44                     13.44
   2008                   28.32               27.25                     19.23
   2009                   23.64               23.46                     16.80
Source: Fitch Ratings 2010.

63.     Following the intervention by the CBN, the Nigerian banking sector is now
bifurcated. The CBN focused emergency stabilization efforts on the intervened banks
which are no longer formally part of the operative banking system. The CBN is
reportedly actively looking for new investors for the intervened banks and encouraging
the better placed Nigerian banks to take-over their troubled counterparts. The remainder
of the banks are making progress in improving risk management, accounting and
disclosure as well as cleaning up their loan portfolios.

64.     The banking sector was further strengthened by a number of CBN led
reforms highlighted in the policy matrix. Following the approval of the DPC, the CBN
started on a program of reform measures designed to make the banking system more
sound and transparent including:

         Adopting a timetable to move to IFRS: This was important due to the weaknesses
          inherent in Nigerian Accounting Standards. The decision to adopt IFRS took
          place following intense debate about whether to adopt or adapt IFRS. Some
          stakeholders pushed for a version of IFRS adapted to the Nigerian situation and
          initially this view gained traction. However, a workshop convened by the Bank


                                                    26
         and chaired by the Nigerian Accounting Standards Board resulted in a decision to
         adopt IFRS by 2012. When fully implemented the introduction of IFRS is likely
         to provide a considerable boost to confidence – especially among foreign
         investors – as to the seriousness of the Nigerian reform process. The move to
         IFRS was given further impetus on July 28th 2010 when the Federal Executive
         Council approved January 1, 2012 as the effective date for convergence of
         Nigerian accounting standards with IFRS. The Council directed the Nigerian
         Accounting Standards Board (NASB), under the supervision of the Federal
         Ministry of Commerce and Industry to take further necessary actions to
         implement the Council’s decision. A program of training on IFRS has been
         developed under the auspices of FSS2020 involving the NASB, CBN, SEC and
         other relevant entities.

        Strengthening consolidated risk-based banking supervision: As of end 2010, the
         CBN introduced a single year end for all financial institutions. This effectively
         ended the practice of cross transfers between wholly-owned subsidiaries to
         artificially bolster balance sheets. The CBN has also mandated consolidated
         supervision by end of 2011 to end the practice of off-balance sheet financing for
         questionable transactions.

65.     Following the CBN program of special inspections, it became apparent that much
of the margin lending was financed through wholly-owned brokerages and finance
houses and included in the “other” category of banks portfolios. As Figure 4 below
indicates, the CBN’s policy intervention is starting to have an impact in terms of
redirecting bank credit from margin loans to the real sector.


Figure 4: Squeezing margin loans out of the system



                                                              Others

                                                              Manuf acturing

                                                              Commerce

                                             Exports

                                        Government

                                         Agriculture

                                      Public Utilities

                          Real Estate & Construction

                         Transport & Communications

                                Finance & Insurance

                                      Solid Minerals


 -15%             -10%         -5%                       0%                    5%

   Source: CBN 2010




                                                                 27
66.     The IMF reports that “Substantial progress is being made in strengthening
banking supervision. The on-site examinations are under way for all non-intervened
banks. Lax enforcement was one of the key factors in the banking crisis, so it will be
important to rigorously follow up with any corrective measures that may be necessary.
The CBN has already started implementation of risk-based supervision on a pilot basis,
and full implementation will enhance the CBN’s capacity for early-detection of stress.”6
The Nigerian authorities also established an Asset Management Company to remove
toxic assets from the bank’s balance sheets (see Box 2).


Box 2: AMCON: Asset Management Company of Nigeria

Nigeria has established AMCON to remove toxic assets from the banking system and
recapitalize the insolvent banks. Although the need for an AMC was not foreseen at the
time of DPC preparation, it was clear by the end of 2009 that such a vehicle could play a
useful role in removing toxic assets from the system. The CBN moved very quickly to
create AMCON. The AMCON Act was signed on July 26th, 2010. Through this process
the CBN seeks to provide capital assistance to banks so as: (a) to stabilize the banking
system by recapitalizing and changing the governance of distressed institutions; (b) to
improve the governance of the sector by securing the recapitalization of distressed banks
by reputable strategic investors; and, (c) to provide some compensation to small
investors who had purchased the distressed bank shares at inflated prices. The bank
restructuring process being led by the CBN and AMCON is still under way (the first
asset purchases were completed in January 2011) and is expected to contribute to
significant progress in achieving these objectives.




Pillar II       Sustaining growth through sound macroeconomic policies and budget
priorities

Policy Area            Outcome                               Target                   Achieved (Yes)
A. Supporting          Federal government                    Federal Government       19.8% from budget +
   macro-              expenditure remains within set        expenditure in 2009      4.3% from ECA =
   economic            range                                 remains within a range   24.1 percent.
   stability and                                             of 23-25 percent of
   non-oil                                                   non-oil GDP.
   growth
   through sound
   fiscal policies




6
    IMF Staff Report for the 2010 Article IV consultations. (Washington, D.C. February 2011.)




                                                        28
67.     Despite lower oil revenues in 2009, the federal government preserved
expenditure at a level to support critical investments and raised non-oil revenue. In
the aftermath of the crisis, the Nigerian government managed to maintain budgeted
expenditures at 19.8 per cent of non-oil GDP. This was less than the range of 23-25
percent that was targeted in the policy matrix. However, additional expenditures were
made from the excess crude account that when added to the budget expenditure put
spending in the middle of the targeted range.

68.     Releases from the excess crude account (ECA) helped support infrastructure
and counter-cyclical spending. In January 2009 the ECA had a balance of $19 billion.
In February the Federation Account Allocation Committee recommended the sharing of
$2 billion with the states. In April, the National Economic Council (NEC) approved $5.3
billion to fund the President’s power intervention. Between June and August 2009,
another $3 billion was shared with state governments. Towards the end of 2009, Federal
Government injected $2 billion into the economy as an economic stimulus. The US$12.3
billion released from the ECA amounts to an additional 4.3 percent of non-oil GDP.

Policy Area        Outcome                              Target             Achieved (Yes)
B. Adjusting       Execution rate of the Federal        Above 60 percent   72 percent
   expenditure     capital budget rises.
   priorities to
   economic
   challenges


69.     Nigeria’s capital budget has traditionally been under-spent. This is a contributing
factor to the lack of public infrastructure and poor maintenance of public facilities. It
also leads for calls to extend the budget year (which follows the calendar year) into
March or April of the following year which in turn makes planning, budgeting and annual
comparisons difficult to follow.

70.    In 2009, government took key steps to improve the execution rate of the capital
budget including enacting a budget that curtailed recurrent expenditure to N1.6 trillion
(61.4 percent) and increased capital spending to N1.0 trillion (38.6 percent of the budget).
In addition the FMOF released N187 billion to the executing agencies in January 2009.
In comparison, FMOF releases through end January 2008 had been zero.

71.     The implementation of these strategies contributed to improved budgeting and
investment planning and the execution rate of the federal capital budget (in percent of
final approved capital budget) increased from 53.9 per cent in 2008 to 71.8 per cent in
2009, easily exceeding the minimum 60 percent rate targeted by the operation.




                                                   29
Policy Area              Outcome                                Target                       Achieved (Yes)
C. Raising non-          Non-oil revenue collected at the       An increase from 8.6%        9.8 percent
   oil revenue7          Federal level (as percentage of        in 2008 to 9% in 2009
                         non-oil GDP) increases.

72.     Non-oil revenue includes import and excise duties, corporate tax, value added tax
and Federal Government independent revenue.            By implementing various tax
administration reform measures, the government increased non-oil revenue collection in
percent of non-oil GDP from 8.6 per cent in 2008 to 9.8 percent in 2009 (as against a
target of 9 percent).

Policy Area              Outcome                                Target                       Achieved (Yes /Late)
D. Enhancing             Month end financial statements         75 percent                   67% June 2010
   transparency          produced by Federal                                                 77% December 2010
   and                   Government MDAs within 7
   accountability        days. (Baseline: formerly no                                        Achieved now but not
   for use of            automated statements).                                              achieved during
   public funds                                                                              implementation
   through
   effective
   oversight
   arrangements



73.     Nigeria also made good progresses in the area of accountability and
effectiveness of the use of public funds. The continuous effort to automate the treasury
function yielded good results as there was an increase in the percentage of federal MDAs
producing their month-end financial statements (with ATRRS) within 7 days from 50%
in 2009 to 67% as at June 2010. The original target of 75 percent was met later in 2010.
This is the only indicator that was not met within the implementation period of the
project (i.e. up to June 30th 2010).

Policy Area                 Outcome                             Target                       Achieved (Yes)
E. Enhancing                Federal Government                  65 % of FG contracts         65%
   Accountability,          contracts use national              using national standard
   Effectiveness            standard bidding documents          bidding documents
   and value for            and contract awards
   money in Public          published.                          95% FG contract              100%
   Procurement                                                  awards above N75
                                                                million are published.

74.    As of June 2010, over 65 per cent of government contracts were completed using
national standard bidding documents and all Federal Government contract awards above
N 75 million were published (original target 95 percent).



7
    Note: There was no prior action attached to this outcome. It is reported on for comprehensiveness.




                                                           30
75.     The Budget Office contributes to enhance the transparency of the budget
implementation by publishing quarterly budget outturn reports on its website. These
reports describe the extent to which the revenue and expenditure targets in the budget
were met during each quarter. In the procurement area, progress has been made by the
Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) which continues to ensure that MDAs operate
within the requirements of the Public Procurement Act.

76.    The Federal Government also sought to implement the Government Integrated
Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) in the Office of the Accountant-
General and Budget Office of the Federation and has made good progress in this regard: a
GIFMIS project manager has been appointed and the procurement of GIFMIS software
and hardware has reached advanced stages. 8


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory.

77.     Given the national development challenges that Nigeria was facing at the time
that the DPC was processed, the design objectives and indicators were highly relevant
(see above). The operation targeted nine strategic indicators to act as proxies for a
broader program of improved macroeconomic management and a more stable and
resilient financial sector. All nine indicators were met or surpassed although one was not
met within the project implementation period. The Nigerian authorities took quick steps
to resolve uncertainties on the interbank market and effectively ended the parallel
exchange rate regime. Intervening in the distressed banks also engendered greater
confidence among the general public and successfully avoided a run on the banks. The
healthy banks continue to make progress on the reform agenda supported by the DPC
while CBN has tailored emergency support to banks in distress.

78.     With the adoption of the oil-price based fiscal rule and conservative oil reference
prices, the Federal government managed to maintain expenditure at a level commensurate
with macroeconomic and fiscal sustainability, thus avoiding the previous boom-and–bust
cycle. Government has also consistently signaled its intentions in this area with
conservative estimates of the future oil price upon which the budgets are constructed. The
DPC cemented this progress as government enacted the 2009 budget using a reference oil
price of $45 per barrel (the actual average price in 2009 proved to be US$54 per barrel).
The government released $12.3 billion from the ECA in 2009 which was consistent with
a policy of counter-cyclical spending in a downturn.

79.    Finally government has also made serious progress in increasing the transparency
of the public financial management process. Starting from a situation in which no
automated month-end financial statements were produced, 67 percent of Government


8
 As of December 2010, the Bank team commented on the Bid Evaluation Report (BER) and the Office of the
Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) is now completing its due diligence of the proposed contractor.


                                                   31
MDAs were producing statements using ATRRS by the end of the implementation
period. The original target of 75 percent was met later in 2010 and presents a tremendous
improvement and a willingness to embrace new working practices. Government is now
pushing ahead with GIFMIS, value for money audits and additional transparency
measures. The DPC supported these efforts, focused government’s attention and helped
to highlight these outcomes to a sometimes skeptical international community.

80.    It is too early to tell whether these largely technocratic and technology related
reforms will actually be translated into improved accounting, budgeting and procurement.
However, it is clear that without these measures the task of increasing transparency,
accountability and evaluation of government processes would have been very difficult.
The ERGP task team continues to provide support to FGN on these issues going forward.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

81.     The poverty impacts of reform of the financial and macroeconomic sectors cannot
be understated. The Nigerian oil sector accounts for about 20 percent of GDP, 85 percent
of consolidated government revenue and 95 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
Within this context, the management and distribution of oil revenues and ultimately
diversification from oil will have a tremendous impact on development outcomes. Donor
resources account for less than 2 percent of government’s total budget and therefore
ensuring that Nigeria’s own resources are prudently and transparently managed is critical
to poverty reduction.

82.     However the sheer scale of the banking sector also illustrates why banking sector
reform is crucial to development outcomes. Banks account for 91 percent of the Nigerian
financial sector (see Figure 5) and
successfully resolving these issues would       Figure 5: Structure of Nigerian
have significant poverty impacts by             Financial Sector
reducing the contingent liabilities to the
                                                                Mortgage companies
state as well as being able to provide                                    2%
increased credit to the private sector which                                       Other non bank
would help fund employment creation                                                         2%
                                                                      Pensions
through business expansion.                           Insurance
                                                          1%            4%


                                                      Foreign banks
83.     The CBN moved quickly to                      4%
implement a series of reform measures that
had been recommended by the Bank team
throughout 2008 and early 2009. They
implemented the measures included in the
                                                                    Domestic banks
DPC policy matrix and even went beyond                                      87%
them in certain areas. The latest initiative in
the banking sector resolution is the creation
of AMCON which is expected to remove
toxic assets from the banks’ balance sheets allowing them to restart lending. (see Box 2).


                                               32
84.     On December 3rd 2010 AMCON announced that it would issue a series of
government guaranteed bond issues worth a total of N2.34 trillion (US$16.8 billion). To
put this in perspective Nigeria’s total outstanding domestic debt in 2010 (the vast
majority of government’s debt is domestically held) is N4.56 trillion ($28 billion as of
September 2010) or 14 percent of GDP. It is clear that issuing such a huge amount of
extra debt is likely to further crowd out the private sector and could have a serious impact
on domestic interest rates and growth. The authorities’ rapid and focused response to the
banking sector issues has served to contain the impact of the crisis. Nonetheless, these
numbers indicate the importance and potential development impact that addressing
structural reforms can have on financial sector stability and national development
outcomes. Once implemented, the medium-term structural reforms relating to bank
reporting and supervision supported by the DPC will considerably reduce the likelihood
of the recurrence of similar malpractice in the banking system.



(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

85.     In addition to the large number of institutional improvements highlighted above
(section 3.3) there were also other issues that were included in the policy matrix as
indicative measures for the medium and longer term. Many of these have also been
implemented including the following:

       The CBN has adopted a framework for risk-based supervision. This transition has
        now started with banks submitting their risk management frameworks to the CBN
        and the CBN undertaking training for all its bank supervisors.
       The CBN established a risk management department in March 2010 and has
        proceeded to develop capital adequacy and enterprise risk assessment process
        guidelines, based on ICAAP (UK) and COSOS (US) frameworks for the financial
        industry.
       A pilot risk-based examination of banks was conducted and completed in the first
        quarter 2010. Implementation of risk-based supervision on a consolidated basis
        for all banks started in 2011.
       CBN has also issued a tender for the development of a computerized movable
        collateral registry. CBN has also issued the first three licenses to private credit
        registries that are now fully operational.
       New prudential guidelines were issued in May 2010. The guidelines are aimed at
        promoting a sound system and account for evolving practices in the financial
        system. The guidelines serve as minimum requirements and banks are
        encouraged to adopt more stringent measures. The key revisions and additions
        were (i) revised loan provisioning, limits on credit risk and credit disclosure
        practices, and (ii) rules to entrench corporate governance in the banking system
        with maximum tenures of executive and non-executive officers stipulated.




                                               33
      The financial stability committee (FSC) has been strengthened and closer
       collaboration between the FSC and monetary policy committee (MPC) has been
       mandated. The FSC will focus on maintaining systemic stability and signs of
       distress while analyzing credit and financial asset movements.

86.     The Nigerian authorities are also focused on a number of future institutional
strengthening initiatives that have been designed and will be implemented in the near
term including;

      Harmonizing the supervision process to ensure a comprehensive financial system
       regulatory framework. Introducing a multi-regulator task force to integrate
       process reforms across the regulators.
      Establishing a consumer protection department to restore consumer confidence in
       the industry. The authorities foresee the development of the department into a
       fully fledged Financial Ombudsman Service within a 3-5 year period.
      The CBN will prohibit banks from using depositors’ funds for private equity or
       venture capital investment through some version of the Volcker rule or Glass-
       Stegal.

87.    Notably, as targeted by the DPC, the government continued to implement the oil-
price based fiscal rule for the 2011 budget. A Fiscal Responsibility Commission
mandated by the Fiscal Responsibility Law of 2007, was inaugurated by the Presidency
in September 2009. The Commission has the mandate to ensure prudent management of
the nation’s resources as well as the mandate to secure greater accountability and
transparency in fiscal operations within the Medium Term Fiscal Policy Framework.

88.     The execution rate of the capital budget reached 75 percent for the 2009 budget
(inclusive of the extension of the 2009 budget through the first quarter 2010). Medium-
Term Sector Strategies for key sectors have been further refined in 2010 and have been
used as a basis for prioritization of budget allocations. Procurement reforms also
proceeded according to written agreements with standard bidding documents increasingly
being used and contract awards published.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

89.     The DPC provided Nigeria with US$500 million in budgetary support at a time
when the international capital markets were inaccessible. The Bank’s ability to move
quickly and decisively greatly enhanced the Bank’s image and standing with the Nigerian
authorities. It successfully strengthened the Bank’s profile as a trusted partner in the
development process and brought a new found credibility, not just for policy advice but
also for budget support. The FMOF increasingly sought the Bank’s advice on a number
of financial sectors issues including the establishment of the asset management company,
the resolution of the credit squeeze, employment creation programs and credit guarantee
schemes.




                                           34
90.     This was the time that the Bank had offered budget support to the Nigerian
government in almost thirty years. Providing budgetary support at such a time also
effectively signaled the Bank’s confidence in Nigeria’s financial management which in
turn helped the country to secure a solid sovereign debt rating, an important step on the
road to middle income status.

91.    The Bank’s budget support operation also provided other donors with the
confidence to prepare their own operations. In October 2009, the African Development
Bank approved US$157m in its first ever budget support operation for Nigeria.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

92.    A multi-stakeholder workshop was organized on November 23, 2010 at the World
Bank offices in Abuja. The stakeholder group included representatives from Federal
Ministry of Finance, Central Bank, Securities and Exchange Commission, Nigeria
Accounting Standards Board, National Pension Commission, Debt Management Office,
Office of the Account General of the Federation, and the Office of the Auditor General of
the Federation.

93.     The discussion was divided into three parts: (i) Introduction and Context, (ii)
Macroeconomic Management Pillar, (iii) Financial Sector Stability and strengthening
Pillar.

The key findings were :

      Some participants were unfamiliar with the budget support instrument and most
       were generally skeptical of the Nigerian Government’s ability to effectively and
       efficiently program their budgetary resources. Many of the participants preferred
       World Bank investment and project finance over budgetary support.

      Since by its nature budgetary support is fungible and untied it is impossible to
       track such expenditure. Participants felt that this undermined the Government’s
       and World Bank’s ability to monitor the impact of the expenditure.

      Participants agreed that almost all of the outcome goals for the DPC were
       achieved during the implementation period of the credit. They felt that the
       government had moved well beyond the key indicators and in most areas had also
       achieved many of the indicative follow-on topics. Therefore there was broad
       consensus on the idea that Government was strongly committed to the reform
       program. However, the participants still felt that since the finances from the
       credit could not be tracked directly to support these policy changes, the results
       could not be fully attributed to the credit.




                                           35
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: The overall risk is Substantial.

94.     This overall rating is based on an assessment of the following sub-risks to the
project that the project document identified and which remain relevant:

95.     Governance risk (Substantial): Nigeria is often characterized as a country that
faces governance challenges. It occupied the last position in Transparency International’s
(TI) global rankings in 2000. The years of military dictatorship served to cement this
image. However, during the last decade of civilian rule the country has made great
strides in improving governance. There is a strong consensus for private sector led
growth and the need for stable macroeconomic conditions. Many of the actions identified
in the policy matrix focused on strengthening the transparency and accountability of the
financial sector and public financial management in Nigeria. Nigeria has seen its TI
ranking rise gradually from 142 in 2005 to 134 in 2010.

96.     In dealing with the banking crisis the central bank took a courageous stand against
powerful vested interests and the CBN governor was able to rely on the continued
support of two Presidents in this effort. Powerful commercial bank managers have been
removed from their posts and others have been imprisoned. These results have been
sustained in the face of significant political and legal challenges. This bodes well for the
future but at least for now the governance risks continues to be substantial.

97.     Political Support (Substantial): The implementation of any economic reform will
require a measure of political capital. Taking tough decisions is never easy and doing so
within the context of a severe economic downturn and the run-up to an election will
present even greater challenges. However, the President and his economic team have
fully supported the financial sector reforms, supporting the expeditious passage of
legislation required to create and fund AMCON.

98.     Political support for fiscal prudence waned in 2010 as government spending
continued to increase beyond the end of the crisis. However, having depleted the ECA
towards the end of 2010, a significant balance of US$5bn has now been accumulated.
Once the April 2011 elections are over, momentum should build for the continued
implementation of improved public financial management. The Governor of the CBN a
key leader of the reform program is expected to continue in his role for at least another
three years allowing him to provide considerable further impetus behind the post-crisis
structural reforms of the financial sector.

99.    Economic Risks (Moderate): A large buffer of international reserves and low debt
helped mitigate the impact of the global crisis on Nigeria. Oil revenues rebounded faster
than expected as did oil production. Government boosted its spending during the down
turn and growth did not fall to the levels forecasted by the IMF for 2009. However, the




                                            36
continued high level of spending in 2010 depleted the ECA and threatened fiscal stability.
Without a fiscal cushion Nigeria has become more vulnerable to exogenous shocks. 9

100. Going forward, the main economic risks stem from a possible collapse in the price
of oil. Although it is impossible to accurately forecast future oil prices it does seem that
the global financial crisis is over and that a gradual improvement in the global economy
will start to take hold from 2011 onwards. The oil price closed out 2010 at around
US$90 per barrel. The authorities have now moved to replace the excess crude account
with a sovereign wealth fund (which addresses the legal and institutional weaknesses of
the ECA) focused on providing resources for future generations. Nigeria’s domestic and
external borrowings are at still at manageable levels (16 percent total debt to GDP). The
exchange rate has stabilized following the removal of temporary restrictions and
Nigeria’s reserves are expected to start rising again following the elections (April 2011).

101. Monetary and exchange rate policy is focused on reducing inflation and
maintaining a stable exchange rate. The IMF has recently called for greater flexibility in
the exchange rate and lauded the recent increase in policy rates as a step in the right
direction. 10 Nigeria’s US$500 million Eurobond offer, launched in January 2011 was
heavily oversubscribed – a single of international investor confidence. Therefore we
conclude that there are fewer economic risks to the sustainability of the reform program.

102. Financial Sector Risks (Moderate): To a large extent the biggest potential
financial sector risk at the time of DPC approval was the possibility of a full blown
banking sector crisis. The task team had difficulty ascertaining the risk exposure of the
banking system due to weak accounting and reporting. While a collapse of the banking
sector was averted due to swift action by the CBN, the crisis has now come to pass. Far
from derailing the reform program it is actually providing a “burning platform” that is
galvanizing support from the political classes as well as the general public. As the
banking sector crisis unfolded it underscored the need for improved financial sector
governance, banking supervision, accounting and oversight practices as well as a
mechanism for removing toxic assets from the banking system.

103. Security risks (High): Nigeria’s post-colonial history is marked by constant
resorts to violence by separatist and militant groups. There is always the risk of
deterioration in the security situation. During 2010 militant activities in the Niger Delta
have flared up on several occasions, opportunistic bombings and religiously inspired
violence have also taken their toll. So far the government remains committed to
resolving these issues and has not allowed the law and order situation to shift its focus
from the economic agenda.



9
  IMF was forecasting 2.5% growth for 2009. The actual figure was 6.5% which was nonetheless a significant drop
from the near double digit rates enjoyed in 2007 and 2008.

10
     IMF: Staff Report for the 2010 Article IV consultation, Washington D.C. February 2011




                                                         37
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
   Rating: Satisfactory

104. This operation was built on a large body of high quality diagnostic work on the
financial sector as well as an ongoing engagement on fiscal policy and public financial
management. The team worked quickly and diligently to prepare the project within four
months from request to Board approval taking advantage of the Bank’s fast track facility
to provide Nigeria with timely funds.

105. Prior to DPC preparation, the Bank team produced a number of diagnostic pieces
in the context of support to the Nigerian Financial System Strategy 2020 which drew
attention to the looming imbalances in the Nigerian financial system. A report on the
stock market dated January 2008 highlighted the Nigerian stock exchange as having the
fourth highest price-earnings ratio of any exchange in the world and being more than
double the emerging market average. The Bank’s concerns over overvalued asset prices
were presented to Government in February 2008 before the crash.


Figure 6: Nigeria’s Overvalued Stock Market 2008




106. The stock market collapse was a trigger for the banking system crisis, as margin
loans provided to bank customers went into default. Within this context, the team
recommended a number of reform priorities including;




                                              38
           “To monitor banks’ investment in equities both on their own balance sheets and
            those of their subsidiaries” and
           “To introduce consolidated banking supervision”.

107. Another report presented to the CBN later in 2008 addressed potential banking
sector reforms. 11 The report highlighted the “potential for major banking problems in the
future if the system is not subjected to effective prudential regulation and supervision in
the short term”. The report pinpointed the weaknesses in the banking sector stemming
from a concentrated and weakening asset base as well as a lack of transparency. In
addition to the diagnostic report, the Bank also recommended a program of technical
assistance to improve banking supervision and a program designed to move Nigerian
banks towards international financial reporting standards. 12 This technical assistance
proposal called for a special inspections program very similar to the special audits
eventually conducted by the CBN about a year later in August to October, 2009.

108. On the IFRS agenda, the Bank team encountered resistance from the accounting
profession and other stakeholders. The Bank team convened and hosted a workshop on
these issues that was chaired by the Nigerian Accounting Standards Board (NASB) and
included participants from all the relevant financial sector regulatory bodies, including
the CBN and the FMOF. At the meeting the Bank invited accountants from PWC
Mozambique to present their experience of implementing IFRS. The agreements reached
at that meeting led to a consensus on the need to adopt IFRS.

109. In further discussions with the authorities the Bank team continued to highlight
deficiencies in bank accounting, reporting and disclosure and – in recognition of the
seriousness of the situation – the Bank continued to emphasize the importance of
undertaking a thorough “health-check” of the banking system according to international
best practices. The Bank team emphasized that this course of action would have multiple
benefits:

           Providing the banking system with technical support from experts versed in best-
            practice banking supervision;
           Providing a comprehensive assessment of risk exposure in the Nigerian banking
            sector;
           Advising on how best to respond to the potential risks arising from the
            international financial crisis; and
           Strengthening the capacity of the banking supervisors in using IFRS and
            supplying them with hands-on training in risk-based supervision.




11
     Nigerian banking system: A summary diagnostic. World Bank December 2008.

12
     Meeting the regulatory and supervisory challenges of a world class banking system, World Bank January 2009.




                                                          39
110. The Bank recommended this special program of audits plus capacity building as it
would allow the regulators to meet the challenges posed by the strong asset growth and
increasing complexity of the banking system. This approach had been used successfully
in a number of countries with rapidly evolving financial sectors and that the team offered
to share considerable accumulated knowledge and experience on the matter with the
Nigerian authorities.

111. The DPC could not track results for all the items of the reform program. Instead
it targeted a small number of the most relevant indicators to restore liquidity and stability
to the system. On the macroeconomic side, some of the selected indicators tracked
existing government priorities, such as those around budget execution. However, others
tracked more controversial topics, such as removing exchange rate controls and
improving the transparency of public procurement. The operation supported the dialogue
around these issues and as a result there is now broad consensus on them.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
   Rating: Satisfactory

112. The supervision (and design) performance represented a strong partnership
between the PREM and FPD teams. The operation also benefitted from a strong Abuja-
based supervisory presence along with an active day-to-day dialogue with the key
counterparts at the FMOF and CBN. The implementation status report was completed
thoroughly with all the required data on the key implementation indicators. The ISR
highlights the areas where the original targets were not being reached as well as
adjustments to the original baselines. For instance government expenditure figures were
recalculated during the project implementation. A supplemental budget was also
approved in 2009 thereby altering the capital execution rates.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

113. The Nigeria DPC came at a time when government’s short term spending
priorities were jeopardized by the impact of the global financial crisis, the fall in the oil
price and pressure on the exchange rate. Despite years of solid macroeconomic
stewardship and the debt write-down, the situation threatened the country’s
macroeconomic balance.

114. The DPC addressed the major structural reform elements required to clean up the
financial sector and maintain sound macroeconomic policies and budgetary priorities.
Almost all of the priority outcome indicators were quickly achieved building on the prior
actions that were met before Board approval. The priority actions proved important to
maintain government focus on its reform program and the government continues to make
progress in all areas despite a hiatus caused by a change in Presidents and increasing
policy uncertainty in the run up to the upcoming election.




                                             40
115. Finally the DPC was put together very quickly with only a matter of months
elapsing from the time that an official request was received in March to Board approval
in July 2009. The fact that the task team was able to move so rapidly demonstrates the
solid analytical basis that had been established in the areas of macroeconomic
management and on the financial sector in the years preceding the crisis as well as strong
support from the country management.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

116. A large part of the success of the program can be attributed to the Government’s
high level commitment to see it succeed. During the preparation process, the Federal
Minister of Finance personally led the process and garnered the support of other
stakeholders for a comprehensive set of key reform measures and their associated
indicators and prior actions. The Government also designated key counterparts for the
overall program providing a clear line of day-to-day communication with Bank staff.
This was important in the context of a fast tracked operation. This greatly facilitated
communication and monitoring of progress by the task team during supervision as well as
preparation. The lead Government counterparts in the CBN and FMOF and the
Minister’s advisers took the lead in identifying bottlenecks and following up with the
respective units to ensure that the prior actions were being met.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Highly Satisfactory

117. In addition to the role of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the CBN played a lead
role in implementing the financial sector reforms. Prior to the DPC program, the CBN
had been reluctant to accept the Bank’s advice as there were no overt signs of a crisis at
the time. While many observers realized there might be problems in the banking sector
none had guessed its size. The concerns of the authorities were, understandably, that any
moves towards assessing/auditing the banks so as to reveal their situation according to
international financial reporting standards might trigger just the kind of event that the
authorities were seeking to avoid. Understandably, these concerns impacted the design of
the actions which the Bank was able to include in the results matrix of the DPC.

118. Following the abatement of the international crisis and the appointment of a new
Governor at the Central Bank in June 2009 the CBN’s willingness to address the situation
of the banks changed dramatically. The new Governor has personally adopted and led
the reform agenda. The new Governor communicated the reform agenda in the domestic
and international media and expressed strong appreciation of the vocal support received
from both Bank staff and management. Government used its own resources to recruit the
necessary consultants, lawyers and financial advisers to implement the reform program.
The Bank’s support proved important to rally support in the donor community and


                                           41
provide impartial analysis to the private sector, especially international rating agencies
and commercial banks interested in investing in the sector.

119. Responding to repeated recourse by certain banks to liquidity provided through a
special discount window, Governor Sanusi initially authorized special audits of 10 (of
24) Nigerian banks. Subsequently a second round of audits of the remaining banks was
undertaken. The results of these audits were announced in two batches in August and
October, 2009, and it transpired that 9 of the 24 banks had liquidity difficulties and 8 of
them suffered from capital shortfalls and possible insolvency. The immediate liquidity
requirements of the banks amounted to some NGN 600 billion (equivalent to $4 billion).

120. The ultimate size of the bank bail-out is still unclear, as the troubled banks still
remain under central bank stewardship. The authorities have also established an Asset
Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) to resolve the situation of the troubled
banks. Concerted efforts to strengthen bank supervision supported by the IMF and the
Bank are also underway.

121. The measures to strengthen and stabilize the banking system first proposed by the
Bank and later adopted by the Nigerian authorities represent deep-seated structural
reforms to the accounting, reporting and disclosure practices of the banks, and to
institutional strengthening of the supervisory and resolution processes.         In an
environment hitherto renowned for its corruption and weak governance these results
provide the basis for a turn-around not only in terms of bank solvency, but much more
importantly in the practices exercised by banking supervisors, in sanctioning bank
managers and their boards for malpractice, in encouraging banks to develop and deepen
the financial system rather than relying on earnings for short-term speculation, and in
setting up a robust resolution framework. The excellent performance of the CBN was
widely recognized and in January 2011, Governor Sanusi was named Central Bank
Governor of the Year by “The Banker” (a publication of the Financial Times of London).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

122. The satisfactory rating reflects a combination of the highly satisfactory
performance of the major implementing agency and a satisfactory performance from the
remainder of the Government. As a result of strong Government commitment the
program was delivered on a timely basis. There were no serious slippages despite a
broader context of tremendous uncertainties associated in a change of administration. In
most cases the Government has exceeded the minimum requirements agreed to in the
program document. Although the proceeds of the project took several months to
disburse, the reform program went ahead regardless (see section 2.2). During this period,
members from the executive branch negotiated with legislators to build consensus and
support for the operation, eventually passing resolutions to adopt the program. They also
liaised with the Federal Executive Council several times to secure the Government
approvals required to process the DPC. Later this ongoing liaison would result in the
quick passage of the AMCON Act that would allow the banking sector resolution to
make rapid progress.


                                            42
6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

123. Ownership is key to success: Key to the DPL’s success is the fact that the
request for DPC support was initiated by the Government without any prodding by the
Bank. This was made easier by the fact that the Minister of Finance had prior experience
in both the World Bank and the Nigerian Debt Management Office. As a technical
specialist he could advise and guide other key stakeholders within Government on the
pros and cons of borrowing from IDA as opposed to borrowing from the international
capital markets and he understood the potential value of the DPC instrument both as a
benchmark for international support as well as a tool to galvanize the policy stance in
Government. The strong Government leadership and buy-in to the program at the time it
was being prepared was key to its success.

124. Strong analytical foundations are required for a successful operation: The
Bank’s high quality analytical work and numerous dissemination events helped to build
the Bank’s credibility in the financial sector, strengthen the relationship with the CBN
and provided a road map for reform of the banking sector and improvements in public
financial management. When the request for a DPC came the Bank was able to respond
extremely quickly because of its long standing engagement on the financial sector and
macro-economy. Allowing Bank teams more time to maintain a high quality sector
dialogue in key sectors over time will ensure that when the reform windows open the
Bank is well placed to support government priorities.

125. The importance of communicating the reform program:                       The DPC
components focused on financial sector reform could not have been implemented without
the reformist Governor of the CBN and the Federal Minister of Finance. These key
reform champions communicated their own reform program without much visible
support from the World Bank. During this period the Bank deliberately remained silent
on key reforms, and prepared and approved its budget support operation without fanfare.
Bank staff provided support to the CBN and FMOF initiatives when asked. Having all
the reform messages come from respected Nigerian leadership rather than from Bank
staff was vital for the success of the program in the complex Nigerian political economy
context.

126. Decentralization of a task team can lead to better collaboration: The DPC
focused on two sectors macroeconomics and financial sector led by PREM and FPD
respectively. There was close collaboration throughout between the teams both in Abuja
and Washington. Each team had a lead specialist based in the field. In addition, most of
the team members were also based in the field office and therefore were able to cultivate
close working relationships with government counterparts. This facilitated dialogue,
especially as the breadth and depth of the engagement grew. Having the task members
based in one place helped to develop a sense of teamwork and also allowed the team to
have day-to-day discussions with government counterparts.




                                           43
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

127. Although the Federal Ministry of Finance was requested to officially comment on
the draft ICR it declined to do so. However, representatives of the FMOF attended the
stakeholder consultation session and their views are reflected above in section 3.6.

(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                           44
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                               Title              Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Michael J. Fuchs              Adviser                            AFTFE              TTL
Volker Treichel               Lead Economist                     AFTP3             Co-TTL
Ismail Radwan                 Lead PSD Specialist                AFTFW
Jan Walliser                  Sector Manager                     AFTP3
Bayo Awosemusi                Lead Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Hawa Cisse Wague              Senior Economist                   AFTP4
Gloria Aitalohi Joseph-Raji   Economist                          AFTP3
Antonio C. David              Economist                          AFTFE
Giulia Pellegrini             Junior Professional Associate      AFTFE
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi              Lead Counsel                       LEGEM
Andrew Lovegrove              Consultant                         ECSPF
Rona P. Cook                  Program Assistant                  AFTFE
Yeshareg Dagne                Program Assistant                  AFTFE
Mark Zeydler-Zborowski        Consultant                         AFTHE
Irene F. Chacon               Operations Analyst                 AFTFW

Supervision
Michael J. Fuchs              Adviser                            AFTFE              TTL
Volker Treichel               Lead Economist                     AFTP3             Co-TTL
Ismail Radwan                 Lead Private Sector Development    AFTFW
Winston Percy Onipede Cole    Senior FM Specialist               AFTFM
Manush A. Hristov             Senior Counsel                     LEGAF
Gloria A. Joseph-Raji         Economist                          AFTP3
Mary Asanato-Adiwu            Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Irene F. Chacon               Operations Analyst                 AFTFW
Pierre Strauss                Economist                          AFTP3
Giulia Pellegrini             Junior Professional Associate      AFTFE



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                             USD (including travel and
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
                              Total:                 25.89               157,416
Supervision
                              Total:                 13.32               124,712
ICR
 14




                              Total:                   4.03               23,546




                                                45
Annex 2. Nigeria: Country at a Glance
Nigeria at a glance                                                                                                                                                      2/25/10

                                                                                       Sub-             Lo wer
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                              Saharan            middle
                                                                        Nigeria       A frica         inco me            Age distribution, 2008
(2008)
                                                                                                                                               Male                          Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                       151.3          81 8           3,702           75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                            924        24,242           32,309           60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                   2.3           2.5              1.2
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                              48            36               41           45-49

                                                                                                                        30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                       177.4             885         7,692
                                                                                                                        15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                     1 ,170          1,082         2,078
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                                1,940           1 ,991        4,592                0-4

                                                                                                                                   10                5            0          5           10
GDP gro wth (%)                                                             6.0             5.0           7.6                                   percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                  3.7             2.5           6.3

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 – 2 0 0 8 )

P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 .25 a day (P P P , %)                     64               51             ..
                                                                                                                        Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                      84               73             ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                            47               52            68
                                                                                                                        250
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                   97               89            46
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                27               27            26           200


A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 15 and o lder)                             80              71            88           150

A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 15 and o lder)                           64              54            77
                                                                                                                        100
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                         104             103           1 12
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                        89              93           106            50

                                                                                                                          0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                  47               58            86
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)            30               31            52                                 1990        1995        2000    2007


                                                                                                                                        Nigeria             Sub-Saharan Africa


                                                                                                                    a
N e t A id F lo ws                                          19 8 0       19 9 0       2000             2008

(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                      34          255              174         2,042           Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2007):
 Netherlands                                                       3         4                0           344           12
 A ustria                                                          0         1                2           321
 United Kingdo m                                                   5        25               23           286            8


                                                                                                                         4
A id (% o f GNI)                                               0.1          1.0             0.4            1.3
A id per capita (US$ )                                          0             3               1            1 4
                                                                                                                         0


Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                                                                                    -4

                                                                                                                                                     95                             05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                            10.0          7.4             6.9           11.6
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                      12.4          7.2            38.2           11.0
                                                                                                                                               GDP                      GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )               0.8           9.2           101.7          118.5
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                            165           87             100            21 4
                                                                                                                        19 8 0 – 9 0 19 9 0 – 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 – 0 8
                                                                                                                               (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                           71.1        94.5         124.8            151.3                       2.8                     2.8                  2.4
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                        64,202       28,472        45,984          207,118                       1.6                     2.5                  6.6
                                                                           (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                       ..         ..          48.6          32.7                             ..                      ..          7.0
Industry                                                           ..         ..          30.5          40.7                             ..                      ..          3.8
  M anufacturing                                                   ..         ..           3.4           2.6                             ..                      ..                 ..
Services                                                           ..         ..          20.9          26.6                             ..                      ..          14.4

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                        ..         ..                 ..            ..                        ..                      ..                 ..
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                     ..         ..                 ..            ..                        ..                      ..                 ..
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                         ..         ..                 ..            ..                        ..                      ..                 ..

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                            29.4         43.4             54.0          41.6                            ..                      ..                 ..
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                            19.2         28.8             32.0          24.7                            ..                      ..                 ..
Gro ss savings                                                  ..           ..               ..            ..


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are no t available.
a. A id data are fo r 2007.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                           46
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results




                                   47
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Federal Government of Nigeria was invited to provide their own assessment of the
operation and also to comment on the draft ICR but declined to do so.




                                        48
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    49
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

128. The operation supported the implementation of reforms in the financial sector,
fiscal policy and management, and improvements to governance. Support for these
actions is based on a range of economic and sector work on the Nigerian macroeconomic
and financial sector that were concluded in 2008, including:

Financial Sector Development

      Banking Sector Diagnostic: This report focuses on how the banking sector can be
       a major driver in achieving the FSS2020 vision once it addresses the risks of the
       sector, e.g. strengthening bank risk management capacity and banking supervision,
       transition from Nigerian accounting standards to International Financial Reporting
       Standards (IFRS) and diversify lending exposures away from volatile industries
       like the oil sector.

      Housing Finance: This report address the issue of what can be done to close the
       current housing gap, estimated at more than 17 million units. The report
       recommends improving the time and cost of property registration, reforming the
       primary mortgage institutions and the National Housing Trust Fund. The report
       brings together some of the policy lessons learnt in the creation of mortgage
       liquidity facilities around the world and presents this as a possible contribution
       towards development of the mortgage market.

      Social Housing: The focus of this report is primarily on the options available for
       those further down the income distribution to finance their housing needs. It also
       looks to cover other aspects of housing finance, such as access issues and the
       availability of funding for construction of housing. The report is targeted at policy
       makers both in the financial and housing spheres to consider a more broad-based
       approach to housing policy than just relying on the private sector to develop
       housing which will be paid for through mortgages. It suggests the need to develop
       the Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) framework, create a national framework
       for housing PPPs, clarify the micro-finance rules for housing products and
       withdraw the proposed VAT increase on housing.

      Pensions Industry Assessment: This report presents the background of the 2004
       pension reform which was designed and implemented to: (i) improve the fiscal
       sustainability and welfare adequacy of the pension system and (ii) create a well-
       regulated, prudently operating industry. The report presents recommendations to
       address flaws within the current pensions’ framework. It concludes by explaining
       that the continued success of the pension industry depends on developments in
       capital markets, public debt management policies, the insurance industry, and
       interagency cooperation – issues central to the FSS2020 agenda.




                                            50
   Insurance Industry Assessment: This report highlights the fact that the Nigerian
    insurance market is grossly underdeveloped and consumers are underinsured to a
    significant degree. The report suggests enforcing compulsory insurance policies
    and cracking down on fake companies as ways to quickly grow the industry. In
    the medium term, Nigeria will need to overhaul the accounting and regulatory
    framework for the industry, invest in improved IT systems and mount a public
    awareness campaign.

   Access to Finance: This report identifies key issues for microfinance, branchless
    banking and SME finance. There are encouraging signs that access to finance is
    poised for growth, but the sector faces regulatory issues. Improved information,
    the promotion of credit registries, adopting a leasing law and operationalizing a
    moveable asset register are recommended as ways of growing access to finance in
    Nigeria.

   Capital Markets: The report highlights the sizeable growth experienced in the
    capital market due to structural changes in the financial system. The report
    suggests that high cost elements might be preventing more companies from
    getting listed on the NSE and impeding the development of an issuer market. Also,
    the limited supply of financial instruments restricts investors to follow near
    identical investment strategies with little opportunity for diversification. The
    report concludes with recommendations to address these challenges.

   Debt Markets and Debt Management: This report highlights recent improvements
    in government debt management capacity and remaining areas for improvement,
    particularly in the areas of strategy development, cash flow forecasting, cash
    balance management and developing the secondary market.

   Report on Observance of Standards and Codes for Credit Rights: The report
    found that although the Insolvency and Creditor Rights regime of Nigeria is
    strong in certain aspects it remains in urgent need of reform. The report concludes
    that the principal legislation that drives the legal framework for insolvency and
    creditor rights in Nigeria, the Companies and Allied matters Act and the
    Bankruptcy Act, are both antiquated and do not incorporate the features of
    modern international best practices of insolvency.

   Nigeria Investment Climate Assessment 2008: The ICA 2008 was based on a
    survey of 2,300 enterprises based in Nigeria. It concluded that Nigerian firms are
    unproductive largely due to a lack of electricity, good roads and access to
    affordable finance. Each year 16 percent of sales in Nigeria are lost as a result of
    poor infrastructure, crime and corruption. Deepening the financial sector would
    serve to boost the productivity and performance of Nigerian businesses.

   Doing Business in Nigeria 2009: This is part of an annual series of reports that
    compares more than 180 countries around the world in terms of the ease of doing
    business. The report finds that Nigeria is ranked 118th - a position that has


                                        51
       remained fairly static over the last few years. Nigeria ranks particularly poorly on
       registering property, dealing with licenses, trading across borders and paying
       taxes. However, the country fairs relatively well in employing workers and
       protecting investors.

      FSS2020 Change Management and Implementation Plan: The objective of this
       report was to evaluate current/proposed change management approaches for the
       implementation of the FSS2020 vision. The report reviewed the current change
       architecture for transitioning the FSS2020 vision and provided recommendations
       to strengthen it. The report concluded by suggesting that for the FSS2020 vision
       to be successfully implemented, there needs to be a two-pronged change
       management approach working concurrently to engage in changing a large
       complex system and develop institutional capacity.

Public Financial Management

      Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
       (PEMFAR): This report conducted in 2006 proposes actions to promote a sound
       Public Financial Management Environment. The PEMFAR report provides the
       analytical underpinnings for Government’s ongoing efforts to address the
       weaknesses in Public Expenditure Management. The report noted that while
       advances were made in macroeconomic and debt management, budget
       formulation, accounting, and procurement reform less progress was made with
       respect to capacity building, including in the Budget Office, and in such areas of
       financial accountability as reporting, monitoring, and disclosure.

      Debt Markets and Debt Management: This report highlights recent improvements
       in government debt management capacity and remaining areas for improvement.

      Review of capital budget implementation: A recent review of obstacles to the
       faster execution of the capital budget resulted in a number of measures being
       adopted by the government, including the early release of the capital vote and the
       swift approval of the 2009 budget as well as the introduction of a template for
       MDA’s to monitor and evaluate the implementation of capital projects. A
       summary of the recommendations is in Annex 3.

Nigeria’s Growth Strategy

      Employment and Growth Study: Targeted interventions to remove binding
       constraints in employment-intensive value chains, in particular in the physical
       infrastructure area, were identified as a key strategy to enhance the employment-
       intensity of growth in a recent study by the Bank on employment and growth. The
       study found that notwithstanding high, sustained growth in the non-oil economy
       since 2001, the share of the population outside the labor force had not declined
       and that youth unemployment was on the rise.



                                           52
                                                                                   To Tahoua                                                                        To Agadez                                    To Nguigmi
                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°E                                                                                            15°E

                                                                                               Illela                                                                                                                          NIGER                                                            1963 Level

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e                        1973 Level
                             NIGER                                                SOKOTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ob
                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                                                       Kandi                                   Sokoto                                                   Katsina                                                                                                                                                2001 Level
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nguru                            be                Oamasak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yob
                                                                           ma                                               Kaura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lake Chad
                                                                      Ri                                          S        Namoda                               S a h e l Hadejia                                                           Gan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a




                                                                                                                  ok
                                                                                                                       o                       K AT S I N A                                                                              gu




                                                                                                                    ot
                                                         Birnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ORNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B ORN O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                                                   J I G AWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                         Kebbi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y OB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OBEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ma
                                                                                                                      Gusau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jam
                                                                                                         Z AM
                                                                                                           A M FAR A                                              Kano                                                                                                      Maiduguri
                                                           KE BB
                                                           KEB BI                                                                                                                            Dutse                              Pokiskum             Damaturu
                                         To               Nig
                                        Kandi                 er
                                                                                                                                                                    K AN O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ngola




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                  Zaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Go




                                                                                                                                                                                             Bunga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G OM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OMBBE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                        BAUCHI
                                                                                                                                                      Kaduna                                                                                                    Biu
                     BENIN                                  Kainji
                                                                                                  Kontagora
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bauchi
                                                           Reservoir                                                                                  KADUNA                                                                                 Gombe
                                                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ra
                                                                                                                              dun
                 10°N                                          Wawa              NIGER
                                                                                                                            Ka                   Ba u c h i                                                                                                                                                                 10°N
                                                                                                                                                                                 Jos
                    To
                                                                                                                                                P l a te a u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          da
                    Bori
                                                                                                                                Minna




                                                                                                                                                                                 Jos




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nu
                                                                                                                                                                                             P L AT E A U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AW
                                                                                            N ig                                                 ABUJA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yola




                                                                                                                                                                                   Plat
                                                                                                er
                                                                           K WA R A                                                FEDERAL                                                      Shendam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AM
                                                                                                                                   CAPITAL                                                                                                   Jalingo




                                                                                                                                                                                       eau
                                                                                                                             Baro TERRITORY
                                                                                Ilorin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AD
                                                                                                                                                                         Lafia
                                                                                                                                                    A S AR AWA
                                                                                                                                                  N AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ta
                                                   O
                                                   OYO
                                                     YO                                                                                                                                                                   ab
                                                                                                                                                      Benue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bali
                                                           Oshogbo                         EKI TI
                                                                                           EK IT                                     Lokoja                                                          Wukari
                                                                                                Ado-Ekiti                                                     Makurdi                                           TA R A B A
                                                                                                                           KOGI
                                                  Ibadan
                                                                   OSUN                     Akure                                                                 BENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mt
                                  Abeokuta                                                                                                                                                                                 Chappal Waddi
                                                                                     ONDO                                                                         Udi Hills                                                    (2,419 m )
                                      OGUN                                                                                                                                                                                       Go
                                                                                                             EDO                                                                                                                             th
                                                                                                                                               ENUGU
                  To                                                                                                                                  Enugu
                                                  LAGOS
                                                                                                                                    ANA




                 Lomé                                                                       Benin                                                               Abakaliki
                                                 Lagos                                       City
                                                                                                                      Asaba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NIG ERIA
                                                                                                                                       MBR




                                                                                                                                               Awka       EBONYI
                                                                                                                                           A




                                                                                             Sapete                                                                                                                      CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                           Nige




                                                                                                                                                                   CROSS                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                        D E LTA                         Owerri         Umuahia
                                                                                                          Warri                                                    RIVER                                                                                                                   STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                        IMO ABIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                 5°N                                                                                                          RIVERS              Aba       Uyo                                                                                                         5°N
                                                                                                        Yenogoa                                        AKWA-         Calabar        To
                                                                                                                    Port                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                Gulf            of        Guinea                                        BAYELSA Harcourt                                IBOM                       Doula
                                                                                            N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                               ig




                                                                                                     er                                                                                                     0            50         100            150     200 Kilometers
                                                                                                           Delta                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33458
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STATE BOUNDARIES
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0                   50                   100          150 Miles
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                    Bioko I.                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                     5°E                                                       (EQ. GUINEA)                                          10°E
