                                                            97560 September 20, 2010
Nigeria: Financial Sector and Public Financial Management Development Policy Credit (DPC)




 SUPPORTING NIGERIA’S EFFORTS

 Accelerating economic reforms and mitigating the impact of the
 global economic crisis.




Overview
With the onset of the most recent financial crisis, Nigeria was threatened by a loss of market
confidence as its budget position slipped from strong surplus to substantial deficit from 2008 to
2009. By providing the first budget support to Nigeria in 30 years, the International
Development Association was able to help the government arrest the slide in market
confidence, support ongoing economic reforms, and help address key financial transparency
issues that will buffer the country from future shocks.


Challenge
Ahead of the international financial crisis, Nigeria’s economy
                                                                     More Results
had grown strongly through a combination of sound
macroeconomic management and rising oil prices. With the

                                                                    75%
crisis, the drop in oil prices and consequently in government
revenues, the economy started experiencing tremendous
pressure. Although good oil revenue management had
generated savings in previous years, falling oil prices,            implementation rate of the 2009
                                                                    federal capital budget
production problems, and the deteriorating fiscal outlook
reduced international confidence. Large portfolio outflows
also triggered a decline in the stock market with increasing
pressure on the currency and liquidity constraints in the           MORE INFORMATION
banking system.                                                      Financial Sector and Public
Nigeria was faced with the task of taking steps to address           Financial Management
the immediate erosion in market confidence while addressing          Development Policy Credit
some of the key structural weaknesses that contributed to
the onset of market instability.


Approach
A US$500-million development policy credit from IDA helped provide fiscal space at a time
when government’s budget shortfall and borrowing requirement increased dramatically,
primarily as a result of the global financial crisis and the concomitant fall in oil prices from a
peak of US$147 to US$38 per barrel. The dramatic fall in government revenues in a period of
slowing global demand created enormous fiscal pressures as the overall fiscal balance turned
from a surplus of 5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2008 to a deficit of 8 percent in
2009, threatening Nigeria’s currency stability and confidence in the banking sector.


The IDA operation provides budgetary support to the Nigerian government to offset the fiscal
impact of the on-going global financial crisis. It also supports the government in maintaining its
current economic reform path in the financial sector, fiscal policy, management and
governance. The three program objectives are: (i) maintaining confidence and stability in the
financial system; (ii) strengthening the banking System; and (iii) supporting the objectives of the
2009 budget, which focused on raising government investment spending to accelerate non-oil
growth.


The credit identified a set of medium term actions required to achieve regulatory reform in
banking, pensions, insurance and capital markets sectors. Key activities include the adoption of
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), implementation of risk-based banking
supervision, improving collateral and land registries, and strengthening and enforcing creditor
rights. IDA’s support also aims to help the government expand access to finance through
innovative SME and MFI instruments for small and medium enterprises (SME) and
microfinance, and improving transparency and investor choice in pension and capital markets.
These actions were crucial to maintaining the momentum for reform and to achieving longer-
term structural outcomes. Such reforms were closely aligned with the government’s overall
medium-term reform agenda and its seven-point agenda program as well as the World Bank’s
2009-2013 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).


Nigeria, with IDA’s backing, was able to maintain confidence in its financial markets, although
Nigeria’s sovereign rating slipped a notch in the process to B-. The main areas supported by
the development policy credit are: (a) maintaining confidence and stability of the banking
system, and (b) sustaining growth through sound macroeconomic policies and budget priorities.
The Central Bank of Nigeria successfully supported the recapitalization of eight banks in 2009
but remaining banks are healthy. Non-performing loans declined steadily from over 18 percent
in 2005 to 6.2 percent at the time of approval of the IDA facility in 2009. Credit to the real
sector has increased since the crisis from N3.0bn to N4.5bn between July 2009 and May 2010.
IDA’s credit is supporting the central bank in strengthening the capacity for risk-based
supervision, in introducing International Financial Reporting Standards and improved
transparency, and greater disclosure of financial reporting that will reduce the likelihood of such
banking crises in the future.


Sound macroeconomic fundamentals have helped Nigeria sustain growth despite a weak
global economy. Non-oil GDP growth accelerated to 8.2 percent in the first quarter of 2010
from 7.9 percent from the year-earlier quarter.


The operation represents a good example of a rapid response to the client’s request for
support in light of particularly difficult economic circumstances, caused by the global economic
downturn. IDA was able to approve the development policy credit within six months of the
request from the Nigerian government.


Results
IDA’s assistance to Nigeria in this instance highlights how a well-designed operation can help
a government push through difficult but critical reforms to support its long-term goals.
Examples of achievements supported by the facility include:

       Adoption of IFRS in Nigeria’s financial sector is currently in progress. This was essential
       in the authorities’ program to make the Nigerian financial sector more transparent.
       Although the banking crisis that followed in August 2009 was already brewing at the
       time of the IDA credit, the introduction of internationally-accepted accounting and
       reporting standards remains a major aspect of the financial authorities’ plan to improve
       transparency and governance in order to put the system on a more solid footing.

       Improved implementation of the 2009 federal capital budget. Nigeria reached a 75
       percent implementation rate of the 2009 federal capital budget, thereby supporting the
       government’s goal to build critical infrastructure necessary for sustained economic
       growth.

       Employment opportunities generated. By supporting necessary and shovel-ready capital
       projects, such as a program of road maintenance, IDA also helped the government in its
      efforts to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the poor by generating increased
      employment opportunities. This has been followed up with a government commitment to
      diversification away from oil and the encouragement of six key sectors including:
      entertainment; information communication technology; tourism; wholesale and retail
      trade; construction; and meat and leather. The government is targeting at least 100,000
      new jobs in these promising sectors.

      Contributed to non-oil growth and macroeconomic stability. Overall, the IDA credit
      helped support continued high non-oil growth in Nigeria of about 7.7 percent. The
      currency has been stabilized at around N 150 per US$1, inflation has come down from
      15.5 percent in 2006 to 11 percent in 2010, and interbank rates have plummeted from a
      high of 20 percent in late 2008 to 3-4 percent in September 2010.



Bank Contribution
The operation was based on extensive analytical work undertaken by IDA in the preceding
years, particularly in support of the authorities’ Financial System Strategy 2020 and on public
financial management. The development policy credit itself provided US$500 million of IDA
financing.


Partners
The IDA credit was the first budget-support operation in Nigeria in almost 30 years and
reinforced the progress made by the Nigerian authorities in strengthening the financial sector
and its budget management. It also prompted the African Development Bank to begin
discussions and to grant budget support to the country following the IDA operation.


Moving Forward
Continued support is being provided by the Bank, in conjunction with development partners
such as the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID) and Germany’s GTZ, to
strengthen financial sector regulators, enhance competition and transparency, and promote
financial inclusion.
Continued technical assistance is being provided by the Economic Reform and Governance
Project and the project preparation facility for the Growth and Employment Project. The
government has also requested a new technical assistance operation, the Financial Authorities
Strengthening Technical Assistance Project, to support capacity-building and institutional
change in the financial sector.


Beneficiaries
The IDA credit potentially prevented a broader collapse of the banking system in Nigeria. The
Central Bank of Nigeria has since moved to improve the banking system’s management,
transparency and protections for investors and depositors. The Nigerian people as a whole are
beneficiaries of IDA’s support to the government as these actions averted a major meltdown of
the financial system, and depositors in banks have been guaranteed, preventing huge losses to
ordinary people. Last but not least, the improvements in public financial management let
everyone benefit from improved transparency and better use of public resources.
