Report No. 750a-IVC                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Fifth Highway Project
Ivory Coast
July 31, 1975
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by Lhe Bank Group. it may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00        =  CRAF 200
CFAF 1 million = US$ 5,000
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures:  Metric
1 meter (m)               = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2  = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)      - 2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DPN'      - Department of Public Works
FAC       - Fonds d'Ai.de et de Cooperation
FED       - Fonds :uropeen de Developpenent
MiJT      - Ministry of Public Works and Transport
OTAQVOTH  - Cmni=m Technique d'Amenagement (consultants, France)
PAA       - Port Autonome d'Abidjan
RAN       - Regie du Chemin de Fer Abidjan-Niger
RTD       - Road Transport Division
SETEC     - Societe d'Etudes Techniques et Economiques (consultants, France)
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
vpd       - vehicles per day



IVORY OOAST
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMH4A.RY  0oo0oo0o00o0000000.000000000000000080000000000    1i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION  ........0.....0.0..      00.0....       000000          1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   o0.............o0o.0 oooo0*oo0oooo0o           2
A.    Economic Setting  ..o.. *.oooooooo-ooooooooooo             2
B.   .The Transport System  *......000.......0 0 *0              2
C.    Sector Management                      000000000000        4
3.   HIGHWAYS  0000000000...      ..0.0.                                   7
A.    The Road Network             .                             7
B.    The Road Transport Industry and Regulations ...            7
C.    Administration  ..0.............0 0.0.- *...00..           9
DO    Financing  00..0000000 00000000000000000*0000             10
E     Enigineering and Construction  0eOOO0OOO00O*O             10
F.    Maintenance  *                                            12
14.   THE PROJECT  o.....a0 00a00 000000000000000000000000a0000           12
A.    Description  0O 0O..OooooooeOoooo.oooooo00000             12
B.    Cost Estimates  00000000000.0000000000000.00000           16
0.   Execution   ooooooooeooooooooooooooooooooo000000           18
D.    Financing and Disbursements  voooooooo*o*                 18
5.   ECONOMIAC EVALUATION  o.o ...0o0o0 ...0o0 ooo0oo0*o0.o *.o*.o        19
A.    General  0oooooooooooooooooooooo*o0o00oooooooo            19
B.    Pavement Strengthening Program   oooooooooooo             19
CO    Road Realignment and Construction  0ooooo 0ooooo          19
6.   REo0MMENDATIONS  0o.ooo.O 00 0 0 00.0.000 0 0 0 0 0000 0 0 0 0000 00 0 0 0 00000 0.0000  21
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Eo Bonhomme (Engineer) and
P0 Gyamfi (Economist), and Miss A0 Galenson (Economist).



Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES
1.  Investments in Transport Sector, 1971-75
2.  Development of the Highway Network, 1961-73
3.   Vehicle Registration, 1965-72
4.   Expenditures for Highways, 1968-72
5.   Revenues from Selected Taxes on Fuel, 1967-72
6.   Fellowships
7.   List of Equipment
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9. Sensitivity Analysis on Rates of Return
10.  Annual Fuel Consumption for all Transport Modes, 1967-73
11. Price Variation Indices in Ivory Coast
12. Typical Design Standards for Different Road Types
13. Typical Road Construction and Maintenance Costs
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector
2.   Details of Economic Analysis
MAP
Fifth Highway Project - IBRD 11279R



IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The transport system of the Ivory Coast consists of more than 36,000
km of roads, about 640 km of railways, two major seaports, about 400 km of
navigable lagoons, two international airports and fourteen airfields for
domestic services. The system is focussed on Abidjan, the capital city,
principal port, and commercial center. Roads are the principal mode used for
domestic transport, carrying about 70% of inter-urban freight and passenger
traffic.
ii.       Statistics on total traffic indicate that the country's recent high
economic growth (about 6% p.a.) has manifested itself in increased transport
demand. To sustain this impressive growth, the Government has undertaken a
crash program of economic diversification, especially in the agricultural
sector which now accounts for about 40% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and
about 80% of total exports. The success of this effort will depend greatly
on the availability of reliable and efficient transport, and ongoing and
planned investments in the sector are geared to meeting this requirement.
With particular reference to road development, Government plans emphasize
upgrading of high priority trunk axes, and expansion and improvement of the
secondary and feeder road system in agricultural areas.
iii.      In parallel with implementation of transport investments, action is
required to improve the mechanism for overall sectoral planning and coordina-
tion, as well as the organization of road transport, especially of the public
trucking industry. The proposed project includes technical assistance to the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) which will provide a start
towards building the institutions to achieve the desired objective.
iv.       Since the first Loan made in 1954 (Loan 100-FR, US$7.5 million) for
purchase of railway motive power, four other Bank Group operations in the
transport sector have all been for highway development. Financing has been
provided to assist the Government mainly with construction of about 300 km
of primary roads, execution of a betterment program on about 100 km of major
trunk roads, and reorganizing and improving highway maintenance; project
implementation has been generally satisfactory. The Bank has also acted as
executing agency for a comprehensive transport survey financed by the United
Nations Development Prcgramme (UNDP) and carried out by consultants SETEC
(France).
v.        The proposed Fifth Highway Project consists of: (i) continuation
of the pavement strengthening program (for about 200 km of major trunk roads)
initiated under the Third Highway Project; (ii) construction and realignment
of the Anyama-Agboville road (about 45 km); and of a 27 km section of the



- ii -
Azaguie-Adzope road; (iii) technical assistance to MPWT to set up a Planning
and Research Unit and train local staff, as well as overseas fellowships for
training engineers and technicians of the Department of Public Works (DPW);
(iv) purchase of equipment for traffic counting, vehicle weight control, and
pavement surveys and (v) feasibility studies and detailed engineering for
the road Mankone-Tenigboue (66 km), for about 300 km of other secondary roads
to be determined and study of feeder roads, (vi) studies to help improve the
curriculum of the local civil engineering school and on the reorganisation
of the Public Works Laboratory (Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travanx Publics).
The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated at about
US$69 million equivalent, of which US$43 million in foreign costs (62%) are
proposed for Bank financing, and about US$13.4 million equivalent are taxes;
the Government is expected to finance all the local costs of the project.
vi.       MPWT will be responsible for execution of the project.  Consultants
for construction supervision, technical assistance, and feasibility studies
and detailed engineering, will be selected in agreement with, and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank; outlines of the proposed scope of
services to be performed were discussed and agreed with the Government at
Loan negotiations. The exact number and proposed timing of overseas fellow-
ships for DPW staff were agreed at negotiations, and trainees will be selected
during project execution; candidates will be chosen from personnel below the
management level or newly-recruited graduates in highway engineering. In the
event that funds for the fellowships are made available by UNDP, the alloca-
tions under the proposed Loan will be cancelled.
vii.      Specifications and bidding documents for the construction items have
already been prepared by DPW assisted by consultants. For works on the roads
Anyama-Agboville and Azaguie-Adzope, consultants SETEC have reviewed the recom-
mended alignment and design standards with a view to reducing costs.  The
Government at negotiations agreed that bids for these works will be called
only after approval by the Bank of the consultants' recommendations. Contracts
for all works will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in?accordance with Bank guidelines. It is expected that about 1,500 laborers
will be employed over the three-year construction period.
viii.     The proposed project will help provide the reliable and effi-
cient transport system necessary to support the Government's program of eco-
nomic diversification. It also fits into the current policy of achieving a
more even distribution of income among various sectors of the population by
facilitating the spread of development benefits weli beyond the capital city
of Abidjan. The proposed construction works are expected to result in cheaper,
safer, and more reliable transport for part of the rural population, thus
assuring its growth and assimilation into the national economy. The overall
economic return for the project is expected to be about 19%, compared to an
opportunity cost of capital estimated at approximately 12%.
ix.       Provided agreements are reached on the issues listed in para. 6.01
of this report, the proposed project is suitable for a Loan to the Government
of the Ivory Coast in an amount of US$43 million on applicable current terms
for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      During implementation of the First Highway Project (Loan 542-IVC,
US$5.8 million, 1968), the Bank also acted as executing agency for a UNDP-
financed Transport Survey in the Ivory Coast. This survey was carried out by
consultants SETEC (France) in two phases: Phase I was executed in 1968/69 and
covered an overall assessment of transport requirements, with identification
of investment priorities in the various modes. The principal recommendations
concerning highways were that an extensive program of primary road improvements
should be undertaken, and that steps should be taken to improve road mainte-
nance and general investment policy within the sector. Phase II of the Survey
completed in 1972 included feasibility studies and some detailed engineering
for the highest priority roads, and a study of highway administration and
maintenance. These studies, together with additional feasibility studies for
about 700 km of primary roads financed under the First Highway Project and
executed by consultants Omnium Technique d'Amenagement (OTAM/OTH, France),
provided the basis for planning a series of highway projects for Bank/IDA
financing.
1.02      Since 1971, Bank/IDA lending totalling US$45.5 million has been
provided in consecutive years for three highway projects, consisting essen-
tially of about 300 km of primary road construction; detailed engineering for
about 300 km of other roads; implementation of a four-year highway maintenance
and betterment program; execution of a first phase (110 km) of a pavement
strengthening program on major trunk roads; and a study of feeder roads in
cotton-growing areas. Implementation of these projects has been generally
satisfactory, although some of the civil works items have been plagued by
various delays, including cost overruns, poor work organization by some
contractors, modifications of original designs by the Government and late
delivery of highway equipment. These problems are expected to be reduced in
the future as a result of DPW's increasing efficiency in project implement-
ation, and the efforts being made to improve planning (paras. 2.16-2.17).
1.03      Execution of the maintenance program is now progressing satisfac-
torily; the betterment program planned for about 1,600 km of secondary roads
started in April 1974, but substantial price increases have made it doubtful
that the entire program can be executed as scheduled. Current worldwide
inflation has also resulted in a 40% increase in construction costs for the
first phase of the pavement strengthening program, leading to an overrun over
appraisal estimates of about US$1.5 million which the Government will finance;
execution of the works has recently started, about two years behind schedule
followiiig two unsuccessful biddings. A second phase of this program is
planned under the proposed project. The cotton feeder road study was completed
in early 1974, and the investments recommended will be implemented as part of
the Cotton Areas Rural Development Project (Loan 1077-IVC, US$31 million,
January, 1975). Details of each of the three highway projects and its present
status are given in Annex 1.



- 2 -
1.04      This report is based on studies carried out by consultants SETEC and
OTAM/OTH (para. 1.01), and on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. E. Bonhomme (Engineer) and P. Gyamfi (Economist) which visited
Ivory Coast in May/June 1974.  Miss A. Galenson (Economist) participated in
the report-writing.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The Ivory Coast has an area of about 323,000 km2, and a 1972 popula-
tion of 5.4 million growing at about 3.3% p.a. in recent years and with a
projected growth rate of about 3% over the next few years. Population centers
and areas of high economic activity are concentrated in the southeast and
central regions of the country. During the 1960s, Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
increased at an average of 7.5% p.a. in real terms; in the early 1970s, the
rate declined slightly to 6% p.a., and is expected to continue at this level
until about 1980. Per capita GNP was about US$340 in 1972, one of the highest
in Africa. Agriculture provides almost 30% of GDP; its produce consists
largely of cocoa, coffee, and timber, which together account for about 75% of
total exports. Government strategy is to diversify agriculture in order to
reduce the dangers of extreme price fluctuations on the world market in any
one commodity.
B.   The Transport System
General
2.02      The system consists of more than 36,000 km of roads, about 640 km of
railroads, two major seaports, about 400 km of navigable lagoons, two interna-
tional airport, and fourteen airfields served by regularly scheduled domestic
flights. The system is focussed on Abidjan, the capital city, principal port,
and commercial center (see Map 11279R).
2.03      Statistics on total traffic indicate clearly that the high rate of
economic growth has manifested itself in increased transport demand. Road
traffic has increased over recent years at rates of up to 15% p.a. in some
cases, rail traffic by about 7% p.a., and traffic in Abidjan port by about
7-8% p.a. Additional increases have also resulted from the growing dependence
of Upper Volta and Mali on imports transported through the Ivory Coast. Over-
all, transport demand has increased at more than 6% p.a. over the past five
years. For domestic transport, roads are the predominant mode used, carrying
about 75% of inter-urban passenger traffic (in pass-km) and about 70% of
inter-urban freight traffic (in ton-km); the rest is carried largely by rail.



-3-
Highways
2.04      Details on the highway system and its administration, as well as
the characteristics of the road transport industry, are given in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.05      The railway system is part of the Regie du Chemin de Fer Abidjan-
Niger (RAN) owned jointly by the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta; it consists of
about 640 km, of which 627 km form part of the 1,145 km single-track line from
Abidjan to Ouagadougou. The system is fully dieselized. Passenger traffic
(in pass-km) grew at about 8%o p.a. over 1960-70, while goods traffic (in
ton-km) has increased at about 8-1/2% p.a. over the past three years. A
recent study by consultants OTAM/OTH forecast a growth over the next decade
of 6% p.a. for passenger traffic, and 7% p.a. for goods (not including the
increases in freight traffic to the Sahelian countries as a result of the
recent drought).
2.06      A badly needed modernization of RAN's management, organization,
and operations is presently underway in the field of accounting and budgeting,
but similar steps are required in several other areas. Quality of service
is unsatisfactory, door-to-door transport times are long, accident rates are
high mostly due to poor maintenance of track and equipment, and the level of
passenger comfort is very low. RAN's large investment program for the 1970s
includes provision for modernization and some doubling of track, purchase of
rolling stock and telecommunications equipment, and station improvements;
implementation of this program is expected to contribute to improved quality
of service. Further developments could be achieved by improving handling and
forwarding services.
2.07      RAN also suffers from chronic operational deficits resulting from
high operating costs, and from its cross-subsidizing tariff system which is
aimed at giving the railway an advantage over road transport, irrespective of
the cost of carrying particular commodities. As part of their study of RAN's
financial prospects, OTA11/0TH have developed a tariff system and policy which
will enable the railway to operate without operational deficits; these pro-
posals are now being reviewed by the Government, the Bank, and the European
Investment Bank (EIB), the expected sources of financing for RAN's moderni-
zation program. A Bank preappraisal mission visited Ivory Coast in June,
1975 to discuss, inter alia, possible measures for dealing with RAN's financial
and service quality problems.
Ports
2.08      There are two deep-water ports, one at Abidjan and the other at San
Pedro, about 300 km west. The Abidjan port has 19 general cargo berths and
4 specialized ones, with facilities for handling bananas, timber, ore, fish,



-4-
oil, and river traffic. Dry cargo traffic at the port has developed very
rapidly over the period 1965-72, increasing at about 10% p.a., with total
port traffic increasing over 1972-73 from about 5.9 to about 6.5 million
tons.
2.09      Abidjan port facilities are now showing signs of congestion.  The
average berth occupancy rate is about 90%. Present berth productivity levels
might be increased by about 15% if several operational problems were corrected;
even with increased productivity, however, the port will need more space to
handle expected traffic increases of about 600,000 tons p.a., and the Port
Autonome d'Abidjan (PAM) is presently constructing five more general cargo
berths and two container berths.
2.10      The San Pedro port is expected to handle about 1.5 million tons in
1975, of which about 1.3 million tons of logs. However, in contrast to the
Abidjan port, traffic has not developed as expected because access roads are
still under construction, and general cargo berths therefore remain under-
utilized.  Timber exports have also been lower than forecast.
Air Transport
2.11      The air service network includes an international airport at Abidjan,
and 14 domestic airfields capable of handling DC-3-type aircraft.  Interna-
tional traffic at Abidjan has increased at about 12% p.a. since 1960.  Yamous-
soukro airport has been recently converted into an international facility,
an investment difficult to justify on economic grounds.
C.   Sector Management
2.12      The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) is responsible
for management of the transport sector, and discharges these functions through
its Department of Public Works (DPW) for road infrastructure, its Road Trans-
port Division (RTD) for road transport regulation, through RAN for railways,
and through the port authorities of Abidjan and San Pedro. The Ministry of
Planning coordinates transport investments with those in other sectors of
the economy, and the Ministry of Finance determines the financial ceiling
for planned investments.
Planning of Transport Investments
2.13      Investment plans for roads, railways, and the ports of Abidjan
and San Pedro are initiated by DPW, RAN, and PAA respectively (often on the
basis of consultants' studies), and are reviewed by the Ministry of Planning.
Project lists for each mode are prepared for examination by a technical
committee consisting of a representative each from the Ministries of Planning
and of Finance, and from the transport authority directly involved. The
Transport Sector component of the Government's Five-Year Plan (the "Loi-Plan")



-5-
is then prepared, and updated annually by the technical committee in the form
of a "Loi-Programme" in accordance with changing transport demand, unforeseen
cost overruns and other developments which might influence investment prior-
ities, and availability of financing.
2.14      The existing system is a commendable one, but it has in practice
two major limitations, relating to institutional and staffing problems.
Regarding the first, the only forum for discussion of the sector investment
program as a whole is within the technical committee, but by the time the
committee convenes, it is already too late to make meaningful adjustments to
the program. Also, MPWT has no coordinating body to integrate recommendations
for the various investments proposed, and to ensure consistency in sectoral
policy and objectives between the different modes; this has considerably
reduced the Ministry's ability to influence important matters such as rail/
road competition and transport pricing. The shortage of MPWT staff for
project evaluation at the sectoral level is critical, considering that
transport is such a vital sector of the economy. The Ministry of Planning
has been attempting to meet MPWT's need for additional planners/economists,
but it is not sufficiently well staffed for this arrangement to be satisfactory.
These weaknesses in the planning mechanism are partly responsible for the
Government's chronic indecision on project matters, as exemplified by ex-
perience with design and construction of the Man-Issia road under the Second
Highway Project (see Annex 1), and the consequent delays in implementation.
Investments in the Sector
2.15      The 1969 UNDP Transport Survey had recommended 28 projects for
implementation during 1971-80, from which proposed investments in the 1971-75
"Loi-Plan" were selected. The Plan placed major emphasis on four areas of
development, namely:
(i) upgrading high priority sections of the trunk road system
to meet increased transport demand, and developing second-
ary roads, particularly in agricultural areas in the east;
(ii) construction of a deep-water port at San Pedro (and a net-
work of access roads) to help development of the western
regions where timber reserves are located, and to relieve
the pressure of log traffic at Abidjan Port;
(iii) continued modernization of'the railway system; and
(iv) further development of the Abidjan port to handle expected
traffic.
These investment objectives were essentially sound. In translating them
into individual projects, however, several uneconomic variations (usually
involving increased scope or higher design standards) have been introduced



to the original concept. This has resulted partly from political intervention
in the planning process, and partly from MPWT's inability to update and coor-
dinate the investment proposals presented by DPW, RAN, and PAA (para. 2.13).
2.16      The institutional and staffing problems involved in planning trans-
port investments were discussed with Government officials during project
appraisal and at the 1974 Bank Annual Meetings; understandings were reached
as follows:
(i) the Government will create and staff a Planning and Research
Unit within NPWT under the office of the Minister; the Unit
would be expected, inter alia, to assist in evaluating and
coordinating sectoral investments, and to advise on policy
issues. The proposed project provides for the services of
two technical assistance experts to help establish the unit
and perform the necessary coordination tasks, as well as
funds for overseas training of Ivorians to eventually staff
the Unit (para. 4.07); and
(ii) the Government will consult and discuss in detail with the
Bank its proposed transport investment plans and any
subsequent modifications thereto; specifically, discussions
will be held annually in connection with the yearly updating
of the Five-Year Plan.
The Government at negotiations confirmed the above understandings.
2.17      Details of transport investments to be included in the 1976-80 plan
are still unknown. Of the 28 projects originally proposed for execution over
1971-80, 15 would have been implemented or underway by end-1975. The merits
of the other 13 proposals should be thoroughly investigated in determiiining
future priorities, but such an investigation would yield valid results only
if priorities are updated and re-ordered to reflect current and forecast
needs. The UNDP has agreed in principle to provide the required consulting
services to carry out this updating study (para. 4.11).
Transport Coordination
2.18      Several issues of transport co-ordination exist in the Ivory Coast,
the most significant being: (i) rail/road competition and coordination on the
Abidjan-Bouake-Ferkessedougou-Upper Volta corridor; and (ii) coordination of
investments between the ports of Abidjan and San Pedro. Regarding item (i),
the railway and road are complementary rather than competitive for origin and
destination points between Abidjan and Bouake; for points beyond Bouake, the
road is in direct competition with the railroad. So far, RAN has had a
competitive edge with its lower tariffs for both passenger and goods traffic,
and with its captive hold on Upper Volta's transit traffic. According to the
findings of consultants OTAM/OTH, the railway (which is the more economic
mode for most of the traffic) would maintain its cost advantage even after



the expected paving of the road Katiola-Ferkessedougou-Upper Volta border;
the real determinant of modal split would therefore be the quality of service
offered. The Bank would insist on such improvement as a condition of any
possible financial assistance to RAN (para. 2.07).
2.19      Regarding port development, the major problem in coordinating
investments is the absence of cooperation between MPWT and the special
Government agency charged with programming development of the southwest
region, including San Pedro port and its access roads. Since the rate of
development of San Pedro directly affects not only the demand at Abidjan port
but also the volume of road traffic on east-west routes, the proposed Plan-
ning and Research Unit will be expected to undertake as one of its principal
tasks the establishment of proper coordination between the two ports.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Road Network
3.01      The classified road network totals some 14,000 km of all-weather
roads (of which about 1,700 km paved), and about 22,000 km of unimproved
tracks (Table 2). Additionally, an undetermined number of tracks in forestry
areas have been opened up by lumber companies and partly state-owned agri-
cultural development corporations.
3.02      Although the network serves most parts of the country adequately,
development of the hinterland of San Pedro requires new roads, and diversifica-
tion of agriculture and growth of the sector demand improvement and expansion
of the network of secondary and feeder roads. Several construction programs
designed to meet these needs are being implemented under ongoing Bank Group
operations, and this effort will be continued under the proposed project
(paras. 4.12-4.13 and Annex 1).
B.   The Road Transport Industry and Regulation
3.03      The road transport industry is regulated by the Road Transport
Division (RTD) of MPWT. For passenger transport, RTD's role is limited to
vehicle and driver licensing and periodic vehicle inspection. Similar re-
gulations are applied to freight transport "for own-use", except that vehicle
weights and dimensions are also controlled. The existing regulations have
posed no problems to the healthy development of these components of the
transport industry.
3.04      For-hire passenger transport, handled almost exclusively by Ivorian
owner-operators, has flourished over the past decade, due in part to the
dynamic management of the National Union of Passengers and Freight Carriers
(SNTVI), and the absence of undue governmental interference. The structure
of the vehicle fleet has adjusted well to transport demand, with larger and
more economic buses replacing small 5-8 passenger cars (Table 3). Passenger
fares have kept pace with costs. For-hire trucking, which is regulated in



terms of entry and tariffs, has fared less successfully, especially for onmer-
operators and small firms who suffer a high bankruptcy rate. This is primarily
because of: (i) an oversupply of capacity which has created a buyer's market;
(ii) the low level of participation by small operators in the lucrative timber
and oil transport which, up till this year, was handled almost exclusively by
large foreign-owned firms; and (iii) the small operators' lack of required
managerial and accounting skills, the latter resulting in their easier
acceptance of lower-than-cost tariffs.
3.05      The Government attempted to solve the above problems by instituting
entry and tariff regulations aimed respectively at adjusting supply more
closely to demand, and at ensuring that trucking charges at least covered
actual costs. This proved unsuccessful. Entry regulations failed to achieve
the intended results, due principally to the difficulties in estimating total
demand and consequently the number of additional licences to grant, and also
in ensuring that new entries are employed where the increase in demand occurs.
Implementation of transport price regulations has been even less successful.
The Government established a freight office at Abidjan to police the enforce-
ment of these regulations and to establish efficient communications between
truckers and their customers. However, while the role of the Abidjan office
as a forwarding agent was generally welcomed, its function of policing tariffs
drew adverse reaction from both merchants and truckers who forced the Govern-
ment to suspend their compulsory use of the office.
3.06      In the wake of the failure of entry and tariff regulations, the
Government has decided to cease enforcing them, and is instead taking sound,
positive steps to organize and use the freight offices as forwarding agents
and providers of information on road transport. The Government is also
studying alternative sources of financing for truckers which will make them
more independent of foreign merchants who presently make the loans for some
truck purchases, and then dictate tariffs to these owners.
3.07      Also, as part of its Ivorianization policy, the Government is pushing
for increased participation of local truckers in the lucrative timber and oil
transport. The response from foreign firms has been good, and many have either
sold their transport business to Ivorians, or formed joint ventures with them;
the level of local participation increased from about 30% in January 1973 to
some 70% in June 1974. A further analysis of the feasibility of additional
improvements and their implementation will be one of the principal tasks to
be undertaken by the proposed Planning and Research Unit.
3.08      The axle-load limit is restricted to 10 tons.  However, most of the
trucks in the country have 13-ton permissible axle loads; overloading is
therefore widespread, resulting in increased road maintenance costs, and
advancing the need for pavement rehabilitation. The Government undertook
under the Second Highway Project to enforce the 10-ton limit to forestall
such expenditures. As a possible solution to the overloading problem, the
Government is considering raising the axle-load limit to 13 tons and has
since the past year been designing its pavements for this load. Whether



this limit provides the optimum combination of road network investments and
vehicle operating costs in Ivory Coast has not yet been studied, but it will
be in keeping with the expected trend in Europe, the source of practically
all Ivorian trucks. It is recognized, however, that the transition to any
new system will take time; in the interim, to prevent the serious effects of
truck overloading on road conditions, the proposed project provides for the
purchase of mobile scales to assure vehicle weight control (para. 4.10).
C.   Administration
3.09      The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT) through its Public
Works Department (DPW), is responsible for administration of most of the clas-
sified network, except for a few road sections located in the San Pedro and
Kossou Dam areas which are temporarily under the jurisdiction of special
agencies. DPW is also concerned with hydraulics, but plans are presently under
consideration to transfer all or part of these responsibilities to a semi-public
agency, thus alleviating the Department's workload. DPW carries out its high-
way functions through Headquarters divisions for general administration and
accounting, equipment, engineering, and a newly created one for periodic high-
way maintenance, and through seven regional divisions responsible for routine
maintenance operations.
3.10      Technical assistance for strengthening DPW's organization and
training personnel has been provided under the ongoing Third Highway Project.
Under this program, DPW set up in 1973 the abovementioned Headquarters division
for periodic maintenance to operate mechanized brigades scheduled to rotate
according to a specified annual work program. Also, a programming and orga-
nization unit has been integrated into the engineering division; when this
unit becomes fully operational, it will serve as a focal point for information
on the road network and its traffic, thereby allowing better planning of
highway operations, and improved monitoring of allocated resources. This
additional specialization in Headquarters tasks will eventually result in a
streamlining of functions which is expected to greatly improve DPW's per-
formance.
3.11      There has been some recent encouraging progress in the staffing
situation, but shortage of qualified local personnel at the upper and middle
levels still remains a crucial issue. Because of this situation, delays have
occurred in implementation of the Government's expressed objective of trans-
ferring to Ivorian nationals the responsibilities now entrusted to some foreign
experts; moreover, some positions in DPW's staff establishment have remained
vacant. The staff shortage exists principally because efforts to promote the
development of national skills in engineering (either through local facilities
or scholarships abroad) are quite recent and need expansion; and also because
salary discrepancies between positions in DPW and in the private and parastatal
sectors make it difficult for DPW to recruit promising engineering graduates
and retain them in its service.
3.12      To help relieve the above situation in the short tern, the proposed
project includes financing for overseas fellowships for DPW engineers and
technicians (para. 4.09). A more lasting solution to the problem will involve



- 1o -
increasing the capacity and competence of the local institutions to produce
more and better qualified civil engineers and skilled workers to satisfy the
demand of both the private and public sectors. The proposed project provides
technical assistance services for a comprehensive study of manpower needs and
of curriculum improvements required in the local civil engineering school
(para. 4.08). This assessment would serve as a basis for future international
assistance in upgrading the skills of local engineers, a vital pre-requisite
for development of the domestic construction industry (paras. 3.18 - 3.19).
Additonally, Government indicated at negotiations that a commission is
currently reviewing the salary levels for all civil servants and will make
its findings known to the Bank.
D.   Financing
3.13      Total highway expenditures have averaged about CFAF 6 billion (about
US$30 million) annually over the period 1968-72 (Table 4). Maintenance ex-
penditures averaging about CFAF 2.2 billion per year are met by allocations
from the Road Fund financed by taxes on fuel and lubricants, and from the
general budget. New construction is financed by the investment budget, through
contractor-financing, and by loans/credits mainly from the Bank Group, France,
Italy, and the Federal Republic of Germany. More recently, the African Devel-
opment Bank (ADB) and the European Development Fund (FED) have also contributed
to development of the network.
3.14      Road users contribute to Government revenues through annual vehicle
registration fees, import duties and value added taxes on vehicles, spare
parts, fuel and lubricants, and two separate taxes on fuel, the 'taxe speciale"r
and the "taxe specifique". Over the period 1968-72, receipts from the fuel
taxes averaged about CFAF 7.5 billion annually (Table 5), which is well above
average total road expenditures over the period. The road-user tax study
recently completed under the Second Highway Project concluded that both truck
and passenger-car owners pay adequately for the marginal costs incurred in
using the highway network. The current level of taxes leads to neither a
misallocation of traffic between modes, nor unacceptable dampening effects on
agricultural and other economic outputs. The consultants have however re-
commended a new system aimed at:  (i) consolidating all user charges into a
fuel tax and a registration tax; (ii) removing the tax bias for diesel against
gasoline; and (iii) recovering the total costs of road administration, and
maintenance, as well as that part of construction costs not financed by
foreign funds. This is more towards a more economic system of road-user
charges, but the consultants did not consider congestion costs which are
important in Abidjan; they have therefore been requested to re-do their analysis
to correct this. During negotiations, the Government undertook to exchange
views with the Bank by December, 1976 on consultants' recommendations and a
program for future action on road-user taxes and to carry out the program.
E.   Engineering and Construction
3.15      Engineering studies for road construction works are carried out either
by selected foreign consulting firms; by the Laboratoire du Batiment et des



- 11 -
Travaux Publics (LBTP) which is managed by Ivorian personnel and assisted,
when necessary, by the French Centre d"Etudes des Batiment et des Travaux
Publics (CEBTP); or by the Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Developpe-
ment (BNETD), an autonomous agency supervised by the Ministry of Planning and
partly staffed with technical assistants provided by the French Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FC). The demand for the services of the LBTP has signifi-
cantly increased and its reorganization to cope with the demand has become
necessary. A study for this purpose would be included in the project.
The number of private local consulting firms has increased substantially in
recent years, but they have little experience in civil works.
3.16      About 22 major civil works contractors (employing about 6,000
persons) 1/ are currently active in the country; their annual turnover is about
CFAF 18 billion (US$75 million equivalent), of which about 20-25% in salaries.
Most of these contractors are local subsidiaries of Europe-based firms. Only
two are Ivorian companies: SONITRA is owned jointly by the Government and an
Israeli contractor Solel/Boneh, and SONAGECI is a state-owned autonomous en-
terprise created in 1974, and whose assets include the highway equipment from
DPW's former New Works Division. SONITRA (in joint venture with Solel/Boneh)
built the Abengourou-Agnibilekrou road financed under the First Highway Project,
and recently completed construction of the Bouake-Katiola road as part of the
Second Highway Project; its performance in both cases has been satisfactory.
SONAGECI has submitted the lowest bid (jointly with a French contractor) for
construction of the Yabayo-Gagnoa road financed under the Fourth Highway
Project; this work is expected to start shortly.
3.17      Contracts for highway projects financed with international or
bilateral assistance are let on the basis of competitive bidding following
guidelines of the aid agencies involved. Project supervision is generally
carried out by foreign consulting firms, with local counterparts assigned
both to consultants and contractors for training purposes. For most other
projects, the Government relies upon contractor-financing, thereby excluding
the possibility of domestic firms being principal contractors for these
projects.
3.18      The number of local firms engaged in building construction has
increased rapidly over the past four years, especially the African-owned
component, and many of them could progressively branch out into civil works.
The policy of entering into joint venture with experienced foreign contractors,
as applied by SONITRA and SONAGECI, is considered the most efficient way to
train local personnel in management and construction techniques.
3.19      A stimulus for development of the domestic contracting industry will
be provided under a recently appraised project for a development finance
company, the Banque Ivoirienne de Development Industriel (BIDI), which will
make funds available to local contractors for equipment purchases. Addition-
ally, under the proposed highway project, the Government agreed at negotiations
1/   Of whom about 60% Ivorians, 35% other Africans, and 5% non-Africans.



- 12 -
that consultants presently carrying out the general feeder road study will
be asked to program their construction to allow for the possible participation
of emerging domestic contractors in executing construction and improvement
works to be recommended, and for which such contractors are usually well
suited.
F.   Maintenance
3.20      The SETEC study of highway administration and maintenance had
stressed the necessity to reorganize maintenance operations, to train DPW
personnel, and to increase budgetary appropriations for maintenance; these
recommendations are now being implemented under the Third Highway Project
with technical assistance by consultants Berger/BCEOM (US/France). Substantial
progress has been made in the reorganization of maintenance. The problem of
lack of DPW Headquarters' control over periodic maintenance has been alleviated
by the creation of a separate division for this task, and of a programming
and organization unit. The periodic maintenance division now executes re-
gravelling and minor betterment works with its own brigades, and is also
responsible for supervision of periodic maintenance on paved roads executed
by contract. The field subdivisions are now being reorganized to specialize
in routine maintenance. Consultants have developed the necessary program
and aids for training DPW maintenance personnel, and the program is now under-
way.
3.21      Maintenance funds have increased steadily at about 7% p.a. since
1966.  An even higher increase is expected in the future to keep pace with
inflation and increased maintenance requirements due to rapid traffic growth
and extension of the network. No problems are foreseen in getting the Govern-
ment to provide the necessary funds for increased maintenance. One of the
reasons for inadequate allocations in the past was DPr's inability to accurate-
ly estimate the cost of its maintenance operations. Proper and easier account-
ing methods are being instituted by consultants as part of the maintenance re-
organization under the Third Highway Project.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  continuation of the pavement strengthening program (for about
200 km of roads) initiated under the Third Highway Project;
(b)  construction of the Anyama-Agboville road (about 45 km), and
realignment of a 27 km section of the Azaguie-Adzope
road;



- 13 -
(c) technical assistance to MPWT to set up a Planning and Research
Unit and train local staff; and overseas fellowships for
training DPW engineers and technicians;
(d) purchase of equipment for traffic counting, vehicle weight
control, and pavement surveys;
(e) Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the road
Mankono-Tenigboue (66 km) and for about 300 km of other
secondary roads to be determined and a study of feeder
road requirements; and
(f) studies to help improve the curriculum of the local civil
engineering school and to reorganize the Public Works
Laboratory (Laboratoire du Batiment et des Travaux Publics).
Pavement Strengthening
4.02      The 1969 UNDP Transport Survey identified a program for pavement
strengthening of major trunk roads linking Abidjan with the economically
active regions in the north and west. These roads were built some 12-18
years ago with light pavements which are now failing under increasing traf-
fic volumes. DPW's field subdivisions have attempted to repair the roads
through normal maintenance operations, but this was an expensive and only
a short-term solution, as proved by the rapid pavement deterioration which
later occurred. A more radical treatment is required to extend the service
life of the pavements. The works proposed by the consultants and agreed
with the Government and the Bank therefore consist in reinforcing pavement
edges, reconstructing the base and bituminous surface courses on the most
deteriorated sections, and providing a bituminous overlay on sections still
in relatively good condition.
4.03      A first phase of the strengthening program (110 km) is being executed
under the Third Highway Project.  The remaining 200 km proposed for execution
under the present project include the following road sections (see Map):
Pakobo-Toumodi                  49 km
Toumodi-Yamoussoukro            36 km
N'Douci (P.K. 41.7)-Divo        30 km
Divo-Lakota                    40 km
Lakota-Gagnoa                  45 km
200 km
4.04      The sections Pakobo-Toumodi and Toumodi-Yamoussoukro are located on
the main north-south axis linking Abidjan to the borders with Mali and Upper
Volta. Design standards for these two sections are based on an expected ser--
vice life of 10 years, since the Government intends that the proposed Abidjan-
N'Douci expressway will eventually be extended as far as Yamoussoukro or



- i4 -
Bouake.  The three other sections proposed for strengthening are locaced
on the road from Abidjan to the Ian and Sari Pedro regions in the wcst.
Design standards for these sections are based on an expected life of 20
years, and take into consideration the substantial traffic increases
expected as a result of ongoing development of the road network in "hose
areas, and rollowing construction of the deep-water port at San Pedro.
Construction of Anyama-Agboville and Azaguie-Adzope Roads
4.05      The present link from Abidjan to the northeast region near the
Ghanaian border is a paved road through Adzope, of which a 70 km section
Agnibilekrou-Abengourou was built to two-lane standard under the First High-
way Project. The first section Anyama-Adzope, is a badly deterinrated one-lane
road with tortuous curves.  Consultants OTAM/OTH carried out traffic analyses
and economic investigations throughout the eastern region; these studies
indicate that the most economic route from Abidjan should also serve Agbo-
ville, a city of increasing economic importance which is presently connected
to the capital by a poorly-aligned earth road to Azaguie (42 krD), end then
by a one-lane paved road (7.5 km) to the junction with Abidjan-Adzope
(16 km from Anyama).
4.06      The proposed project provides for consruction to two-lane paved
standard of: (i) a more direct alignment (45 km) from Anyama to Agboville,
reducing the present distance by about 13 km; and (ii) a 27 km section start-
ing at Azaguie (8 km from Anyama) towards Adzope, avoiding the worst sections
of Abidjan-Adzope, and with a distance saving of about 2 km. Through traffic
will continue to use the Abidjan-Abengourou road until the sectior. Agboville-
Akoupe is paved, expected in about 10 years.  Feasibility studies and detailed
engineering for the above works were prepared by consultants OTAM/OTH under
the First Highway Project.  Consultants SETEC have reviewed the recommended
alignment and design standards with a view to reducing costs.  Bids will be
called only after approval by the Bank of the consultants' recommendations;
the Government agreed to this arrangement at negotiations (para. 4.16).
Technical Assistance to MPWT
4.07      One of the principal institution-building recommendations of the
UNDP Transport Survey was for establishment of a Planning and Research Unit
to make proposals to the Minister on investment priorities, and to coordinate
investments with general policy in the modes, particularly between road and
rail along the north-south corridor. The Unit would also serve as a liaison
between the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning. The proposed project
provides for the services of two technical assistance experts over three years
to set up and staff the Unit, and to train local personnel as well as funds
for the overseas training of Ivorian staff.  The Government agreed at nego-
tiations that local staff will be assigned to the Unit as required.



- 15 -
4.08      The local civil engineering school created in 1961 was originally
intended to serve construction technicians, and was then upgraded to also
train engineers. However, despite financial and technical assistance pro-
vided by FAC, the school still has a very low output, primarily because the
training approach is not sufficiently comprehensive and therefore the school
is not much patronized. The proposed project provide technical assistance
to study: (i) total manpower requirements for civil engineers and other
skilled workers in both the private and public construction sectors; (ii) the
measures needed to produce the required numbers of such personnel; (iii) the
school's present and future capacity to meet these requirements; and (iv)
improvements needed in the curriculum to ensure achieving the desired quality
of instruction. The scope of the proposed analysis was discussed and agreed
with the Government at negotiations.
4.09      To help alleviate the present shortage of high- and middle-level
local personnel in DPW, the proposed project also provides overseas fellow-
ships for training of highway engineers and technicians. The exact number
and timing of fellowships were agreed at negotiations (Table 6), and trainees
will be selected during actual execution of the project, in agreement with
the Bank. In order to avoid the difficulties encountered three vears ago in
deciding on nominations and awarding lNDP fellowships financed under the
Transport Survey, candidates will be selected from DPW personnel below tile
management level or newly-recruited graduates in highway engineering. This
arrangement was bagreed with the Government at negotiations. It is possible
that UNDP may again provide funds for these fellowships, in which case the
allocation under the proposed Loan would be cancelled; the UNDP is being
consulted on its willingness to provide the necessary funds.
Equipment Purchase
4.10      The Engineering Division of DPW, through its programming and organi-
zation unit, is now establishing systematic procedures to collect and analyze
information necessary to monitor developments in the use and condition of the
road network. This information will provide a rational basis for preparing
annual maintenance and betterment programs, and will eventually also be use-
ful to the work of the Planning and Research Unit. To help the Engineering
Division with this task, the proposed project provide for the purchase of
traffic counters, laboratory equipment, and equipment needed for testing
pavement conditions.  The project also provides for the purchase of mobile
scales to assist the Government in enforcing axle-load restrictions. Details
of items to be purchased agreed with the Government at negotiations (Table 7).
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineerin
4.11      As discussed previously (para. 2.17), the UNDP Transport SurvTey
had recomDended an investment program for 1971-80, the first part of which
is already being implemented.  The remaining investments now need to De re-
examined, as well as any additional ones proposed by the Government. UNDP



- 16 -
has agreed in principle to finance the consulting services to execute the
required updating study with the Bank acting as executing agency. Draft
terms of reference have been prepared, and were agreed with the Government
at negotiations. The project provides for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering of about 300 km of east-west secondary roads; the sections for
study will be determined on completion of the Transport Survey updating, and
will be agreed following discussions between the Government and the Bank.
4.12      Under the Fourth Highway Project, consultants carried out a study
of feeder roads in cotton-growing areas in the north, and most of the improve-
ments recommended will be executed as part of the Cottong Areas Rural
Development Project approved in January, 1975; the works involve primarily
maintenance or betterment operations for which the required engineering can
be done during project execution. The proposed Fifth Highway Project now
provides for a complementary study of feeder roads in the rest of the country,
with consideration given to the institutional arrangements for administration
of these roads.
4.13      The proposed project also provides consulting services to carry
out the required economic and engineering studies on one of the most impor-
tant secondary roads in the north, Mankone-Tenigboue (66 km). This road is
presently a mere track, and detailed studies are required to determine the
most suitable standards and alignment for its improvement.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.14      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about US$69 million equivalent, of which about US$43 million are foreign
costs, and about US$13.4 million equivalent are taxes. Details of cost
estimates are as follows:



- 17 -
CFAF million               US$'000           Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Component
(%)
A.   Civil Works
- Pavement
strengthening  1,528   2,293    3,821  7,640  11,465  19,105    60
- Road cons-
struction       1,502   2,253    3,755  7,510  11,265  18,775    60
- Supervision
by consultants   102      408       510    510   2,040   2,550    80
Subtotal A             3,132   4,954    8,086 15,660  24,770  40,430
B.   Technical
Assistance to
MPWT (inclu-
ding fellowships,
engineering
school and
laboratory
studies)             27      108      135    135       540     675    80
C.   Equipment
Purchase             25      100      125    125       500     625    80
D.   Preinvestment
Studies              96      390      486    480   1,950   2,430    80
Subtotal A-D           3,280   5,552    8,832 16,400  27,760  44,160
E.   Contingencies
- Quantities
(10% on item
A)                  313      495      808  1,565   2,475   4,040
- Prices /1       1,622   2,547    4,169  8,110  12,735  20,845
Subtotal E             1,935   3,042    4,977  9,675  15,210  24,885
GRAND TOTAL            5,215   8,594   13,809 26,075  42,970  69,045    62
(rounded)                                    (26,000)(43,000)(69,000)
/1   Details in para. 4.15 below.



- 18 -
4.15      Costs for civil works are based on consultants' estimates taking ac-
count of bid results received in mid-1974 for similar works, and updated to
reflect expected prices in October 1975.  Costs for consulting services and
technical assistance are based on current unit prices appliea in ivory uOasL
and other West African countries.  Quantity contingencies for civil works are
allowed at an average of about 10%a of basic costs. Price contingencies for
both local and foreign costs have been calculated to take account of the
following inflation rates: (i) for the construction items, 16% in 1975,
14% in 1976 and 12% annually thereafter; and (ii) for the other items, 12%
in 1975, 10% in 1976 and 8% annually thereafter.
C.   Execution
4.16      MPWT will be responsible for execution of the project.  Consultants
for construction supervision, technical assistance, and feasibility studies
and detailed engineering, will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank; outlines of the proposed scope of all services were discussed
and agreed at negotiations.
4.17      Specifications and bidding documents for the construction items
have been prepared by DPW assisted by consultants SETEC and OTAN/OTH. The
works have been divided into two packages, one for pavement strengthening
works and one for new construction; each package is further divided into
separate contracts for supply of crushed stone and for construction. The
tender documents permit bidders to bid for a single one or for a combination
of the ocntracts abovementioned. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
This arrangement was agreed at negotiations.
4.18      Equipment for traffic counting, vehicle weight control, and pave-
ment surveys will be procured on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, with due regard to the need
for standardization. Suppliers will be required to train local personnel in
the use of new types of equipment.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.19      The Bank will finance the entire foreign exchange cost of the proj-
ect, estimated at about US$43 million and representing about 77% of total
project costs excluding taxes. The Government will provide all the local
costs of the project; this was confirmed at negotiations.
4.20      Loan proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 60% of total expenditures for construction contracts;
(b) 80% of total expenditures for consulting services and technical
assistance; and
(c) 100%, of the foreign costs of fellowships, and of the CIF costs
of equipment.



- 19 -
Table 8 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the Loan Account.
Any funds remaining in the account on completion of the project will be used
for additional preinvestment studies and technical assistance items closely
related to the objectives of the proposed project.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Economic growth in the Ivory Coast over the past decade has been
impressive despite extreme fluctuations in world market prices for primary
commodities. To sustain this growth, the Government has embarked on a pro-
gram of economic diversification, especially in the agricultural sector. The
success of this effort will depend largely on the Government's ability to eke
out from every region of the country all its available resources, and a vital
element to attaining this objective is the availability of reliable and
efficient transport. The Government also aims at achieving a more even dis-
tribution of income among various sectors of the population by spreading
the fruits of development well beyond Abidjan. Construction works under the
project are expected to result in cheaper, safer, and more reliable transport
for part of the rural population.
5.02      The proposed technical assistance to MPWT will provide a start
towards a major and much needed institution-building effort in sectoral
management. It will ensure the eventual capability of the Ministry to eval-
uate and coordinate transport investment proposals, and to formulate a firm
sectoral policy.
B.   Pavement Strengthening Program (200 km)
5.03      The road sections included under the proposed strengthening program
are located along the major north-south and northeast-southwest road axes,
and carry traffic levels ranging between 1200-2500 vpd. About 25% (50 km)
of the sections involved have deteriorated completely, and pavement damage
on the remaining sections results in high vehicle operating costs, low
operating speeds, and frequent accidents. The strengthening works envisaged
are aimed at arresting the progressive pavement deterioration and restoring
damaged sections to good condition, thus preventing the otherwise unavoidable
high cost of major reconstruction.
C.   Road Realignment and Construction
Anyama-Agboville road (45 km)
5.04      As part of the Government's current strategy to decentralize
industrial development from Abidjan, the town of Agboville located about
62 km from the capital, has been selected as the site for a proposed textile



- 20 -
mill. Operation of this mill will have the benefit of hastening integration
of Agboville's population into the monetized economy; however, realization
of this benefit will depend on availability of improved and rapid transport
between the two points. Present traffic on the road is about 530 vpd between
Anyama and Azaguie (about 20 km), and about 420 vpd between Azaguie and
Agboville (about 62 km); an additional 145 vpd are expected to be generated
on the latter section in the first year after road construction is completed.
Traffic is forecast to grow at about 8% p.a.
Azaguie-Adzope road (27 km)
5.05      This road is a section of the link from Abidjan to the important
agricultural area near Abengourou in the east; it is also the principal
trade connection between the capital city and the town of Kumasi in neighbor-
ing Ghana. Average traffic on the road is about 1,200 vpd. The works envi-
saged under the project will improve the most deteriorated sections of the
existing paved road.
5.06      The principal benefits from the proposed road strengthening and
construction works can be separated into three categories:
(i) savings in road maintenance costs;
(ii) lower transport costs for existing traffic; and
(iii) greater production in the area of influence of some of
the roads, measured in terms of generated traffic.
The savings in the first category go entirely to the Government, to be used
according to established priorities for development or other purposes. The
distribution of savings in vehicle operating costs for existing traffic is
difficult to determine, and is discussed in paras. 5.07-5.08 below. The
increased production that occurs as a result of cheaper and better transport-
ation adds to the national product, and to the development of the region.
5.07      Savings in vehicle operating costs are distributed among several
types of vehicles, depending on their share in total traffic. In the case
of passenger cars, the savings go entirely to their owners; while this group
is high on the income scale, the increase in real income resulting from the
savings is expected to have an impact on the growth of the economy. In the
case of taxis and mini-buses, the savings are distributed among owners and
passengers. In the first instance, the owners capture most of the savings;
however, part of these savings will be passed on to passengers.
5.08      As in the case of taxis and buses, the savings to trucks will be
distributed among owners and users, but the allocation of benefits among
these groups will depend on the future structure of the trucking industry, of
the production of goods, and of the marketing system. While there are large



- 21 -
numbers of trucks, the industry is not quite competitive (paras. 3.04-3.07),
and only some of the savings are expected to be passed on to producers and
consumers of goods transported. Of that portion which is transferred to
these groups (which have quite different average income levels), the amount
captured by each depends on the supply and demand conditions in each market;
it is therefore diffirult to determine the beneficiaries from the savings to
trucks. To the extent that producers are able to capture the savings in
transport costs, they will be encouraged to produce more for the market, and
will also increase their demand for goods produced elsewhere, thus stimulating
activity throughout the economy. To the extent that consumers benefit from
lower transport costs through lower prices, their real income will also be
increased, with a similar positive impact on the national economy.
5.09      The inputs used in the analysis and the results obtained are
detailed in Annex 2. The economic return for each project component is as
follows:
Investment Returns at Efficiency Prices
(M)
Anyama-Agboville                           21.9
Azaguie-Adzope                             27.8
Strengthening Program                      15.0
All Project Roads                          19.4
Table 9 shows the sensitivity of the above returns to alternative assumptions
of higher costs and lower benefits. The returns should be compared to an
opportunity cost of capital in the Ivory Coast estimated at 12%.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During Loan negotiations with the Government, the following items
were discussed and agreed:
(i)' that local staff will be assigned as required to the Planning
and Research Unit to be created within MPWT under the proposed
project (paras 2.16 and 4.07);
(ii) that the Government will consult and discuss in detail with
the Bank its proposed transport investment plans and any sub-
sequent modifications thereto: specifically, discussions will
be held annually in connection with the yearly updating of
the Five-Year Plan (para. 2.16);
(iii)  the Government will exchange views with the Bank on consultants
recommendations regarding road-user charges and on a program for
future action which the Government shall promptly carry out;



- 22 -
(iv)  to encourage development of small construction firms, consultants
presently carrying out the feeder road study will be asked to
program their construction for the possible participation of
emerging domestic contractors in executing improvement works
to be recommended (para. 3.19);
(v)  bids for construction of the roads Anyama-Agboville and Azaguie-
Adzope will be called only after approval by the Bank of the
consultants' recommendations (para. 4.06);
(vi)  the exact number and timing of overseas fellowships to be
awarded under the proposed project for training DPW highway
engineers and technicians; agreement was also reached that
candidates for fellowship awards will be selected from
personnel below the management level or newly-recruited
graduates in highway engineering (para 4.09);
(vii) details of equipment items to be purchased under the project;
procurement will be on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, with due
regard to the requirements of standardization (paras 4.10
and 4.18);
(viii) draft consultants' terms of reference for the transport plan
updating study (para 4.11);
(ix)  consultants for construction supervision, technical assistance,
and feasibility studies and detailed engineering, will be
employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; out-
lines of the proposed scope of all services were agreed at
negotiations (para 4.16);
(x) construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines (para 4.17); and
(xi)  the Government will provide all the local costs of the project
(para 4.19).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan to the Government of the
Ivory Coast in an amount of US$43 million on applicable current terms for
a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years.
July 25, 1975



Table 1
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHiAY PROJECT
Investments in the Transport Sector, l971-75
(CFAF millions)
Air
Highways     Railways     Ports    Transport   TOTAL
As recommended by UNDP
Study (maximum)             23,530       5,610       6,850     2,290        38,280
As foreseen in 1971_1975
Pian                        25,700       9,200       9,700     1,900        46,500
Pevised Plan (end 1973)     35,4k12     19,;79      16,017     6,762        77,690
Actual Ehpenditures
(1971-73)     14, 569       8,002       9,504     3,695        35,770
Source: Ministry of Planning, June 1974
November 1974.



Taole 2
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network, 1961-73
(km)
1961     1965      1969     1971      1972     1973
Paved roads              284       899    1,293    1,353    1,678    1,969
All-weather earth
and gravel roads   10,000   13,070   13,000   13,000   12,254   13,008
Unimproved tracks    14,600   18,500   20,000   20,000   22,133   23,238
TOTAL               24,884   32,469   34,293   34,353   36,065   38,215
Source:  Department of Public Works, June 1974
November 1974



Table 3
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration, 1965-72
('000 units)
1965         1970          1971           1972
Passenger Vehicles          33.3         59.o           73.2           82.7
Trucks and Pickups          21.2         32.3           35.6           37.0
Truck/Trailer
Combinations               2.1          3.6            4.O            4.7
Buses                        0.5           2.3           3.0            3.8
TOTAL                   57.1         97.2          115.8          128.2
Source: Directorate of Transport, June 1974
November 1974



Table 4
I-JORY COAST
FIFTH1. FHIGHWTAY PROJECT
Expenditures for Highways, 1968-72/
(CFAF millions)
1968       1969        1970        1971       1972
Administration
and overheads            467         520         555        664         819
Maintenance
financed from
- road fund            1,314       1,467       1,790      1,550       1,524
- general budget         $15         533         276        585       19072
1,829      2,000       2,066            2,13532,596
Construction             2,736       2,944       1,838      3,6?54$h/3/  5,6362/
TOTAL                  5h032                  4,459       6,453       9,0$1
j Excluding urban roads.
2/ Including road construction associated with Kossou Dam and San Pedro
port projects.
3/ Budgetary allocation only; expenditures may be spread over several years.
Source: Road User Tax Study, August 1974.
Department of Public Works, June 1974.
November 1974



Table 5
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHIAY PROJECT
Revenues from Selected Taxes on Fuel, 1967-72
(CFAF millions)
1967     1968      1969     1970      1971     1972
"Taxe Speciale"       2,204    3,351    3,529    3,692    3,650    4,899
"Taxe Specifique"    1,719    1,893    3,070    4,583    4,700    4,506
TOTAL               3,923       4      6,599    8,275 9,350    9.405
Source:  Directorate of Transport, June 1974.
November 1974



IVORY COAST
BIFTIh bi'IhVJAY PRUJh(CT
Table 6
Fellowshi ps
Duration (beginning during 1976)
(months)
To DGTP
Mechanic                                         12
Road E.ngineer                                   12
Road Engineer                                    12
To Planning and Research Unit
I Transportation Engineer/Planner                18
1 Transport Economist                            18



Table 7
IVORY OAST
FIFTH HIGHIAY PROJECT
L-ist of Equipment
5         Stationary Weigh Bridges
2         Mobile Weigh Bridges
20         Automatic Traffic Counters
1         Deflectometer
1         Sample Drill
1         CBR Press
1         Seismograph
1         Triaxial Tester
1         Penetrometer
1         Concrete Compression Tester (500 ton capacity)
1         Piezometer Menard
1         Rotary Drill
1         Sheer Testing Machine



Table 8
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-
IBRD Fiscal Year                                    Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                                      at end of Quarter
(US'OOO)
1975/76
December 31, 1975                                               hOO
March 31, 1976                                                3,860
June 30, 1976                                                 7,320
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                           10,760
December 31, 1976                                            13,820
March 31, 1977                                               18,370
June 30, 1977                                               22,910
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                          29,520
December 31, 1977                                           3L,4oo
Match 31, 1978                                              36,520
June 30, 1978                                               38,620
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                          40,740
December 31, 1978                                           43,000
1/  This schedule assumes that construction will start in late 1975
and be completed within 36 months.
Source: Mission estimates.
May 1975.



IVORY COAST                              Table 9
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis on Rates of Return
Economic Return
Pavement Strengthening Program                                  (%)
Best Estimate                                           15.0
Estimate with costs plus 20%
and benefits less 15%                                   9.4
Costs plus 20%                                          11.9
Benefits less 15%                                       12.2
Road Realignment and Construction
Best Estimate                                            24.5
Estimate with costs plus 20%
and benefits less 15%                                 16.6
Costs plus 20%                                           20.1
Benefits less 15%                                        20.5
*  Opportunity costs of capital = 1O
Source: Mission estimates
February 1975



Table l()
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGCHAY PROJECT
Annual Fuel Consumption for all Transport Modes, 1967-73
('000 tons)
Petrol          Gas-Oil           TOTAL
1967                     166.0           122.0            288.0
1968                     182.8           137.2            320.0
1969                    190.3            167.6            357.9
1970                     204.6           175.2            379.8
1971                     216.2           188.2            404.4
1972                     232.2           196.8            429.0
Average Annual
Growth Rate:             6.9%            10.1%             8.3%
Source: Directorate of Transport.
November 1974.



IVORY COAST                          Tablell
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Price Variation Indices in Ivory Coast
General indices used in the price variation formulae
Base 100 = 1969
May 1972    December 1972    October 1973    April 1974
Labor                          100            100              117             135
Industrial Products            135            141              160             200
Gas-Oil                        118            118              126             191
Bituminous Products            123            123              126             247
Cement                         107            108              106             172
Steel                          193            193              228             292
Effect of Above Indices on Major Highway Construction Items
May 1972    December 1972    October 1973    April 1974
Earth Works                    100            101              115             148
Crushed Stone Miterials        100           102               116             147
Bituminous Pavement            100            101               113             157
Structures                     100            101               115            147



Table 12
ITJGRY COAST
FIFTH HIGIHAY PRUJEC;T
Typical Ie;sign Standards for Different Road Types
Paved Roads
Main               Secondary-
Roads              Roads
Design speed                         80-100 kin/h        60-80 km,/h
Maximum grade
- norrial                   6%                   7%
- exceptional                765%                8%
Pavement width                           7 m                  6 m
Shoulder width                           2 m             1.5-2.5 m
Width of bridges (curb to curb)           7.5 m               7.5 m
Design axle load                        10 tons             10 tons
Sourcet  DPW.



IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Typical Road Construction and Maintenance Costs
(CFAF million)
Expected
Total Cost    Cost      Total Cost after    Type of   Expected Cost per km
Length    (Contract)   per km      Construction        Road      CFAF million  US$o000  Date of Award
Road Construction
Primary Roads
Bouake-Katiola              49         1,320        27           1,350            paved          28          120    Cept. 1972
Yabayo-Gagnoa               79         2,640        33            3,440           paved          44          180    May 1974
Man-Duekoue-Issia          120         6,58o        55            6,480           paved          5           230    July 1972
(Cost/linear                                (Cost/linear
Bridges                       (mi)                      meter)                                      meter)
Boubo                        90           140        1.6             190                           2.1          9    Oct. 1973
N1Zi                        180           180        1.0             250                          1.4           6    Oct. 1974
Road Strengthening                                                                                    (cost/km)
Major trunk roads           110         3,330        30            4,146            paved          38         158    Apr. 1974
Road Maintenance, including                 Cost/ iyear
routine and periodic operations         CFAFOOO   US$0OOO
Paved road:
Width = 7 m                             80        2.0
Width = 6 m                             420       1.8
Gravel road:
Width = 7 m
50 heavy vehicles/day           150       o.6
100          n                   330       1.4
Width = 6 m
50 heavy vehicles/day           140       o.6
100  it      n       t           290        1.2
H
Source: DPW
H~






ANNEX 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector
The Bank Group has helped finance five operations for the development
of transport in the Ivory Coast. Details of the projects and their present status
are as follows:
Loan 100-FR, US$7.5 million, 1954
1.        This Loan was made to the Office Central des Chemins de Fer de la
France d'Outre-Mer prior to the Ivory Coast achieving its independence. The
Loan helped finance the purchase of diesel locomotives for the Dakar (Senegal)-
Bamako (Mali) and Abidjan-Ouagadougou (Upper Volta) railways. The Loan has
been fully repaid.
Loan 524-IVC, US$5.8 million, 1968 (First Highway Project)
2.        This project consisted of: (i) construction of the Abengourou-Agnibilekrou
road (60 km); and (ii) feasibility studies and detailed engineering for about 700
km of roads. Construction under the project was satisfactorily completed in July
1971; completion of the detailed engineering was spread over the period 1970-74.
3.        During implementation of this project, the Bank Group also acted as
executing agency for a UNDP-financed Transport Survey which was carried out by
consultants SETEC in two phases: Phase I consisted of an overall survey of
transport requirements and identification of investment priorities in the
various modes. The principal recommendations concerning highways were that an
extensive program of primary road improvements should be undertaken, and that
steps should be taken to improve road maintenance and investment policy within
the sector. Phase II of the Survey included feasibility studies for the highest
priority roads, and a study of highway administration and maintenance. These
studies, together with the ones carried out under the First Highway Project,
provided the basis for planning subsequent highway projects described below.
Loan 761-IVC, US$20.5 million, 1971 (Second Highway Project)
4.        This project consisted of: (i) construction of the Man-Tssia road
with a branch from Duekoue to Guiglo (120 km); (ii) construction of the Bouake-
Katiola road (49 km); and (iii) detailed engineering for 300 km of roads.
5.        Construction work started in mid-1972.  Completion of the Man-Issia
road by contractor Garnoci (Germany/Italy) is expected by mid-1975 following an
initial five-month delay due to poor work organization, and to modification of
the original alignment after work had started. The modification was requested
by the Government and approved by the Board in 1973 through an amendment to the
Loan Agreement. Construction of the Bouake-Katiola road was satisfactorily
completed in July 1974 by contractors Solel/Boneh (Israel) and SONITRA (Ivory Coast).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.     Detailed engineering under the project included work for the
abovementioned realignment of the Man-Issia road which is now completed,
and for the Katiola-Ferkessedougou road. The Government has since decided
to drop the latter item from the project, and engineering and construc-
tion of the road, awarded on a negotiated basis, is now being financed
from budgetary allocations. In place of those engineering studies under
the project, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed, to use the
remaining funds to finance an updating of the UNDP Transport Survey, and
a general assessment of feeder road requirements throughout the country.
These studies are necessary to determine highway investment priorities
to be included in the Fifth National Development Plan (1976-80) now under
preparation. The Project had also provided for a road-user tax study
which is now completed.
Loan 837-IVC, US$17.5 million, 1972 (Third Highway Project)
7.     This project provided for: (i) implementation of a four-year highway
maintenance and betterment program; (ii) a first phase (110 km) of a
pavement strengthening program on major trunk roads, including partial re-
alignment and widening; (iii) reconstruction of the Boubo River bridge;
and (iv) a study of urban infrastructure development in Abidjan.
8.     Execution of the maintenance program is progressing satisfactorily
with technical assistance provided by consultants Louis Berger/BCEOM (US/France).
The program is focussed on (i) reorganization of DPW's Equipment Division
and of four regional pilot divisions; (ii) setting up of a programming and
organization unit within the Engineering Division; (iii) implementation of
a proper accounting system; and(iv) in-service training for highway mechanics
and foremen. The betterment program covering about 1,600 km of secondary
roads started in April 1974 following a five-month delay caused by late
delivery of equipment, and difficulties in selecting personnel for the high-
way brigades in charge of its execution. It is now doubtful that the entire
program can be executed under the project, because of the substantial price
increases which have occurred since December 1973.
9.     Current world-wide inflation has resulted in a 40% increase  in con-
struction costs for the first phase of the pavement strengthening program,
leading to an overrun over appraisal basic estimates of about US$1.5 million
which the Government will finance. Following a two-year delay as a result
of two unsuccessful biddings and also because of the Government's indecision
on construction of the proposed Abidjan-Sikensi-N'douci expressway, the
pavement strengthening works were finally started in early 1975. Construc-
tion of the Boubo River bridge by contractor SETAO (France) is nearing
completion. The urban development study being executed by BCEOM is pro-
gressing satisfactorily; the first phase of the study is complete, and
preparations are underway for the second phase.
Credit 406-IVC, US$765 million, 1973 (Fourth Highway Project)
l0o    This project consisted of: (i) construction of the Yabayo-Gagnoa road
(79 km); (ii) construction of the Ntzi River bridge; and (iii) a study of
feeder roads in cotton-growing areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
11.       The road construction contract has recently been awarded to a joint
venture of contractors COLAS (France) and SONAGECI (Ivory Coast), but due to
inflation, contract prices have exceeded appraisal basic estimates by about
US$800,000; this overrun will be financed out of the Government budget. Con-
struction of the Nlzi river bridge by contractor SETAO (France) is well underway.
The Government had decided in mid-1974 to doulble the bridge to four-lane standards
on the grounds that it would be the terminus of the proposed Abidjan-N'Douci express-
way; even though this decision is unjustified from both economic and financial view-
points, construction of the parallel bridge is now going ahead with financing from
the local budget. The cotton feeder road study was completed by consultants BCEOM
in early 1974, and the investments recommended are being implemented as part of
the recently approved Rural Development Project (Loan 1077-IVC, US$31 million,
January 1975).



ANNEX 2
Paga 1
IVORY COAST
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Analysis
I. PAVEENT STRENGTHENING PROGRAM
Traffic Composition and Savings from New Road (for all sections)
Vehicle Type          Percent in Traffic            User Savings
(CFAF per vehicle/kim)
404 VP                            16.6                       2.4
hh4 Taxi                          33.9                       2.4
Renault 1,400 kg                  15.5                       3.7
Total light vehicles              66.0                       2.7
Trucks
5-6 T                             11.6                       8.2
10 T                               5.8                      12.5
18-20 T                           10.8                      22.8
25-28 T                            5.8                      27.4
Total heavy vehicles              34.0                      16.9
A. Lot 5.: Pakobo-Toumodi (49.125 km, of which 82% is R1)
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost = Total CFAF 865.6 million, of which 288.4 million
in 1975, and 577.2 million in 1976.
- Economic Cost = Total CFAF 627.2 million, of which 209.1 million
in 1975, and 418.1 million in 1976.
Costs are divided into their foreign and domestic components; the former is
weighted by 1, and the latter by a conversion factor of 0.83 to remove the
effects of tariffs and convert all costs into border prices.  Full employment
is assumed, so labor is not shadow-priced.
* Rl = Paved Road, Good Condition.



ANIqEX 2
Page 2
Benefit Inputs
Benefits are in border prices, once taxes are excluded, since it is
assumed that all items are traded.
- Traffic
Normal Traffic: 2,455 vpd in 1977; 483 vpd in 1987.
Traffic Growth: 7.4%, 1977-1986;  3.8%, 1987-1996.
- Maintenance Cost Savings
Annual Maintenance, First Year Savings: CFAF 14 million
Periodic Maintenance Savings: OFAF 78 million in 1975, 1989, and 1996
Periodic Maintenance Costs: CFAF 78 million in 1988 and 1994
Economic Return:           14.2%
First Year Return:         18.0%
B. Lot 6: Toumodi-Yamoussoukro (35.873 km, of which 75% is RI)
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost = Total CFAF 600.9 million, of which 200.3 million
in 1975, and 400.6 million in 1976.
- Economic Cost = Total CFAF 435.2 million, of which 145.1 million
in 1975, and 290.1 million in 1976.
Benefit Inputs
- Traffic
Normal Traffic:   2,455 vpd in 1977;  483 vpd in 1987
Traffic Growth:  7.4%, 1977-1986;  3.8%, 1987-1996
- Maintenance Cost Savings
Annual Maintenance, First Year Savings:   CFAF 11 million
Periodic Maintenance Savings: CFAF 57 million in 1975, 1989 and 1996
Periodic Maintenance Costs: CFAF 57 million in 1988 and 1994
Economic Return:        21.h%
First Year Return:     23.2%



AITNEX 2
Page 3
C.  Lot 7:  PlC_xl . 7-Divo (314.L81 1im, of wl.ch 7Q6 is Ri1)
Cost InDuts
- Financial Cost = CFAF 815.5 million in 1977
- Economic Cost  = CFAF 590.8 million in 1977
Benefit Inouts
- Traffic
Normal Traffic:  1993 vpd in 1978, of w.hich 770,6 light, 23% heavy
vehicles
Traffic Growth:  5.1 % , 1978-1997
- Maintenance Cost Savings
Annual Maintenance, First Year Savings:  CFAF 15 million
Periodic Maintenance Savings:  CFAF 50 million in 1977, 1985 and 1993
Periodic Mulaintenance Cost: CFAF 50 million in 1984 and 1991
Economic Return:                      13.1%
First Year Return:                    13.4%
D.  Lot 8:  Divo-Lakota (35.948 km, of which 85 is Rl)
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost = CFAF 581.3 million in 1977
- Economic Cost = CFAF 421.2 million in 1977
Benefit Inputs
- Traffic
Normal Traffic:  1,571 vpd in 1978, of which 7a% light, 26% heavy
vehicles
Traffic Growth: 5.006, 1978-1997
- Maintenance Cost Savings
Periodic 11aintenarce Savings: CFAF 57 million in 1977
Periodic Maintenance Cost:  CFAF 57 million in 1993
Economic Return:                    13.6%
First Year Return:                  lO.5%



AMNEX 2
Page ,4
E. Lot 9:  ,i&ota-G-agnoa (44.458 km, of which 65% is Ri)
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost = CFAF 958.0 million in 1976
- Economic Cost = CFAF 694.l m.illion in 1976
Benefit TnDuts
- Traffic
Norr.al Traffic: 1,198 vpd in 1977
Traffic Growth: 5.2%0, 1977-1996
First Year Savings:  CFAF 46 million
-   intenance Cost Savings
Periodic Maintenance Savings:  CFAF 71 million in 1976
Periodic Maintenance Costs:  CFAF 71 million in 1992
Economic Return:                    lh.8%
First Year Return:                   11.7%
F. Total Project
Cost Tnputs
- Financial Cost = CFAF L88.7 mLilion in 1975, 1935.8 in 1976, and
1396.8 in 1977.
- Economic Cost = CFAF 354.2 million in 1975, 1402.2 in 1976, and
1012.0 in 1977
Benefit Inputs
- Savings in Transport Costs                    CFAF 170 million in 1977
CFAF 2h7 million in 1978
- Savings in Annual Maintenance Costs:          CFAF 25 million in 1977
CFAF 46 million in 1979
- Savings in Periodic Maintenance:              CFAF 107 million in 1977
Economic Return:                              15.0%
First Year Return:                            16.0%



ANNEX 2
Page 5
II. ROAD REALIGNMENT AND CONSTRUCTION
A. Abidjan - Agboville Road
(from Patte d'Oie to Agbovile, 44.9 km)
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost  =  Total CFAF 1722 million, of which 688.8
million in 1975, 688.8 million in 1976,
and 344.4 million in 1977.
- Economic  Cost  =  Total CFAF 1309 million, of which 505.7
million in 1975, 505.7 million in 1976,
and 252.9 million in 1977.
Benefit Inputs
- Traffic (1975)
1.  Fo' users of Anyama-Azaguie section:
Normal Traffic:          529 vpd
Generated Traffic:       121 vpd
Traffic Growth:          7.6% per yr., 1975-80
8.3%h per yr., 1980-85
8.896 per yr., 1985-90



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Traffic Composition and Savings from New Road*
Oid Road: 16 km of Rl and 4 km of R2
New Road: 16 km of Rl
Rl : Paved Road, Good Condition
R2: Paved Road, Poor Condition
Normal Traffic                   Generated Traffic
Percent     User Savings**    Percent        User Savingst'8
in         (CFAF per ve-       in          (CFAF per ve-
Vehicle Type              Traffic        hicle-km)        Traffic        hicle-km)
Private Car ............ ... ...  29                 19.L             48      |      9.7
Taxi  ..........*..*****.*,           37             32.3             11            16.2
icks (1-4 T) ...............          9             40.2              2            20.1
nTricks (6-10 T) ..............       22             81.3             30            4o.7
Semi-trailers and other
Trucks ......................          3            11L.8             9            70.9
A11 vehicles                         100             43.             100            25-5
* These figures represent the values in the first year only; changes in subsequen-t years hav
been taken into account in the benefit stream.
iPk From shorter distance (4 kIn)
2. For users of Azagaie-Agboville section:
Normal Traffic:       4l4 vpd
Generated Traffic:   121 vpd
Traffic Growth:       7.3% per year, 1975-1960
8.1% per year, 19Q8O1g5o
8.3% per year, 1985-1990



Traffic Composition and Savings from New Road*
Old Road    16 km of Rl, 4 km of R2, and 42 km of Ti
New Road    52.8 km of Rl
RI    Paved Road, Good Condition                R2      Paved Road, Poor Condition
Ti     Earth Road
Normal Traffic              Generated Traffic
Percent           User Savings          Percent              User Savings
Vehicle Type           in          (CFAF Per vehic le-.m'    Ta in           (CFAF per vehicle-!-m)
Traffic                                 Trfi
From         From                     From               From
Improved     Shorter                  Improved           Shorter
Road       Distance                   Road             Distance
(36.8 km)    (9.2 km)
Private Car             28               4.5          22.1      48             2.3               11.1
Taxi                    30               4.6         34.7       11             2.3               17.4
Trucks (1-4 T)           9               7.2         44.1        2             3.6               22.1
Trucks (6-10 T)         28              24.8         94.2       30            12.4               47.1
Semi-Trailers &
Other Trucks             5              62.1         179.4       9            31.1
All vehicles           100              13.4          56.0     100             8.0               29.8
* These figures represent the values in the first year only; changes in subsequent years have )een taken   m'
into account in the benefit stream.                                                                             CD



ANNEX 2
Page 8
-'iaintenance Cost Savings
(in CFAF Millions)
1975      1980       1985       1990
Cost on old road                    20.6       23.6       28.5       37.3
Cost on new road                    26.6       26.6       26.6       26.6
Savings                              -6.0      -3.0       +1.9      +10.7
Economic Return:           21.9%
First Year Return:         17.h%
B. Adzope Road
(from Anyama to PK 48.9 of Adzope Road, 27.3 man)
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost = Total CFAF 1377 million, of which 550.8 million in
1975, 550.8 million in 1976, and 275.4 million in
1977.
- Economic Cost  = Total CFAF1011.0 millionof which4044. million in
1975, ho4.4 million in 1976, and 202.2 million in
1977.
Benefit Inputs
- Traffic (1975)
1.  For users of Anyama-Adzope section:
Normal Traffic:                    1,214 vpd
Generated Traffic:                 None
Traffic Girowthl:                  5.8%o per year, 1975-1980
6.40/o per year, 1980-1985
6.1% per year, 1985-1990



AMWNX 2
Page9
Traffic Composition and Savings from New Road*
Old Road : 29.6 km of R2
New Road : 27.6 km of Ri
User Savings
Percent          (CFAF per vehiclekin)
Vehicle Type           in             From             From
Traffic        Improved          Shorter
Road           Distance
(27.6 km)         (2 km)
Private Car             33              2.1              19.4
Taxi                    22              2.5              32.3
Trucks (1-4 T)           6              3.7              40.2
Trucks (6-10 T)         29             13.3              81.3
Semi-trailers &
Other Trucks            10             28.6             1h1.8
All vehicles           100              8.3              53.7
* These figures represent the values in the first year only; changes
in subsequent years have been taken into account in the benefit stream.
2. For users of Anyama-Azaguie-Agboville section:
Normal Traffic :                         529  vpd
Generated Traffic:                       None
Traffic Growth:                          7.996 per yr., 1975-80
8.7 per yr., 1980-85
9.10t per yr., 1985-90



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Traffic Composition and Savings from New Road"
Old Road:  23.7 km of R2
New Road:  16 Im of Rl and 4 km of R2
User Savings
Percent
Vehicle Type              in           .CF'AF per vehicle-,kM)
Traffic         From           From
Improved      Shorter
Road        Distance
(716km)       (3.7 kmn)
Private Car                  29             2.1          19.i
Taxi                         37             2.5          32.3
Trucks (1-4 T)                9             3.7           0.2
Trucks (6-10 T)              22            13.3          81 .3
Semi-trailers and
Other Trucks                  3           28.6          141.8
All vehicles                100             5.6          43.4
* These figures represent the values in the first year only; changes
in subsequent years have been taken into account in the benefit stream.
Economic Return:                   27.8%
First Year Return:                22.8%



ANNEX 2
Page 11
C. Abidjan-Agboville and 4uJzope Roads
Cost InDuts
-Financial Cost = Total CFAI -10? million, of which 12)b0 million in
1975, 12h0 million in 1976, and 620 million in 1977.
-Economic Cost  = Total CFAF 2275 million, of which 910 million in
1975,910 million in 1976, and 455 million i-n 1977.
Benefit Inpuits
-Savings in transDort costs:          CFAF 412 million in 1975
-Savings in maintenance costs:        CFAF - 6 million in 1975
-Total First Year Savings:            CFAiF 406 million in 1975
Economic Return:                     24.5%
First Year Return:                   19.6%
Vehicle Operating Costs
(CFAF per vehicle/kin)
Passenger           Trucks   Trucks   Semi-trailers
Cars      Taxis  (1-4 T)  (6-10 T) & Other Trucks
Modern Paved Road (R1)           17.3      29.8      36.5     68.0         113.2
Old Paved Road (R2)              19.4      32.3      40.2     81.3         141.8
Modern Earth Road (T1)           22.1      34.7      44.1     94.2         179.4
l



IBRD 11279R
2 2                                                                       JANVAky
U  n      Al
n                                                                                                HIG W Y PRUECT  A
A i 4
a
FLFTHE fifjGR" .    3 E C T
NET                                A
T. 1k.-                                                                                                                           nn   :,
A_
7 2:-:,
t
U
4A444 AA
0 ... gdo                                                  U.;P c:Ap  VIR ml'
VA---
HMI
ESSEDOUGOU
A                                                                                                                                    RK
J,
eJ               ikah,,
r
Di.-
ui
ka)l,
T
Tonigboue,
IOLA
EGUE
BIANKOUMA
To
OUAkE
v
r7-
ANg                    N                                                                         OW
a
oue e
f                                                           I NAT
PAR                                       K.   y ID-          B.a.                                         Agribil
AWLak,59
D,,4                                                                             --aukr
Al
le,"s                                                                                                                              OUROU
pi'T
Bmg                                 N1abI6
M.                           N                             tT
OUTPQ,
0                                                                                                                     kouP4           A
-k                                                                                    l'.  ,  VU3111
AGNOA              v                                                             I -
zop                                           p
ay.                                                                                                                                          2,
W.=
A      LLE
nguiW       +0 l'o h'               I"
Yo0o.,             Anyc,a    Abcbo A160
BOISSO
'OIIT
7      A FR I C A(/
A T Z A Iv r  c                                     E A /V
by ih,
zz, %-k od 1.                                                                                                                                      I                              I



