Report No. 277-GH                                                                      FILE  COllPY
Appraisal of
Livestock Development Project
Ghana
May 28, 1974
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Iniernational Development Association
This report was prepared for offifial tise only by the Bank Group. It mav not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group d:)es not accept responsibility
tror thie act ur-acy or completeness of the report



CURRLiCY EQUIVALS
US$1           -         C 1.1538
C 1           "         US$0.8667
WEIGHTS AND) ELASURES
1 acre             -         3.405 hectares
I mile             -         1.609 kilometers
1 ton              -         2,240 lb - 1.016 metric tons
ABBREVIATION
The Company   -   Ghana Livestock Company, Limited
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   ................................   i-iv
I.      INTRODUCTION   ...........................................                                            1
II.       BACKGROUND  .............................................                                             1
A.      General   ...........................................                                        1
B.   The Livestock Sector ..............................                                             2
General  ......................................                                     2
The Cattle Industry .................   2
Government Services, Training and Research  ...    3
Animal  Health  .................................                                   4
Other  Development  Prolects   ...................                                  4
Government  Policy  ............................                                    5
III.       TIE  PROJECT   ............................................                                           5
A.  Description .......................                                                              5
B.   Detailed Features .................................                                             6
The Project Areas ............................                                      6
The Ranches ..................................                                      7
Privately Owned Herds .................                                             9
Training  ......           ............              ...................           10
Project  Preparation  ...........                   ..        .............        10
C.      Organization  and  Management   .........                      ..        ............       10
The  Company   ..................................                                  10
Board  and  Senior  Management   ..................                                11
Ranch  Staffing  ...............................                                   11
Dealings  with  Private  Farmers   ..... ..                         .........      12
Start-Up  Arrangements   .........                  ..         .............       12
Reviews of Company Policies and Results ......   12
D.      Accounts  and  Audit  ..............                    ..        ................          13
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ..............   13
A.      Project  Costs   ..........                    ...........................                  13
B.  Financing . .........................................  15
C.      Disbursement   ...........                    ...........................                   16
D.      Procurement  ...........                     ............................                   17
E.      Credit  to  Farmers   ........                     .........................                17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. F. M. Crowe, H. Ochs and J. Leblanc, which visited Ghana in February
and March, 1973.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.  PRODUCrION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS  .....   18
A.  Production .......     .................................   18
B.  Mark;ets  .......................................................  18
C.  Prices ............................................   19
D.  Financial Benefits ......    ...................       21
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................. ...   22
VII.  ASSURANCES OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............. ...   23
ANNEXES
1.  The Cattle Industry
2.  The Economic Price of Beef
3.  Ghana Livestock Company Ltd - Cattle Prices
4.  Ghana Livestock Company Ltd.
Table 1: Herd Projections - Pong Tamale
Table 2: Herd Projections - Tadzevu
Table 3: Herd Projections - Branm
Table 4: Investment Costs and Phasing - Pong Tamale
Table 5: Investment Costs and Phasing - Tadzewu
Table 6: Investment Costs and Phasing - Branam
Table 7: Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock Sales
and Purchases - Pong Tamale
Table 8:                - Tadzewu
Table 9:                - Branam
Table 10: Ranch Operating Costs - Pong Tamale
Table 11:                      - Tadzewu
Table 12:                      - Branam
Table 13: Adjustment of Base Prices to January 1974 Levels
Table 14: Ranch Operating Statements
Table 15: Head Office Investments and Expenses
Table 16: Profit and Loss Statements
Table 17: Summary Balance Sheets
5 Table 18: Cash Flow Statement
Appendix 1: Notes on the Calculation of the Projections
5.  Private Farmers
Table 1: 10 Private Farmers - Herd Projections
Table 2: 10 Farmers - Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases
Table 3: Private Cattle Herd (250 Head) - Investments,
Operating Costs and Revenues
Table 4: 50 Private Farmers - Cash Flow



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
6.   Project Cost and Financing
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
8.   Government Cash Flow
9.   Financial and Economic Rates of Return
Table 1: Financial Rates of Return Calculations
Table 2: Economic Rates of Return Calculations
Appendix 1: Notes on the Financial and Economic Rates of Return
MAP






GRANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Backgrouni
i.        flThis report appraises a livestock development project in Ghana for
which an IDA credit of US$2 million is proposed. The objective would be to
create the beginnings of a modern cattle industry. A newly formed company
would take over two existing ranches and a maize farm which it would expand
and develop into three commercial/breeding fattening ranches. The company
would help local farmers to increase the productivity of their own herds with
improved breeding stock, credit and technical advice. By demonstrating the
profitability of good management practices, it would stimulate the interest
of cattle owners, private investors and the commercial banks. It would pro-
vide experience of integrated livestock and crop production and develop means
of reaching small cattle owners.
ii.       Between 1961 and 1971 annual beef consumption in Ghana fell from
24,500 tons to less than 17,000 tons; annual consumption per capita fell
even more sharply, from 7.9 lbs to 4.3 lbs with the growth in population
from 6.9 to 8.8 million. Demand is strong, however, and is evidenced by
shortages of meat for sale and rapidly rising prices in spite of Government
controls. Forecasts of annual consumption by 1980 range from 25,000 tons
to 39,000 tons. Imports, which have declined sharply in recent years, still
account for about half of total beef consumption. Recently, however, severe
droughts threaten Ghana's sources of supply in neighboring countries and,
in the longer term, West Africa as a whole has little prospect of achieving
self sufficiency in meat. In any event, Ghana's foreign exchange position
precludes any major expansion of imports. There is, therefore, a market for
any foreseeable increase in local production.
iii.      There have been serious obstacles to the development of a commer-
cial livestock industry. The quality of the national herd is not high and
farmers lack both the technical knowledge and the access to credit which
would enable them to improve it. There is little experience of livestock
development projects. The overvaluation of the Cedi and retail price
controls (even though ineffective) do not encourage local production.
iv.       On the other hand, large areas of the country, presently unused, are
suitable for cattle raising. The national herd (mainly West African Short-
horn) is estimated at about 700,000 head. The veterinary service covers
all the important cattle areas and has brought the principal epidemic
diseases under control; and some experimental data are available on improv-
ing local cattle through selection and crossbreeding. The Government owned
State Farms Corporation and the Ministry of Agriculture's Animal Husbandry



- ii -
Division have built up improved herds on a small but significant scale.
The Bank of Ghana and the Agricultural Development Bank both plan to under-
take livestock projects; and the commercial banks, cattle dealers and
livestock owners are interested in the possibilities of commercial production.
Government is anxious to provide a sound basis for the growth of the indus-
try and appears to be ready to take account, in its price control policies,
of the need for incentives to production.
v.   The proposed project was identified by the Ministry of Agriculture and
the feasibility study, financed by France, was carried out by SEDES/IMVT.
There was close cooperation with PM{A at all stages. The project was
appraised by an IDA Mission in February/March 1973.
Project Description
vi.       The project would produce improved breeding stock and slaughter
cattle, and would comprise:
(a)  thwe rehabilitation and expansion of two existing ranches and one
maize farm, taken over from Government, as breeding/fattening
ranches. The main developments would include: land clearing,
fencing, watering facilities, improved pastures and the
purchase of breeding cattle;
(b) the improvement of some 50 privately owned herds, initially of
about 100 head each, in the areas surrounding the ranches.
The owners would be provided with technical advice and finance
for improved breeding stock, and, where necessary, for spray
races, fencing materials, land clearing and pasture improvement;
(c) the training of Ghanaian managers; and
(d) the identification of further ranch sites and the preparation
of a second stage project.
vii.      A newly formed enterprise, the Ghana Livestock Company Ltd., would
carry out the project. The Ghana Commercial Bank, Barclays Bank of Ghana
and Standard Bank, Ghana, which have ample liquid funds, would subscribe
for shares and debentures and provide overdraft facilities and the Agricul-
tural Development Bank would subscribe for shares and debentures. Government
would be issued shares and debentures in exchange for the assets taken over
from the State Farms Corporation and the Ministry of Agriculture. Although
the banks would together hold a majority of the shares, Government would
have the controlling interest through its ownership of the Ghana Commercial
Bank and the Agricultural Development Bank.
viii.     The senior management of the company would comprise:  Managing Direc-
tor; Chief Accountant and three Ranch Managers who would also be responsible
for dealings with surrounding farmers. These posts would be internationally
recruited and it is likely that expatriates would be required for two of them.



- iii -
ix.       The project is not expected to encounter serious technical diffi-
culties. The standards assumed in the projections are judged to be capable
of being achieved by trained Ghanaian management and farmers, and take
full account of the current lack of experience of commercial cattle pro-
duction in the country.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
x.        The total project cost is estimated at US$4.5 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$2.0 million, including contingencies of US$1.1 mill-
ion. The financing would be provided as follows: IDA US$2.0 million; Govern-
ment US$0.6 million (representing the estimated value of the assets taken over
by the Company); Banks US$0.9 million; Company's retained income US$0.9 mil-
lion, and; private cattle owners' contributions US$0.1 million.
xi.       The IDA credit of US$2.0 million would be on standard terms to the
Government and would finance 53% of all project costs during the first four
years of the six-year development period, the equivalent of the total foreign
exchange costs, or 44% of total project costs, including the assets taken
over. Government would onlend about 01.8 million (US$1.52 million) to the
Company at 8% for a term of 16 years, including six years of grace and would
utilize the proceeds of the credit to finance directly the cost of preparation
of a second livestock project (US$70,000) and to defray the cost of training
Ghanaians overseas (US$20,000). The sum of US$390,000 would be held as a
contingency reserve. The banks would provide finance by way of equity con-
tributions of C600,000 (US$520,000), the purchase of 0 200,000 (US$173,000)
of 8% debentures and overdraft facilities at 9% rate of interest. Loans to
private farmers would be made through the Company, which would finance 80%
of investment costs, the farmers contributing the other 20%.
xii.      Disbursements of the IDA credit to Government would be made as
follows in the case of Company expenditures:
(a) 60% of the cost of investment in infrastructure, equipment
and breeding stock (US$993,000);
(b) 60% of the loan to private farmers (lJS$262,000) and
(c)  100% of the costs of expatriate salaries, excluding income
tax (US$267,000).
Disbursements of the credit would be made to Government for 100% of the costs
of project preparation and overseas training (US$91,000).
xiii.     International competitive bidding, in accordance with IDA guidelines,
would be used for all procurement contracts over US$50,000 for the following
goods and services: fencing materials, motor vehicles and other mechanical
and electrical equipment (about US$500,000) and contractors' services for
works such as land clearing, buildings, firebreaks and water supplies (about
US$700,000). Locally advertised competitive bidding procedures would be used



- iv -
for contracts of less than US$50,000 (aggregating about'US$350,000), except
for small replacements and items whose low cost would not justify such
procedures. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference
in evaluating bids; there are no applicable regional preferences.
xiv.      International competitive bidding would not be practicable for the
procurement of cattle (US$1.0 million), as the breeds suitable for Ghanaian
conditions can only be obtained locally through the traditional trading system
or through negotiated Government-to-Government contracts, from other West
African countries.
xv.       The services of expatriate personnel amd consultants, and overseas
training would be arranged according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
Economic Benefits
xvi.      The new company would build up herds totalling some 14,000 head on
about 75,000 ac, of which about 4,700 ac would be cultivated with maize and
high yielding fodder crops. At full development, the annual output of the
company's three ranches and of the surrounding privately owned herds (whose
productivity is expected to treble) would be about 950 breeding heifers, 600
male yearlings for breeding or fattening, 1,000 tons of carcass meat, and 2,000
tons of maize.
xvii.     The project would improve supplies of meat and maize for Ghanaian
consumers and, at full development, lead to foreign exchange savings of
about US$0.9 million annually. It would raise the quality of cattle and
the standards of management in the areas surrounding the ranches. Valuable
experience would be gained of pasture improvement, crossbreeding, feeding
and the integration of livestock production with farming. The training of
management and the participation of the commercial banks would provide a
sound base for the growth of commercial cattle production in Ghana. The pro-
ject would, therefore, have important unquantifiable benefits, deriving from
its pilot or demonstration nature.
xviii.    The financial rates of return for the new company and for the parti-
cipating livestock owners are estimated at 14% and 17% respectively.
xix.      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 12%.
This estimate takes into consideration all costs, overseas training, and physi-_
cal contingencies. Costs have been adjusted so as to: (a) exclude duties,
subsidies and fiscal taxes other than income tax; and (b) take account of
the estimated shadow exchange rate of the Cedi by adding an adjustment equal
to 50% of foreign exchange costs. No adjustments have been made to cattle
prices, which are based on those ruling in the free market and are consistent
with the estimated economic price derived from international and regional
prices and the shadow rate of exchange.
xx.       The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$2.0 million.



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ghana has requested an IDA Credit to help
finance a livestock development project which would create the beginnings
of a modern cattle industry. Three ranches, managed by a limited liability
company, would be involved, together with about 50 farmers in areas sur-
rounding the ranches.
1.02      The project was identified by the Ministry of Agriculture and
the feasibility study, financed by France, was carried out by SEDES/IMVT.
There was close cooperation with PMWA at all stages.  An appraisal mission,
comprising Messrs. F. M. Crowe, H. Ochs and J. Leblanc, visited Ghana from
February 19 to March 18, 1973. This report is based on their findings.
1.03      There have been three IDA Credits for agriculture in Ghana -
Fisheries Project (163-GH) in 1969, Eastern Region Cocoa (205-GH) in 1970,
and Sugar Rehabilitation Project (354-GH) in 1973 - and three more projects,
involving rice, cotton and oil palm, were recently appraised.  The Fisheries
Project was recently cut short, for various reasons including poor manage-
ment, and Government has agreed to cancel the remaining proceeds of the Credit,
except for those funds required to complete procurement in process and the
ports studies. IDA is, however, working with Government to plan a comprehen-
sive study of the fishing industry, which is a major source of protein for
Ghana and which appears capable of expansion and improvements in efficiency.
The progress of the Cocoa Project is satisfactory. The Sugar Rehabilitation
Project became effective on May 31, 1973 and early indications of progress
are very satisfactory.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ghana has an area of about 92,000 sq mi. and a population of some
9 million, increasing at about 2.5% a year. Two-thirds of the people live
in the humid Southern half of the country; and of the total population,
about one-third live in towns with 9,000 or more inhabitants. GNP increased
by about 2.5% annually - about 2% in real terms - from 1960 to 1970, rising
to US$2.5 billion. Although per capita GNP declined in real terms over the
past decade, to US$285, it remains one of the highest in West Africa.



-2-
2.02      Agriculture, forestry and fisheries employ 60% of the population
and contribute about 40% of GNP; cocoa accounts for over 70% of export
earnings, timber for about 11%, and gold and diamonds for most of the
balance. Livestock is still relatively unimportant, accounting for only
about 5% of the value of agricultural production.
2.03      Foreign trade plays a major role in the economy, representing
some 17% of GNP. Though there is some current easing of an acute foreign
exchange constraint, Ghana has had serious foreign exchange deficits; these
deficits were worsened by the overvaluation of the Cedi and a growing burden
of external debt service. In these circumstances, strong demand for
imported consumer goods created inflationary pressures which have been
exacerbated by Government budgetary deficits and the frequently imprudent
financing of a wide range of production and commercial activities under
public control. Government's measures to deal with these problems include
import controls, encouraging local production of food and raw materials,
and making Government enterprises financially self-reliant. So far, only
the import controls have made a significant impact.
B. The Livestock Sector
General
2.04      Poultry is the most developed among the livestock industries due
to Government promotion of commercial production, mainly on the Accra plain,
alongside the traditional backyard poultry farming. The total output was
last estimated in 1970 at 6,500 tons of meat. Pig production is scattered
throughout the country, generally under backyard conditions. There are
115,000 pigs in total, with an annual offtake rate of about 70%, yielding
some 2,000 tons of pork per year. The development of these two industries
is restrained by their competition with human nutritional needs and by the
high prices of concentrate feed. Furthermore, some sections of the popula-
tion do not eat pork. Consumption of sheep and goat meat is met through
local supply of some 2,500 tons and imports of some 1,500 tons. The cattle
industry is described below and in further detail in Annex 1.
The Cattle Industry
2.05      Ghana's cattle herd is estimated at roughly 700,000 head.  The
majority (about 85%) are of the trypanosomiasis-tolerant West African Short-
horn type; pure N'Damas and Zebus represent only about 5% of the total and the
remaining 10% are Sanghas, a crossbreed between taurin cattle and Zebus such
as the White Fulani or the Sokoto Gudali. The few commercial herds and the
breeding stations of the Ministry of Agriculture, however, have much higher
proportions of N'Damas, Zebus and Sanghas. More than 80% of Ghana's cattle
are in the Northern and Upper regions (Map), another 16% are in the Accra
plain and the remainder are scattered throughout the forest area.



2.06      Only about 7% of the national herd is managed commercially, mostly
around Accra. Traditional cattle owners seldom sell any but culled cows and
frequently leave their cattle to be tended by hired Fulani herdsmen. This
dependence upon the Fulani has delayed the development of animal husbandry
which, as a result, is almost entirely divorced from crop farming. The stan-
dards of cattle management are generally poor and, at best, moderate: there
are virtually no fenced or improved pastures and supplementary feeding is
rarely provided. Nutrition, especially during the 4-6 month dry season, is
deficient in both quantity and quality. As a consequence, productivity is
low: typically, in traditional herds the calf weaning rate is 40%, adult
cattle mortality is 5%, and it takes about five years for a steer to mature.
Under these circumstances, the national herd has an annual offtake of 7%, or
about 50,000 head equivalent to 5,000 tons of carcass meat. In 1971, this
output met only half of Ghana's progressively declining beef consumption (para
5.03), and the balance had to be imported at a foreign exchange cost of about
US$7.8 million equivalent.  The annual herd offtake could be greatly increased
through the adaptation to local conditions of modern herd and pasture manage-
ment practices that have been successful elsewhere in the world under similar
ecological conditions. Such improved practices could increase weaning rates
to 65-75%, decrease adult cattle mortality to 2-3%, and the age of steers at
slaughter to 3-1/2-4 years.
2.07      At present, the principal obstacles to improvements are the lack
of knowledge and experience in modern production techniques under local con-
ditions. The proposed project has been designed to help gain this knowledge
and experience as well as to make a direct contribution to increased output.
Government Services, Training and Research
2.08      The Ministry of Agriculture has two Divisions concerned with
livestock. The Animal Health Division provides free veterinary services
to livestock owners and operates three quarantine stations for imported
cattle; it operates a training center for veterinary assistants at Pong
Tamale. The Division is adequately staffed, provides good cover through-
out the country, and is well managed. As a result, the principal epidemic
diseases are under control. The Animal Husbandry Division is responsible
for livestock extension work. It also operates 10 livestock stations
where it breeds improved bulls for sale to farmers at subsidized prices.
The Division lacks adequate funds and consequently has not been able to
do very much toward improving the cattle industry.
2.09      Training in animal husbandry is provided by the University of
Ghana at Legon, and the University of Science and Technology in Kumasi;
each turns out between 5 and 10 graduates a year. Professional veterina-
rians are still trained abroad. The Pong Tamale training center turns out
10-30 veterinary assistants each year. While the local training is satis-
factory from an academic point of view, there is little or no opportunity
in Ghana for obtaining practical experience and training in commercial
cattle production.



- 4 -
2.10      Research in animal production, including crossbreeding and
nutrition, is carried out by the universities and by the Animal Research
Institute of Ghana. Some work is also done by the Animal Husbandry
Division itself. Unfortunately, though much of the research is of a
high standard and would be useful for the proposed project, the means for
conveying new knowledge to cattlemen have not been effective, and conse-
quently it has had little impact.
Animal Health
2.11      The most important restraint on beef production in Ghana is the
tsetse-fly, which, in varying degrees, infects most of the country. However,
acute trypanosomiasis is rare because most of the cattle are trypano-tolerant
and graze only in areas with little or no tsetse-challenge. Provided grazing
areas are suitably located and curative treatments used, trypanosomiasis is
not considered an insurmountable obstacle to developing a cattle industry,
even with non-trypano-tolerant cattle. But the disease could become a serious
danger for an expanding cattle industry until tsetse flies are eradicated or
more effective prophylactic drugs or a vaccine are found. Meanwhile, breeding
enterprises in tsetse-areas will have to rely on trypano-tolerant cattle, al-
though cattle fattening during a limited period, with the help of prophylactic
treatments would be technically feasible there.
2.12      Internal parasites, brucellosis, and contagious bovine pleuropneu-
monia are the main diseases in the country. The Animal Health Division
started a vaccination campaign against the last two diseases in 1972 and
hopes to bring them under control in the near future. Tick-born diseases,
foot and mouth disease, anthrax, rabies, and tuberculosis are present but
are not serious obstacles to development. There is little or no rinderpest
in the country. Skin diseases, especially streptothricosis, are present
throughout the country. Zebu-type cattle are very susceptible to these
diseases, but the West African Shorthorn and N'dama cattle have high
resistance. There is no proven control for streptothricosis, although regular
prophylactiq treatments such as dipping and spraying and treatment with anti-
biotics are used effectively as palliatives; research is, however, progressing
in the development of a vaccine.
Other Development Projects
2.13      The Bank of Ghana has employed Gunn Rural Management (Australia) to
prepare aa feasibility study for, and to assist with the management of a ranch
on the AAccra plains. The project, which is designed to demonstrate the feasi-
bility of modern cattle production in that area, will develop a total herd of
3,150 head on 13,500 ac, producing 730 head of slaughter cattle annually. The
ranch will operate commercially, but it is recognized that high management and
consultancy costs will give it a low financial rate of return; the project
should, however, have useful demonstration and training effects in the only
area of Ghana where commercial cattle production has so far developed.



2.14      The Agricultural Development Bank has interesting plans, in prelim-
inary draft, for the integrated development of a rural village. Although the
main emphasis would be on cash and food crops, the project also includes a
cooperative ranch.
2.15      The Agricultural Development Bank lends for cattle production
by private borrowers, but on a very small scale. At the end of November
1972, six loans totalling C 225,000 had been approved, of which t 96,000
had been utilized; of C 35,000 due for repayment, C 24,000 was in arrears.
Government Policy
2.16      While there is no clear-cut Government development policy for
the cattle industry, the industry is affected by Government's general
economic and agricultural policies, aspects of which are frequently incon-
sistent with one another. The confusion of objectives reflects differing
political pressures caused by inflation, the shortage of foreign exchange,
and desires to improve rural conditions and for self-reliance.
2.17      The need to curb price increases has led Government to maintain
an exchange rate which overvalues the Cedi, and to impose price control on
beef (para 5.06). Both of these policies discourage local producers, and
price controls have worsened the shortage of beef. Again, the desire to
help farmers has led to a cheap money policy for agriculture: the official
policy is that the lending rate to agriculture should be 6% per annum. As
commercia:l lending rates (at appraisal) were in the range of 9-14%, and
upwards of 7% is paid on time deposits, this policy has had the result that
the commercial banks, which have ample funds, are lending little or nothing
to farmers or livestock owners. At the same time, however, large sums of
money are being channelled through the Agricultural Development Bank to
State corporations with, at best, doubtful prospects, and for projects
which have been inadequately prepared and appraised.
2.18      There is no doubt that the development of an efficient cattle
industry is in Ghana's interest and within her capacity. Government is an-
xious to obtain better information than hitherto about the conditions in which
cattle production can develop and about how the needs of the industry are to
be weighed against competing claims. It is hoped that this project, and the
information oobtained from it, will help policy-making for the industry, en-
courage local investment and train some of the managers who will be needed for
further development.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The project has been designed to provide a basis for the develop-
ment of a commercial cattle industry in Ghana. A company (para 3.19) would
be formed to manage three commercial ranches and to assist the development



-6-
of smaller private herds in the areas surrounding these ranches. The project
would produce improved breeding stock and slaughter cattle, and would
comprise:
(a)  the development of three breeding/fattening ranches by rehabili-
tating and expanding two existing ranches and a maize farm, which
would be taken over from Government. The main developments would
include: land clearing, fencing, watering facilities, improved
pastures and the purchase of breeding cattle;
(b) the improvement of some 50 privately owned herds, initially
of about 100 head each, in the areas surrounding the ranches.
The owners would be provided with technical advice and finance
for improved breeding stock, and where necessary for spray
races, fencing materials, land clearing and pasture improve-
ment;
(c) the training of Ghanaian managers; and
(d) the identification of further ranch sites and the preparation
of a second stage project.
B. Detailed Features
The Project Areas
3.02      The project locations - Tadzewu, Pong Tamale and Branam - are
respectively in the southeast, north and west of Ghana (Map). Tadzewu is
in an area of tree and shrub savannah, Pong Tamale in tree savannah, and
Branam in mixed secondary and open forest and tree savannah. The ranches
are easily accessible throughout the year. Tadzewu and Pong Tamale lie
in important cattle areas. Relevant information about the three areas is
tabulated below:
Tadzewu    Pong Tamale    Branam
Rainfall-in/yr                                40            43          54
Rainy season                             Mar-Nov     May-Sept       Apr-Nov
Dry season                               Dec-Feb     Oct-Apr        Dec-Mar
Temperature - av.min C^                       24            22          21
- av.max C0                       28           33           30
Stocking rate on existing natural
pastures (ac/Animal Unit)                     8            10         8-9
Population density-people/sq mi          100-300        50-100       25-30
Cattle density                              high          high         low
Ranch areas (ac) at full development      15,000        31,400      30,000
- of which seasonally inundated           5,000        16,500        -
- of which cleared                        6,000           200       3,000
- of which fenced                         2,000         2,000       3,000



- 7 -
3.03      The ranch sites are flat to slightly undulating.  During the
rainy season all three are well watered by rivers and ponds, but by the
middle of the dry season only the larger rivers flow, and the number of
permanent water sources is very limited. Dug-outs and dams would be
constructed by the project to provide supplementary watering facilities.
3.04      Although the feasibility study indicates no tsetse-fly challenge,
tsetse-fly distribution maps show that two of the ranches -- Tadzewu and
Branam -- lie in areas where tsetse flies may be present. Tadzewu is in
a region with forest (Fusca group) and riverine (Glossina palpalis) flies.
It is likely, however, that even less trypano-tolerant Zebu-type cattle
can continue to be bred at Tadzewu ranch and distributed to, and kept
successfully by, surrounding farmers of the Accra plain, except in limited
areas where specialized habitats exist for Fusca group tsetse (G. medicorum).
Branam is in a region with riverine (G. palpalis and G. Tachinoides),
savannah, (G. morsitans and G. longipalpis), and forest (Fusca group)
flies. The challenge from the tseti;e in the Branam area is much higher
than around Tadzewu. Therefore the Branam ranch would be stocked with
trypano-tolerant N'dama and West African Shorthorn breeds. The same
breeds would be sold to surrounding farmers. Cattle thus sold would
require veterinary supervision for three months after sale, until they
have developed antigens against the common trypanosome species of the new
environment.
The Ranches
3.05      The three proposed ranches are at present being used as follows:
(a)  the Pong Tamale ranch is a breeding station of the Animal
Husbandry Division of the Ministry of Agriculture;
(b)  the Tadzewu ranch is operated on a commercial basis by the
State Farms Corporation; and
(c)  The Branam ranch is a maize farm belonging to the State
Farms Corporation.
The Pong Tamale and Tadzewu ranches have benefited from investments in land
clearing, watering facilities, buildings, and other constructions. Together
they have about 2,600 head of cattle: about 200 Zebu-types (White Fulani
and Sokoto Gudali), 1,000 Sangas (crossbreeds between Zebus and West African
Shorthorns), 600 pure N'damas, and 800 West African Shorthorns. Although
Tadzewu ranch made a small profit last year, it and the breeding station at
Pong Tamale are presently operated on too small a scale to be commercially
viable. The Branam ranch has no cattle at present, but it has good buildings
and about 3,000 ac of cleared land, of which 1,700 ac were cultivated with
maize in 1972. As a single crop operation, Branam has not been profitable;
present yields of about 1,500 lb/ac are low and could be improved to profit-
able levels through good crop management including rotation with pastures.



-8-
3.06      In order to carry out the developments described below, the ranches
would have to be expanded: the Pong Tamale ranch from 13,000 ac to 31,000 ac,
the Tadzevu ranch from 1,500 ac to 15,000 ac, and the Branam ranch, the
present size of which is not clearly defined, to 30,000 ac. At Pong Tamale,
the Ministry of Agriculture would retain existing buildings, some 3,000 ac.
of land and 20% of the herd. At Tadzewu some of the land required is
occupied by private farmers. These number less than 20 and could be resettled
on adjoining land that is equally suitable for agricultural production. It
would be a condition of effectiveness that the Ministry of Agriculture and
the State Farms Corporation on the one hand, and the Company on the other,
had entered into an agreement satisfactory to IDA for the transfer of the
property and the assets of the three ranches. The agreement would come into
force on the date of effectiveness of the credit. Assurances were obtained
that the land required for the full development of the ranches would be made
available to the Company, with satisfactory title and security, and that
proper arrangements would be made for the transfer of the private farmers
presently on the land required for the expansion of the Tadzewu ranch.
3.07      As commercial cattle production in Ghana is in its early stages,
many of the developments on the project ranches would also serve as trials,
under field conditions, of methods of land clearing, pasture improvements,
cross-breeding and feeding that had been proved in similar conditions else-
where. At Branam, where parts of the ranch are suitable for maize cultiva-
tion, 1,700 ac of maize would be grown annually in a 3-5 year rotation with
fodder crops (mainly Stylosanthes) to maintain soil fertility. This inte
grated method of production would be an innovation in Ghana and, if success-
ful, could serve as a model for wider application, both for large- and small-
scale operations. Finally, to ensure that full advantage is taken of the
animal husbandry research work already carried out in Ghana, the Company
would consult regularly and cooperate with the institutions concerned with
such research.
3.08      The developments on the three proposed ranches would be carried
out over a period of six years and would consist of fencing, land clearing,
watering, cattle handling and transport facilities, dips, firebreaks and
tracks, ranch buildings (including new offices and staff houses as well
as rehabilitation of those already in existence), and equipment for pasture
improvement and (at the Branam ranch) for maize production. Additional
breeding stock for the Pong Tamale and Tadzewu ranches and a foundation
herd for Branam would be procured.
3.09      Since trypano-tolerant breeding stock of N'dama and West African
Shorthorn cattle are in short supply, the purchase of good quality heifers
of these breeds at reasonable prices could be difficult. However, the
problem is unlikely to prove insurmountable; an arrangement for the supply
of a considerable number of N'damas over several years has been made recently
with Zaire under another IDA project and there is evidence that other West
African countries, such as Gambia, would supply N'dama cattle under satis-
factory conditions. About 2,600 of the 3,600 heifers needed for the project
would be of this type. The rest would be Zebus (White Fulani or Sokoto
Gudali) and their crossbreeds with N'damas and West African Shorthorn.



- 9 -
These would be satisfactory at the Pong Tamale and Tadzewu ranches and,
because of their larger size, are preferred by the local cattle owners.
Purchase of Zebus should be easier than purchase of N'damas and West
African Shorthorns.
3.10      Stocking rates and nutrition in general would be improved through
rotational grazing, selective bush clearing, burning of pastures to control
regrowth of bush and shrub and to provide fresh pasture for the dry season,
and by developing 1,500 ac at Branam, and 2,000 ac at each of the other
two ranches, of Stylosanthes gracilis pasture. Mineral supplements would
be made available throughout the year, and appropriate prophylactic treat-
ment, such as deworming and dipping, would be administered.
3.11      Natural pastures would be divided into 500 to 100 ac paddocks and im-
proved pasture into 80 to 100 ac paddocks, by a total of 142 miles of fencing,
using live posts wherever possible. Pastures would be protected by 135 miles
of fire-breaks. Twenty-five miles of access tracks would be built.
3.12      At the Pong Tamale ranch, 1,500 ac of bush would be cleared mecha-
nically for pasture improvement. Bush at the Tadzewu ranch is lighter and
can be cleared by hand. At Branam ranch the bush is denser than at the
other two ranches, and provision is made for selective clearing, using
mechanical, chemical or manual methods as required.
3.13      Each paddock would have at least one permanent natural or artificial
water source.  Artificial sources would consist of already existing dams and,
at the Pong Tamale and Branam ranches, of 24 new dug-outs with a capacity of
about I million gallons each. Artificial sources are expected to collect
enough water for the dry period during the rainy season. For hygienic reasons
they would be fenced and provided with troughs, where practicable.
3.14      Although water supplies at the Branam and Pong Tamale ranches can be
assured with the proposed relatively modest investments, further planning is
needed at the Tadzewu ranch. There are three dams within the ranch area from
which people and livestock obtain water, but these cannot meet the requirements
of the ranch. Sufficient water is known to be available economically from
other sources, but it is not yet certain whether the cheapest means would be
supplementary dams, dug-outs, or pumping. Accordingly, provision is made for
a three-month feasibility study during the first year of the project, as well
as provision for subsequent execution of the recommendations of the study.
Privately Owned Herds
3.15      About 50 privately owned herds, within about 25 miles of each
of the ranches, would be improved under the project. The size of these
herds would probably range from 10 to 400 head. The pattern of ownership
would vary from individual farmers or cattle traders to village or family
groups. Land tenure and grazing rights would also vary. For the purpose
of herd projections, it has been assumed that an average herd would have
about 100 cattle and one principal owner disposing of at least 40 ac of
land and sufficient grazing rights and crop residues for building up his



- 10 -
herd to about 250 head and for finishing about 25 steers per year. The
owners would be provided with technical advice and finance for improved
breeding stock and feeder steers, watering facilities and, where necessary,
dips, spray races, fencing materials, land clearing and pasture improvement.
Also, they would be assisted in increasing the size and raising the quality
of their herds, and in integrating cattle production with other activities.
Because of the difficulties in supervising, under this project, a larger
number of private farmers owning small herds, the number of participants
would be limited to about 50. A principal objective, however, would be
to develop extension and management techniques for a broader based second
project (para 3.18).
Training
3.16      The training of Ghanaian ranch management would be fundamental,
not only to the success of the project, but also to the further development
of the cattle industry. It would primarily be carried out on the three
ranches, and would be accompanied by the delegation to trainees of substan-
tial management responsibilities. This in-service training would be sup-
plemented, with funds provided by the project, by sending promising
Ghanaian staff to gain further experience on other Bank Group financed
projects.
3.17      Ghanaian ranch managers could, after training, follow a variety
of paths: remain with the project and assist in its further expansion,
strengthen the Animal Husbandry and Animal Health Divisions, establish
their own ranches, or find employment in other agricultural business enter-
prises. The possibilities for entry at the management level into private
agriculture ventures are particularly good, due to their increasing number
and the continuing shortage of skilled Ghanaian managers. The combination
of training and career opportunities in all these areas should be attrac-
tive to University graduates.
Project Preparation
3.18     -A provision for consultants' services has been made for the pre-
paration of the second project in the third project year (PY 3). By that time
it should be possible to assess the value of the methods and policies employed,
and if they prove successful it should not be difficult to identify further
livestock development projects. In addition, a second project would place
more emphasis on reaching smaller farmers, for example, through schemes to
develop village or communally owned herds and to encourage cattle fattening
by smallholders.
C. Organization and Management
The Company
3.19      The project would be carried out by the Ghana Livestock Company
Limited (the Company), a private limited liability company under the Ghana



-. 11 -
Companies Code, 1963 (Act 179). The registration of this Company, with a
lemorandum and Articles of Association acceptable to IDA, has been completed.
3.20      The shareholders, initially at least, would comprise:
(a)  Government, to whom shares and debentures would be issued
in exchange for the assets taken over;
(b)  Agricultural Development Bank; and
(c)  the three commercial banks:  Ghana Commercial Bank; Barclays
Bank of Ghana, Ltd.; and Standard Bank, Ghana Ltd., which would,
in addition, provide overdraft facilities.
Although the banks would hold a majority (60%) of the shares, Government
would have a controlling interest through its own shareholding and its
ownership of the Agricultural Development Bank and the Ghana Commercial Bank.
Board and Senior Management
3.21      A Board of Directors, elected by the shareholders and on which
each of them would be represented, would be responsible for laying down
and implementing the Company's policies. The senior management of the
Company would comprise: (a) Managing Director, who would also be a member
of the Board; (b) Chief Accountant; and (c) three Ranch Managers. Holders
of senior management posts would be recruited internationally, and would
have qualifications and experience, and be appointed on terms and condi-
tions, acceptable to IDA. Assurances on these matters were obtained. The
appointment of the Manager Director would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.22      While every effort would be made to find suitable Ghanaian can-
didates, the small degree of commercial ranching experience in the country
makes it likely that some expatriates would be required. For the purpose
of preparing the financial projections and to ensure that adequate provi-
sion is made in the proposed credit, two of the senior management posts
are assumed to be paid at expatriate salary levels. Expatriates would be
appointed under five-year contracts and would be expected to have substan-
tially handed over their responsibilities to Ghanaian successors by the end
of the fourth year, leaving themselves time to plan and advise on the
Company's future policies and operations in their final year of tenure.
Ranch Staffing
3.23      The senior staff at each ranch would comprise a Manager, Assistant
Manager and Veterinary Assistant. The Managing Director would be based on
one of the ranches, which would also be the head office of the Company.
3.24      Although routine veterinary care would be the responsibility of
the Veterinary Assistant, the Animal Health Division of the Ministry of



- 12 -
Agriculture would also provide veterinary cover. Assurances of the adequacy
of this cover were obtained.
3.25      Other staff at the ranches would comprise clerks, mechanics and
other artisans, storekeepers, drivers, head herdsmen, herdsmen, laborers
and guards. At head office there would be a senior bookkeeper, a secretary,
telephonist/typist and messengers.
Dealings with Private Farmers
3.26      The Ranch Managers would be in charge of dealings with private herd
owners and the Managing Director would visit each of the project areas regular-
ly in order to meet intending participants in the project and to supervise
the progress of those to whom credit had been extended. Day-to-day advice and
assistance to the private herd owners would be given by Assistant Managers
and Veterinary Assistants, under the close guidance and supervision of the
rartch managers. There would also be close cooperation with the Animal Health
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would provide adequate veteri-
nary cover to these associated farmers. Assurances of this service were
obtained.
Start-Up Arrangements
3.27      Although registered and established as a legal entity, the Company
would remain a shell until the appointment of the Board and Managing Director
(para 3.21), together with the effectiveness of the IDA Credit, enabled it to
start operations. The following 3-6 months would be used for the recruitment
of senior staff, the preparation of detailed ranch plans (including the
hydrological survey at Tadzewu - para 3.14), initial procurement, arrange-
ment of land titles and other legal and administrative matters. The assets
would be transferred at the end of this period, and provisions to this
effect would be included in the agreement to be concluded between the
Ministry of Agriculture, State Farms Corporation, and the Company (para 3.06).
Reviews of Company Policies and Results
3.28      The Company's operations would be on a straightforward commercial
basis, with a view to making profits. To ensure that its policies took
full account and advantage of changing conditions, herd projections and
financial forecasts would be prepared and updated annually. The forecasts
would be reviewed by the Board, in conjunction with the latest available
accounts, and taking note of the rate of return on capital employed. Assurances
were obtained that the Company would update its financial projections, together
with its future development program, and review these with IDA not later than
two months before the start of each financial year.



- 13 -
D. Accounts and Audit
3.29      The Ghana Companies Code 1963, under which the Company wo4ld be
formed, has detailed requirements for accounts and audit. These call for
inter alia: (a) the keeping of records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its operations
and financial condition; and (b) the appointment of independent, qualified
auditors.
3.30      Assurances were obtained that:
(a) the auditors would be a firm acceptable to IDA;
(b)  copies of the Company's audited accounts and of the auditor's
report thereon would be submitted to IDA within four months
of the end of each financial year; and
(c) the report of the auditors would be of such scope and in such
detail as IDA may reasonably have requested.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Costs over the project's six year development period are estimated
at US$4.5 million, including US$0.5 million for assets taken over, with a
foreign exchange component of US$2.0 million, as detailed in Annex 6 and
summarized in the table below.



- 14-
------------s  000 --------           -                 ----            us$   OO
Local           Foreign           Total                 Loc-l           Foreign           isLta                 F. E
Ghana Livestock Coepany.Ltd. -
Buildings                                               399               40              439                   346               34               380                   9
Fencing and stock handling fucilities                   117               35              152                   101               31               132                  23
Firebreaks and tracks                                    50               -                50                    44                                 449
Watering facilities                                     174               17              191                   131                15              166                   9
Improved pastures                                        98               97              195                    85               84               169                  50
Selective land clearing                                  75               20               95                    65               17                82                  21
Vehicles and equipment                                  114              267              381                    99              231               330                  70
VaterEng  facilities study                                -                  22               22                   -                 19                19                too
Subtotal                                              1,027              498            1,525                   891              431             1,322                  33
Herd-taken over                                         456               -               456                   395                -               395-
-purchased                                         356               357              713                   309              309               618                 50
Etpacriute s-I-lris 2/                                  -                385              385                   -                334               334                 100
Other expenses 2/                                        60               15                75                   52                13               65                  20
Subtotal 2/                                             872              757            1.629                   756              656            j1412                   46
Total Coepany                                         1.899            1.255            3.154                 1 647            1 087            _2734                  40
Private Farmers
Fencing and stock handling facilities                    62               22               84                    54                19               73                  26
.W.tering facilities                                     108               12              120                    94                10              104                  10
trEq.ips5nt                                                 6                5               11                     5                5                10                  50
Cattle - breading                                       122              286              408                   106               247              353                 _Z0
- incremental fattening                          36                -                36                   31                -                31                   -
Trtal Priv-te Farmers                                   33               325              659                   290              281               571                 49
Pretaration of Future Project                           -                 84               84                   -                  73               73                 100
Overseas Training                                        _                21                21                   _                 18               18                 100
Subtotal                                                -                105               105                                     91               91                 100
Projlct Cost Before Contingencies                     2,233            1,685             1,918                1,937            1,459             3,396                  43
Contingencies
Physical                                                 80               58              138                    70                50              120                  42
Prie                                                    600              566           1L166                    519              491             1 0t4
Tutal Proiject Cost                                  2 913             2.309           'i2_2         2        2_526 _2C0                         4_526                  4
NOTES
I/  Project costs include tho following esiating a.setu taken over by thb  company
Buildings                          132                     114
Fencing and handling facilities   11                        10
Watering facilitiss                   I 1
Cattle                             456                     395
Total                              600                     520
2/  The subtotal is equal to the balance sheet v-lue of the herd at the end of PY 6.  The sm of expatriate salories and other expenses represen.  the costs not
recovered by sales but added to the value of the herd.  The total of expatriate salarias is shown because IDA financing of the build-op in herd value is
disbursed in this way; other epenses are the residual figure.
May 2b, 1u74



- 15 -
4.02      Cost estimates are based on price levels ruling at the beginning
of 1974. A 10% physical contingency has been included for Company ranch
investments. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the
following annual rates of increase in prices:
(a)  for buildings and civil works, 18% in the first year,
15% in the second year and 12% thereafter;
(b)  for vehicles, equipment and material ranch inputs, 14% in the
first year, 11% in the second year and 7.5% thereafter; and
(c)  for all other costs, 7%.
rares and duties account for about 6% of total costs before contingencies
and excluding assets taken over.
B. Financing
4.03      The financing of project costs would be in the following amounts
and proportions (details at Annex 6):
Company's
Retained   Private
Govt.  Banks  Income      Farmers  IDA  Total
-US$VOOO----------   -----
Ghana Livestock Co., Ltd.
Infrastructure & Equipment       125    530       -           -    667  1,322
Herd build-up                    395       -    424            -    593  1,412
Subtotal                      520    530    424            -  1,260  2,734
Private Farmers                      -    184      11          114    262    571
Project Preparation                  -       -      -            -     73     73
Overseas Training                    -       -      -            -     18     18
Unallocated                          -    224    476            43    387  1,130
Total                         520    938    911           157  2,000  4,526
Percentage                    12%    21%    20%            3%    44%   100%
4.04      The IDA credit of US$2.0 million would be on standard terms to the
Government and would finance 53% of all project costs during the first four
years of the six-year development period, the equivalent of the total foreign



- 16 -
exchange costs and 44% of total project costs, including the assets taken
over. Government would onlend about 0 1.8 million (US$1.52 million) to the
Company at 8% for a term of 16 years, including six years of grace and would
utilize about US$70,000 of the proceeds of the credit to finance directly
the cost of preparation of a second livestock project and to defray the cost
of training Ghanaians overseas (US$20,000). The sum of US$390,000 would be
held as a contingency reserve.
4.05      The banks would provlde finance by way of equity contributions of
f 600,000 (US$520,000), the purchase of 0 200,000 (US$173,000) of 8% debentures
and overdraft facilities at 9% rate of interest.
4.06      Loans to private farmers would be made through the Company, which
would finance 80% of investment costs, the farmers contributing the other
20%.
4.07      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, acceptable to IDA, on behalf of the Borrower
aad GLC should have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) that the Company should have entered into arrangements
acceptable to IDA for the provision of finance to
the Company.
C. Disbursement
4.08      Disbursements of the IDA credit to Government would be made as
follows in the case of Company expenditures:
(a) 60% of the cost of investment in infrastructure, equipment
and breeding stock (US$993,000);
(b) 60% of the loans to private farmers (US$262,000); and
(c) 100% of the costs of expatriate salaries, excluding income
tax (US$267,000).
Disbursements of the credit would be made to Government for 100% of the
costs of project preparation and overseas training (US$91,000).
4.09      Disbursements would only be made against expenditures estimated to
be incurred during the first 4 years of the project, and would be based on
appropriate documentation, in the case of the Company, certified by the
General Manager or his designee. In the case of loans to private farmers,
disbursements would be made against certificate of expenditures; this docu-
mentation would not be submitted for review but would be retained and be
available for inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 7.



- 17 -
D. Procurement
4.10      International competitive bidding, in accordance with IDA guidelines,
would be used for all procurement contracts over US$50,000 for the following
goods and services: fencing materials, motor vehicles and other mechanical
and electrical equipment (about (US$500,000) and contractors services for
workers such as land clearing, buildings, firebreaks and water supplies (about
US$700,000). Locally advertised competitive bidding procedures would be used
for contracts of less than US$50,000 (aggregating about US$350,000), except
for small replacements and items whose low cost would not justify such
procedures. Small orders would, however, be bulked where practicable and
desirable. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference
in evaluating bids; there are no applicable regional preferences.
4.11      International competitive bidding would not be practicable for the
procurement of cattle (US$1.0 million), as the breeds suitable for Ghanaian
conditions can only be obtained locally through the traditional trading system
or through negotiated Government-to-Government contracts, from other West
African countries.
4.12      The services of expatriate personnel and consultants, and overseas
training would be arranged according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.13      Assurances were obtained that Government would:
(a)  make import licenses available to enable the Company to
procure supplies necessary for the purposes of the project;
and
(b) facilitate the procurement of imported breeding stock by
negotiation or contract with other Governments.
Government has already initiated negotiations with the Government of
Gambia which would be able to supply the trypano-tolerant N'dama cattle
required.
E. Credit to Farmers
4.14      The Company would provide credit to surrounding cattle-owners
to enable them to improve the productivity of their herds by the purchase
of breeding cattle, improved watering facilities, dips and fencing for
small paddocks. The terms and conditions of lending to cattle-owners
would be specified in the subloan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
the Company and each of the subborrowers. IDA received assurances that,
within six months of credit effectiveness, Government would cause the
Company to submit to IDA for approval a proforma subloan agreement.



- 18 -
4.15      Loans would be approved by the Board of Directors, on the recom-
mendation of the General Manager. Approval would be based on: (a) the
creditworthiness, general character and community standing of the borrower,
taking into account bank references where possible; and (b) the expected
financial returns on the investment as shown by simple development plans
prepared with the Company's assistance. If the development plans showed the
need for short-term working capital -- for example, where fattening operations
were involved -- it would be a condition of the loan that the borrower had,
or had made adequate arrangements to obtain such capital.
4.16      The loans would be at 2Z above the Bank of Ghana's ruling rediscount
rate for periods up to 10 years, including up to six years of grace. The Bank
of Ghana's rediscount rate is presently 6%. Government policy is presently
that loans for agriculture should be at 6%, with the result that such lending
is limited to the Agricultural Development Bank, which borrows from the Bank
of Ghana at 2-1/2% for this purpose. The commercial banks are very liquid,
however, and anxious to find sound borrowers.
4.17      The experimental nature of these operations implies close supervision
and good kn3wledge of the individuals as well as of the technical aspects of
their plans. Thus, the Company should carry out this credit program itself.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS
A. Production
5.01      Altogether, the company's ranches would build up herds totalling
some 14,000 head on about 75,000 ac including about 4,700 ac which would
be cultivated with maize and high-yielding fodder crops. Surrounding cattle
owners assisted by the project would be expected to increase their herds
from about 5,000 to 13,000 head in total, with a significant improvement in
quality and productivity. In particular, these cattle owners would achieve
a herd offtake of 18%, in comparison with 7-10% obtained by traditional
methods, and a carcass meat yield of 60 lb/animal year as compared with 25-30
lb currently; they would more than triple their output in seven years.
5.02      At full development in Project Year 12, the annual output of the
ranches and the surrounding herd would be 950 breeding heifers, 600 male year-
lings for breeding or fattening, and 1,000 tons of carcass meat; plus 2,000 tons
of maize from the Branam ranch. The total value of this annual output would
be of the order of 0 1.7 million (US$1.4 million equivalent).
B. Markets
5.03      Market Outlook.  Cattle produced under the project would be sold
domestically. The market outlook is good, as beef is in short supply in
Ghana and in West Africa as a whole. Beef consumption in Ghana declined



- 19 -
from 24,000 ton (7.9 lb per capita) in 1961 to less than 17,000 ton (4.3 lb
per capita) in 1971, reflecting the deterioration of the standard of living
and the acute foreign exchange crisis. It now represents only about 10%
of the total consumption of animal products, the balance being principally
fish (68%). Nonetheless, the strength of demand is shown by rapidly rising
prices and the scarcity of meat for sale. On the basis of a population
increase of 2.7 to 3% per annum, an annual increase of GDP per capita of
1.5 to 1.7%, and assuming an income elasticity of demand of 1.5, annual
consumption of meat in 1980 is expected to be in the range of 25,000 to
39,000 tons and thus per capita consumption would return at best to the
1961 level. Local production would fall short of these requirements tmder
any reasonable assumption and therefore the market would have to continue
relying partially on meat imports.
5.04      Imports, which are mainly of live cattle from neighboring countries,
have accounted in recent years for about two-thirds of consumption; the cost
in 1971 was US$7.5 million. Ghana's suppliers have been badly hit by
droughts in 1968-69 and again in 1972-73, and meat is in increasingly short
supply throughout West Africa. In these circumstances, even without Ghana's
restrictive foreign exchange position, it would be difficult to maintain
the present level of imports, let alone raise it. Since project output at
full development would be equal to less than 5% of Ghana's current imports,
there should be no difficulty in disposing of it.
5.05      Marketing Procedures and Facilities.  These are not a constraint
to the immediate development of the beef sector. Local cattle are freely
traded, and since 1972 all registered cattle imports are made by the Cattle
Development Board and ultimately distributed to butchers at a fixed live-
weight price. Two-thirds of domestic production supplies rural areas and
northern parts of the country; the balance of domestic production and imported
cattle supply the main towns in southern Ghana. An old slaughterhouse operates
in Accra and modern ones in Tema, Bolgatanga, and Kumasi; the last three work
well below capacity. Meat is retailed by an adequate network of butcher
shops and supermarkets and by the Meat Products Division of the Ghana Indus-
trial Holding Corporation, a state enterprise.
C. Prices
5.06      In principle, beef price controls were recently imposed in Ghana
but the legal status of such controls is somewhat perplexing. In November
1972, a Prices and Income Board was created to control the retail price
of a range of commodities including meat (a function formerly reserved in
Ghana to the Ministry of Trade). While the Board has issued formal Executive
Instruments to control the price of a series of commodities, in the case
of beef it has limited itself to informational press releases and letters to
major retailers. Even so, the initial consequence was to accentuate the
beef shortage as butchers reacted to the controls; it was scarcely worthwhile
for butchers to trade at the official price, and retailers determined to sell



- 20 -
at a reasonable profit charged even more to cover the danger of fines or
imprisonment. Following a representation by cattle dealers, retail price
ceilings were increased by 00.10/lb on March 15 but the new price schedule
still failed to provide retailers with a sufficient profit margin. By and
large, beef price controls are neither respected nor enforced: retailers
easily circumvent price controls by outright charging prices above maxima,
by tampering with scales or ignoring weights altogether, by augmenting the
proportion of bones and fat left in beef cuts, etc. At appraisal market
prices were well above price ceilings, as shown in the table below.
Price Ceiling             Market Price
Before March 15 After March 15
-------- -/lb - - ______-_
Bone-in                       0.55            0.65             0.90
Boneless                      0.65            0.75             1.10
Liveweight Equivalent          -              0.20-0.25        0.30-0.40
5.07      At appraisal, the market price, ranging between 0.30 to 0.40 0/lb
liveweight equivalent as shown above, was consistent with Abidjan market
prices (converted to Cedis at an estimated equilibrium rate of exchange).
As shown in more detail in Anne:c 2, the market prices prevailing in Ghana
were also consistent with world market prices expressed in Cedis at the
appropriate shadow exchange rate. On the basis of these findings, and in
view of liveweight price increases of at least 20% since appraisal, a price
of 0.42 /lb liveweight has been adopted for the purpose of financial and
economic projections of the project. It is judged that, under present
conditions, this price would provide an adequate incentive to cattle invest-
ment in Ghana. A schedule of the cattle prices used in the projections is
at Annex 3.
5.08      Government is aware that price controls limit the incentives to
a vigorous development of the cattle industry; but it is also anxious, in
the face of an inelastic short-run supply, to curb very large increases in
price which would feed inflation and might lead to social unrest. Although
the price ceilings have been raised again since appraisal, Government con-
siders it politically very difficult to withdraw completely from price
controls at this stage. IDA should, therefore, in the annual review of the
Company's financial prospects and development program (para 3.28), consider
the implications of any price controls in force at the time, both with respect
to the Company and with respect to the development of a commercial cattle
industry in Ghana, which is the primary purpose of the project.



- 21 -
D. Financial Benefits
5.09      The Company.  Projections (Annex 4) show satisfactory financial
results after the development period. There would be losses in the early
years which would accumulate to some  350,000 (US$300,000 equivalent) by the
end of PY 3. However, these losses accrue largely from the immediate write-off
of investments in land clearing, pasture improvement and the like, and would
be wiped out in the next three years. Profits after tax are estimated to rise
from about t 260,000 (US$230,000) in PY 6 to over t 340,000 (US$290,000) from
PY 10 onwards.
5.10      The company's profits, after tax charged at an assumed rate of
40%, represent an annual return on equity and loan capital in the range
11% to 15% from PY 6. Dividends are projected from PY 7 onwards. The over-
all financial rate of return on the company's operations through PY 20 is
14%, after tax and interest and taking into account the assets taken over.
A decrease in cattle prices or an increase in costs of 10% would cause the
financial rate of return to fall respectively to 11% and 10%, which is still
satisfactory. In the unlikely event of a fall of 20% in selling prices or
an increase of 20% in costs, the rate of return would still be positive at
6% and 7% respectively; an increase of 20% in selling prices would give a
rate of return of 17%. The banks would have an overall return of about 12%
on their investment in shares. In addition to dividends and debenture
interest, the banks earn interest at a rate of 9% on overdrafts outstanding
from time to time and would also have the prospect of substantial amounts of
new banking business with the development of the cattle industry. Government
returns from the project are summarized in para 5.14.
5. 12     The financial rates of return for the individial ranches, before
allocating head office costs, are: Branam 35%, Pong Tamale and Tadzewu
10%; after allocating head office costs these become: Branam 15%, Pong
Tamale and Tadzewu 8%. The favorable results projected for Branam are mainly
due to the integration of cattle production with the existing maize which
would be grown in rotation with improved pastures. This suggests a profit-
able course of development for mixed farming since, in Ghanaian conditions,
maize has to be rotated with other crops if the fertility of the soil is
not to be impaired. Another factor in Branam's profitability is its relatively
large size (30,000 ha). The smaller scale of the Pong Tamale and Tadzewu
ranches, whose locations preclude further expansion, is one of the reasons
for their modest profitability. As the basic objective of the project is
to encourage investment in livestock production, the commercial viability of
these two ranches was carefully reviewed during appraisal, taking into
account, in particular, their effect on the willingness of the commercial
banks to participate. The two ranches are, however, financially marginal
rather than unacceptable and their fixed investments account for less than
20% of project costs. Without them many private cattle herds with good
financial and economic returns could not be brought into the project and
valuable experience of alternative ranching systems (cattle only, with and
without improved pasture) would be lost. Moreover, the commercial banks



- 22 -
are no doubt aware that, without their guidance and help, the prospects
for the project and for the development of the industry would be weakened,
but that a successful project would mean new business for them and that
their participation would make them better prepared to undertake it. It
is therefore considered that all three ranches should be retained in the
project.
5.13      The Private Farmer.  An individual or group, owning a herd initially
of 100 head, as assumed in the model projections, would increase annual income
from 4 2,600 (US$2,300 equivalent) to $ 7,700 (US$6,700 equivalent) at full
development, and the value of the herd from t 17,000 (US$15,000 equivalent)
to 4 47,000 (US$41,000 equivalent). The financial rate of return on the
farmer's contribution is 17%, before tax. A decrease of cattle prices or
an increase in costs of 10% would decrease this financial rate to about 15%.
Head and financial projections are at Annex 5.
5.14      Government.  Revenues from the project would arise from:
(a) the spread of interest on the onlending of the IDA credit;
(b) taxes and duties; and
(c) dividends on its shareholding and interest on its debentures.
The only direct cost to Government would arise from the subsidy on ferti-
lizers. Valuing Government's contribution (the assets taken over by the
Company) at t 600,000, and ignoring taxes on private farmer's income or on
dividends received by shareholders, the rate of return to Government would
be of the order of 45%. The Government's cash flow from the project is set
out at Annex 8.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project would be the first major effort of the Government
of Ghana to develop the country's potential for grassland beef production
by encouraging investments leading to the adaptation and dissemination of
livestock production techniques proven successful under similar ecological
conditions elsewhere in the world. In that sense, the project is of a pilot
nature, and many of the most significant benefits would be unquantifiable.
The major ones would be: (a) development of a source of improved breeding
stock, including scarce trypano-tolerant breeds, and fattening stock for
existing and new cattle breeding and fattening enterprises; (b) the develop-
ment of livestock experience, based on local conditions, with pasture improve-
ment and utilization, cattle handling, feeding and crossbreeding, and the
integration of cattle raising with general farming; (c) the involvement of
private herdsmen with modern systems of cattle production; (d) the develop-
ment of local expertise in livestock production and extension through in-
service training and training abroad; (e) the testing and development of
methods for channeling technically supported credit to private cattle raisers,
and susceptible to being utilized throughout the country; (f) the involvement



- 23 -
of comnercial banks arnd private investors in the development of commercial
livestock production in Ghana; and (g) the establishment and maintenance of
a favorable climate for investment in livestock production as a result of
periodic consultations between Government and IDA on price and other relevant
policies. Thus, the project would help to establish a sound basis for further
development of commercial livestock production in Ghana, and thus afford IDA
the opportunity of providing additional assistance to the livestock sector
of Ghana.
6.02      The project's quantifiable benefits would be the production of
beef, breeding heifers, and naize (para 5.02). All the output of the
project would replace imports, thus saving scarce foreign currency. By
PY 7 the foreign exchange value of project output would be US$670,000
equivalent; from about PY 10 onwards the annual value would be of the
order of US$0.9 million equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of about
US$180,000 equivalent.
6.03      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 12%.
This estimates takes into consideration all costs, overseas training, and
physical contingencies.  Costs have been adjusted so as to:  (a) exclude
duties, subsidies and taxes other than income tax; and (b) take account of
the estimated shadow exchange rate of the Cedi by adding an adjustment equal
to 50% of foreign exchange costs. No adjustments have been made with regard
to cattle prices, i.e. cattle prices are based on those ruling in the free
market and are consistent with the estimated economic price derived from
international and regional prices and the shadow rate of exchange (Annex 3).
6.04      The sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested against
changes in selected prices. A decrease in cattle prices or an increase
in costs of 10% would cause the rate of return to fall to 10% and 11%,
respectively; a 10% increase in cattle prices would increase the estimated
rate of return to about 14%. In the light of present world and local
market conditions, cattle prices, are more likely to rise than to fall in
relation to the costs of production.
VII. ASSURANCES OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) the land required for the full development of the proposed
ranches would be made available, with satisfactory title
and security, to the Company and that proper arrangements
would be made for the transfer of the small farmers presently
cultivating some of the land required for the expansion of
Tadzewu ranch (para 3.06);
(b) the Animal Health Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
would provide adequate veterinary cover to the Company and
to participating farmers (paras 3.24 and 3.26);



- 24 -
(c) import licenses would be made available to the Company to
enable it to procure supplies necessary for the purposes of
the project and that Government would facilitate the
procurement of imported breeding stock by negotiation or
contract with other Governments, as appropriate (para 4.13).
7.02      Assurances were obtained fro;n Government that it would cause the
Company to undertake the following obligations:
(a)  the senior management posts of the Company, namely the
Managing Director, Chief Accountant and Ranch Managers would
be persons with qualifications and experience, and be
appointed on terms and conditions of service, acceptable to
IDA (para 3.21);
(b) the Company would update its financial projections, together
with its future development program, and review these with
IDA not later than two months before the start of each
financial year (para 3.28);
(c) the accounts of the Company would be audited by a firm of
auditors, acceptable to IDA; that copies of the Company's
audited annual accounts, and of the auditor's report
thereon would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
end of the financial year; and, that the report of the
auditors would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA
may reasonably have requested (para 3.30); and
(d) to submit to IDA, within six months of credit effectiveness,
a proforma subloan agreement (para 4.14).
7.03      It would be a condition of effectiveness that:
(a) the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Farms Corporation and
the Company had entered into an agreement satisfactory to
IDA for the transfer of property and assets for the three
ranches (para 3.06);
(b) the Managing Director of the Company had been appointed
(para 3.21); and
(c) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to IDA, had been
entered into by the Government and the Company; and that
the Company should have entered into arrangements acceptable
to IDA for the provision of finance to the Company (para
4.07).
7.05      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA
Credit of US$2.0 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Cattle Industry
A. Introduction
1.        Beef consumption in Ghana is met mainly by imports, although the
country has the potential for increased domestic production. Animal husbandry
accounts for less than 5% of the output of the agricultural sector (which in
turn accounts for about 40% of GDP). This low output of animal products re-
flects an inefficient use of resources. Almost 70% of the country's 92,000
sq. mi. consists of thinly populated savannah which is substantially more
luxuriant than most of the rangeland found in the countryes that tradition-
ally supply Ghana with meat. Livestock population is roughly estimated at
700,000 cattle, 800,000 sheep, and 750,000 goats. Ghana's natural pasture
land could support three to four times more cattle than present numbers.
B. The National Herd
Distribution and Management
2.        More than 80% of Ghana's cattle are in the Northern and Upper re-
gions (mostly in the latter; see map). Another 16% are in the coastal
savannah zone. The remainder are scattered throughout the forest area, which
separates the coastal savannah from the savannah of the north. Commercial
cattle raising is mostly carried out in the South, around Accra, by butcher-
operators who have some 50,000 head or about 7% of the national herd.
3.        In the north, as in many West African countries, many herds are
kept for social purposes, and animals are killed for weddings, funerals and
other social occasions. Cattle owners seldom sell any but culled cattle.
Also in the traditional subsector there are many farmers whose cattle are
tended by hired Fulani herdsmen. This dependence upon the Fulani has delayed
the development of animal husbandry, which as a result, is almost entirely
divorced from crop farming. There are very few persons with either a deep
interest in, or good technical knowledge of, cattle production. Furthermore,
departmentalization of the relevant services (Animal Health, Animal Husbandry,
State Farms, Crop and Forage Production, Water Resources, Agricultural Econom-
ics, etc.) and lack of coordination and cooperation among the departments are
also important drawbacks. Nomadic herds do not exist in Ghana. Apart from
some Government and a few private farms, there are no fenced pastures. Usual-
ly cattle are herded during the day around villages and pass the night in
kraals. Little or no selection of breeding stock is practiced. Supplementary
feeding is rarely provided; the common feed intake after weaning is indigenous
grasses with high cellulose and low protein and mineral content.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The most common grasses of the interior savannah are Andropogon
and Hyparrhenia species. In the coastal savannah, different varieties of
Andropogon, Brachiaria, Monocybium and Vetiveria are found with a lower
protein content than grasses of the interior grasslands. Centrosema and
Stylosanthes are promising fodder plants for pasture improvement.
5.        Deficiencies in quality and quantity of nutrition, especially dur-
ing the 4-6 month dry season, are the most important restraints on cattle
raising in Ghana. During the dry season, cattle of the interior savannah
lose 10-20% of liveweight; but in the Accra plains, where the dry season
is shorter (about three months), there is only about a 10% loss. Shortage
of drinking water for people and cattle is another restraint. There seem
to be few underground water reserves in most of the pasture areas, but small
dams and ponds can be constructed to store water from the rainy season.
Types, Numbers and Characteristics
6.        About 85% of Ghana's beef cattle are of the West African Shorthorn
type; pure N'Damas and Zebus represent only about 5% of the total and the re-
maining 10% are Sanghas, a crossbreed between Taurin cattle and Zebus such as
the White Fulani or the Sokoto Gudali. Some production characteristics are
given in the following table:
Breed              Age at First       Average Calf      Average Weight of
_Calving          Weight         3-Year Old Animals (lb)
(lb)          Male          Female
West African
Shorthorn          3.5 - 4           40 - 43           425           380
N'Dama               3   - 3.5            42             574           485
Sangha               3   - 3.5            53             725           675
Sokoto Gudali          3.5              53 - 56        1,190           734
Source: Ghana Livestock Development Handbook, USAID, Accra 1967
Mortality rates, estimated at 5% for adults and at 20% for calves, are high
and the calving rate is only about 40%. Local cattle have developed some
tolerance to trypanosomiasis and streptothricosis and make satisfactory
weight gains when adequately fed and managed. None of the breeds are suited
to milk production. Currently, the national herd is increasing by some
25,000 animals per year, or by about 4%.
Diseases
7.        Trypanosomiasis is the most important restriction to the expansion
of the cattle industry. Tsetse-flies infest most of the country in varying
degrees; but trypanosomiasis is rare because the bulk of the cattle are
trypano-tolerant and graze only in areas with little or no tsetse-fly challenge.
I



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Provided grazing areas are well selected, and curative treatments are used,
the disease should not be an obstacle to the development of a cattle industry
with trypano-tolerant cattle and even, in certain regions, with Zebus. The
Ghanaian veterinarians attach only small importance to trypanosomiasis. How
ever, the disease could be a serious danger for an expanding cattle industry
until tsetse-flies are eradicated or more effective prophylactic drugs or an
efficient vaccine are found. Research is proceeding in the development of
such a vaccine.
8.        Gastrointestinal parasites are the next most important health hazard
causing high losses of calves (between birth and the age of three months) and
poor weight gains. Medicines, in conjunction with good management, are very
effective against these parasites. The veterinary services are supposed to
provide free antiparasite treatment.
9.        Brucellosis and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia are other main
diseases. Brucellosis, which attacks 20-35% of the cattle, is the object of
a national eradication campaign through vaccination with B19 and McEwen
45/20 vaccines. Pleuropneumonia is now regressive thanks to the TI and HK3J
vaccines.
10.       Yearly vaccination against anthrax has proved satisfactory.  Tick-
born diseases, foot and mouth disease, blackleg, rabies and tuberculosis
are present but are not serious obstacles to cattle raising. Rinderpest
has disappeared.
11.       Skin diseases, namely streptothricosis, are present all over the
country. Zebu-type cattle and exotic breeds are very susceptible to the
disease, but the local humpless breeds have high resistance. There is no
proven cheap treatment and control is through regular dipping or spraying
with insecticides and quarternary ammonium or arsenic drugs, and treatment
with high doses of pencillin/streptomycin; however, promising work on a
vaccine is being done by the Farcha Laboratory at Fort Lamy (Chad).
Offtake
12.       The offtake from the national herd is only around 7% per year.
This is less than one third of the offtake in industrialized countries and
3-5% lower than in Ghana's supplying countries in the Sahelian zone. Most
of the cattle are at least four years old before being slaughtered; and
then carcass quality is modest and the dressing percentage is not more than
50%. However, there are active cattle markets and, although the majority
of cattle owners still sell animals only in case of emergency, a growing
number are not only willing to sell, but want to sell when market conditions
are best.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
C. Demand and Supply
Demand
13.       During the last few years, annual consumption has fluctuated in
the range of 12,000-17,000 tons of carcass meat, as compared with 24,000
tons during the early 1960's. As the population increased from 6.9 million
to 8.8 million, annual consumption per capita decreased from 7.9 lbs. to 4.3
lbs.
14.       The present per capita consumption of meat cannot be regarded as
indicative of future demand. Meat consumption is also very low in propor-
tional terms--accounting for less than 10% of the total consumption of animal
products in Ghana (fish accounts for 68%). Indeed, price controls and ex-
change restrictions have lead to a de facto limitation on consumption through
the subsequent shortages of meat. The evidence suggests strongly that more
meat would be consumed if it were available. By 1980, with population reaching
10.9 million, and assuming that consumption per capita regains the earlier
level of 3.6 kg/year, Ghana would need 39,000 tons of carcasses per year--an
increase of 24,000 tons over present consumption. In a draft note prepared
by the Planning Units of both the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of
Finance, they conservatively forsee a total consumption of 25,000 tons of
carcasses per year (10,000 tons incremental) in 1980. In either case,
there is ample room for any forseeable increase in domestic production.
Supply
15.       The bulk of domestic production--some 35,000 head out of 50,000-
is privately slaughtered in the rural areas and towns of northern and central
Ghana. Imported cattle provide most of the supply for the main towns in
southern Ghana.
16.       According to records of the Animal Health Division of the Ministry
of Agriculture (Bolgatanga), imports of cattle over the last 3 years were, in
round figures:  1970 - 60,000 head; 1971 - 58,000 head; and 1972 - 37,000 head.
The decline is a continuation of a long-term trend which started in 1960, when
imports were as high as 110,000 head/year. Foreign exchange difficulties
have been a significant factor in recent years. Cattle now account for less
than 5% of total imports.
17.       Some cattle are smuggled into the country, but the number is pro-
bably held down by the difficulties of exchanging currency. Smuggled cattle
would normally be paid for in Cedis which would have to be exchanged on the
blackmarket. At current rates in neighboring Upper Volta villages, the
cattle owner would realize a very unfavorable exchange of CFAF 125 = t 1.
Most smuggled cattle are probably bartered against Ghanaian products. Though
no estimate is available, cattle smuggling is thought unlikely to exceed 20%
of the official inflow.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
D. Marketing
18.       Since May 1971, foreign cattle owners have been required to channel
their herds through one of five border control ports: Mongonori, Paga,
Pusiga, Koupoulima, and Hamile. There is a nine day quarantine and compulsory
vaccination against rinderpest. The Cattle Development Board (the Board) has
the sole right to purchase cattle at Paga and Mongonori, which account for
85% of total imports; at the other posts, committees of butchers allocate
purchase quotas.
19.       The Board started operations in October 1972 with staff seconded
from the Ministry of Trade; an operating fund of 0 200,000 was provided by
the Ministry of Finance and 0 2 million lent by the Agricultural Development
Bank. The Board's total purchases in its initial months were roughly as fol-
lows:
Head of Cattle
1972 October                            1,900
November                           3,200
December                           3,600
1973 January                            4,200
20.       The cattle are weighed at the border, marked with their weight
and transported to various regions in trucks rented by the Board. Most go
to Kumasi, Accra (where there are separate markets for imported and domestic
cattle), the Bolgatanga meat factory, and Sekondi/Takoradi. The daily trade
averages 120 head in Kumasi and 60 head in Accra; the figure for Kumasi is
higher because fish is less readily available in this area.
21.       The imported cattle are sold by the Board to the butchers at a
nationwide standard price of 4 0.30/lb liveweight 1/ based on the weight
marked on the animal at the frontier.  Since demand exceeds supply, the
cattle are allocated to butchers by a "reception committee", whose head is
an army officer in the main markets. Local cattle are freely traded.
22.       The main final buyers of cattle are the butchers who, together with
the cattle dealers, are organized in a national Association. The butchers
take their cattle to slaughter houses which are mostly owned and operated
by the city councils. In Accra, however, the city council provides the nec-
essary facilities and also transports the animals and carcasses (at a charge
of t 2/head) but slaughtering and dressing is done by personnel employed by
the butchers. The slaughterhouse in Accra handles a daily average of 45
cattle (in addition to some 25 sheep, 40 goats, and 40 pigs). Butchers
sell carcasses to supermarkets or directly to the public.
1/   Since appraisal, this price has increased to % 0.40/lb liveweight.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
23.       The other large buyer of cattle is the Meat Products Division of
GIHOC (Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation). GIHOC is a large organiza-
tion, established in 1968 to take over state corporations and operate them
on a commercial basis. It now consists of 17 operating divisions 1/ with
headquarters management and staff in Accra (plus a subsidiary advertising
company). Of GIHOC's 10,000 employees, the Meat Products Division accounts
for only some 250. This Division has its headquarters in Tema.
24.       The Meat Products Division took over a slaughterhouse and meat
canning factory near Bolgatanga (Upper Region), and in Septemzber 1969 took
over the Tema slaughterhouse from the Tema Development Corporation; it also
maintains a storage depot in Kumasi and three "meat cottages" (retail shops)
in the Accra-Tema area. The meat is retailed mDstly as "bone in!', with as
much as 50% bones.  Spare bones are returned to the factory and, together
with the non-carcass bones (head, etc) are crushed and sold. Hides are sold
to the tannery in Kumasi. Meat from the heads and from the carcasses refused
by the veterinary officer is processed as corned beef. There are seven re-
frigerated vans with a capacity of 45 carcasses each; these take four days
for a return trip to Accra which costs C 120 in fuel only.
25.       The Bolgatanga factory is not very efficiently used.  It was planned
in 1960-62 to slaughter 25,000 head of cattle per year (70-100/day). Since
operations started in early 1966, the utilization of capacity has been as
follows:
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
pe------------------, ercentage-------------------
Utilization of
capacity         4       17      13       13     n.a.     17       26
In 1972, 4,660 head of cattle were purchased directly from cattle owners
and, between late October 1972 and the end of the year, 1,830 head were
supplied by the Cattle Development Board at C 0.30/lb (about 1,600 sheep
goats, and 400 pigs have also been slaughtered).
E. Prices
Live Cattle
26.       Domestic live cattle are freely traded.  The pricing mechanism for
imported cattle is not straight-forward. The Cattle Development Board buys
for e 0.20/lb liveweight, which compares fairly in Cedi terms with the prices
1/   Steelworks, metal industries, meat products, paper conversion, glass
manufacturing, marble works, fiber bag manufacturing, plants, pharma-
ceutical, sugar, vegetable oil mills, electronics, brick and tile,
distilleries, boatyards, cannery and footwear.



ANNEX I
Dige 7
previously obtained by bargaining (on average C 120 to C 130/head). The
:-oreign seller is paid by a check on the Ghana Commercial Bank, Navrongo
IEranch, which normally converts it into a draft for dollars. Up to December
1971, the exchange rate was C 1 = US$1 = CFAF 280; in early March 1973, the
rates used were C 1 = US$0.79 = CFAF 190, although, since the Cedi did not
devalue along with the dollar in February 1973, it should have been
4 1 = US$ 0.86. Thus, in 15 months, the price received by the cattle owner
in his own currency decreased by 32%. This is most likely the main reason
why the inflow of cattle dropped so sharply during 1972. Finally, the cattle
owner has to pay tax of 0 7.35/head and an exchange fee of 1.25%. The Board
pays the custom duties and sales tax (about 17%) as well as transport to the
region (weighted average about C 14/head) and other miscellaneous charges
(about C 3/head).
Retail Price Controls
27.       In November 1972, a Prices and Incomes Board was created with iw
structions to control the prices of a considerable range of commodities,
including meat. The Board's functions overlap with those of the Ministry
of Trade, which for years has controlled a large number of prices. Formal
Executive Instruments have been issued for some commodities, but not for
meat prices which are fixed in press releases and letters to major retailers.
28.       The butchers' financial returns from the official retail prices
can be estimated. First of all, the dressing percentage is low, perhaps
as low as 40-45% particularly when it is remembered that imported cattle are
sold to the butchers on the basis of their weight at the frontier (para. 20).
Three categories of meat are prepared: bones-in, boneless, and special cuts.
One 500 lb head of cattle costing t 150 (liveweight) may yield a 200 lb car-
cass plus 10 lb of liver, heart and kidneys 1/, which might be sold as follows
at the official retail prices indicated:
Until March 15, 1973      After March 15, 1973
50 lb of special cuts       at C 1.10 - C 55.00        at C 1.10 = t 55.00
30 lb of boneless           at   0.65 -   19.50        at   0.75 =   22.00
120 lb of bones-in          at   0.55 =   16.00        at   0.65 =   78.00
plus 10 lb of liver, etc.  at   1.00 =   10.00         at   1.00 =   10.00
e150.00                   t165.00
1/   In calculations such as these, it is customary in Ghana to exclude the
intestine and fat as an allowance for the cost of slaughtering.  The
hoofs, horns and head bones are thrown away in all slaughterhouses ex-
cept those of GIHOC.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
29.       Since the price controls obviously do not give butchers an ade-
quate profit margin, evasion is the rule rather than the exception. Some
butchers have been jailed, though the legal grounds for this are dubious.
The fact is that price controls are made ineffective by the power that
butchers have in the marketing process--the availability of meat, the dis-
carding or disregarding of scales, the percentage of bones left in, etc.
Annex 2 examines the economic price considerations and concludes that the
actual prices charged, although a good deal higher than the controlled prices,
are not unreasonable.
F. Government Services
30.       The Ministry of Agriculture has two Divisions concerned with live-
stock--Animal Health and Animal Husbandry. The Animal Health Division pro-
vides the following services free of charge:
-    Vaccination for control or eradication of epidemic and
endemic diseases;
-    Combat against internal and external parasites through dipping,
spraying and anthelmintics;
-    Control of imported livestock through nine quarantine stations;
-    Meat inspection;
-    Some poultry extension service;
-    Laboratory tests;
-    Running a Veterinary Training School at Pong Tamale.
The Health Division is adequately staffed (32 veterinarians, 200 veterinary
assistants, 255 inoculators and almost 400 general staff) and well managed;
its 13 veterinary sections provide good animal health services throughout the
country. As a result, with the exception of brucellosis and to some extent
contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, the principal diseases are under control.
31.       The Animal Husbandry Division is responsible of extension work,
breeding and distribution of improved stock. Until 1971 the Division pro-
moted the poultry industry very successfully, operating poultry production
and processing centers including hatcheries and feed mills. In that year
it handed over its operations to the Pouadze Enterprises Ltd. Since then
the Division has concentrated on ruminants, mainly cattle, which are bred
on one dairy station with about 350 Freisians and Freisian Hereford cross-
breds and on eight beef cattle stations with altogether about 3,000 animals.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
In 1972 the Division distributed about 200 breeding bulls to farmers at
subsidized prices, well below slaughter prices, and in conjunction with
technical advice. The Division lacks adequate staff and funds.
G. Government Policy
32.       Until about 1970, Government policy concentrated on the develop-
ment of an intensively managed poultry industry, based on the international
experience that modern poultry enterprises can rapidly increase the supply
of animal protein provided that adequate feed is available. In Ghana, how-
ever, poultry products are still beyond the purchasing power of the majority
of the population. Nevertheless, the industry is well established and further
expansion will mainly be in response to favorable concentrate prices and in-
creases in domestic demand. Some pork is also produced commercially; as with
poultry, expansion will depend to a considerable extent on the price of con-
centrates.
33.       Over the past three years or so, Government has stated that it
gives high priority to beef cattle development and, more recently, to the
promotion of small ruminants. But so far, although the control of animal
diseases has improved considerably, there has been no sustained effort
to exploit the country's almost untapped pasture resources for raising
cattle. Until now the cattle projects which the Government has engaged in
are not managed to a standard that enterprising livestock owners should
follow.
34.       The greatest need now is for a new start to be made.  The highest
priority should be given to exploiting the available grazing areas--whose
opportunity cost is practically nil--by increasing substantially the number
of ruminants. The main emphasis should be on beef cattle. Sheep and goats
have lower priority because they are divided into so many small and widely
scattered flocks that the introduction of improved technology would be less
economic than for cattle.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Economic Price of Beef
1.        Most of the beef consumed in Ghana has traditionally been imported
on the hoof. 1/ Due to a growing scarcity of foreign exchange, to Government
price and exchange controls and to recent currency realignments, it has become
less and less profitable for dealers in neighboring countries to sell to Ghana.
For example, 500 pounds of liveweight cattle sold to a Ghanaian importer
brought the seller $100, or CFAF 28,000, before December 1971. After February
1973, although the price in Cedis remains the same, he received only $79,
or CFAF 19,000, for the same sale. Thus the quantity of beef imported (and
therefore domestic consumption) has decreased sharply. In order to reverse
this trend and to increase imports by 5,000 head of cattle per year--the
production expected from the project--it would probably be necessary to
restore the price in existence previous to December 1971 in terms of either
the CFA franc or the dollar. This would yield a price of 0 0.34/lb live-
weight if the previous dollar price were restored, and 0 0.37/lb liveweight
if the previous CFA franc price were restored, instead of the current 0 0.20/lb
liveweight.
2.        A Bank review in February 1973 of the world beef market foresaw
a soft market until 1980 with no price increase, and it included interna-
tional beef prices from various sources:
1/   A small proportion of Ghana's beef imports comprises quartered, high
grade meat from Denmark. Because the price is 0 3 per lb, the market
for this type of beef is too small to be of significance.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Some International Beef Price Series
($/lb)
I                  II                III                IV
Frozen
Boneless      Chilled Rumpsteak   Frozen Quarters  Average LDC's
Year     CIF-USA        Wholesale London       CIF Hamburg    Beef Exports
1960      N.A.                0.59                0.25            0.21
1961      N.A.                0.55                0.21            0.16
1962      0.39                0.57                0.21            0.18
1963      0.38                0.53                0.21            0.19
1964      0.39                0.68                0.30            0.25
1965      0.41                0.72                0.31            0.30
1966      0.47                0.67                0.28            0.29
1967      0.48                0.66                0.25            0.26
1968      0.50                N.A.                0.24            0.28
1969      0.56                0.71                0.26            0.28
1970      0.60                0.85                0.33            0.32
1971      0.62                1.00                N.A.            N.A.
1972      0.68                1.09                N.A.            N.A.
Note: with El - $2.4
Source: IBRD Commodities and Export Projections Division
Data for Hamburg frozen quarters and for average less developed countries
(LDC) exports have been chosen as the most appropriate base for pricing
project beef production. Extrapolations of the LDC export data (column
IV) yield a 1972 cif price ranging between $0.41 and $0.50, or t0.70 to
0 0.85, per lb of carcass at the assumed equilibrium exchange rate of the
Cedi. These prices are consistent with the liveweight prices in para 1,
and are equivalent to retail prices of from $0.55 to $0.68 per lb of bones-
in meat.
3.        The estimates yielded by the two above approaches are confirmed
by the actual retail prices in West Africa:
Present Beef Retail Prices in West Africa
-Official Prices---   ---Market Prices----
Bones-In    Boneless   Bones-In    Boneless
Abidjan (Dec. 1972)               0.44        0.53        0.62         0.75
Lagos   (Feb. 1973)              N.A.         N.A.        1.00         1.33
Accra   (Feb. 1973)               0.43        0.51        0.70         0.86
Accra   (Apr. 1973)               0.51        0.59        0.70         0.86
Accra   (Feb. 1973,
Shadow Rate)            0.32         0.38       0.53         0.65
Accra   (Apr. 1973,
Shadow Rate)            0.38         0.44       0.53         0.65



ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.        The three methods of estimating retail prices of beef yield con-
sistent results. Since the output of the project will be cattle on the hoof,
it is the liveweight prices, estimated in para 1 to be from e 0.34 to 0 0.37
per lb, which are significant. Based on the retail liveweight price, and
also on the reported prices of domestic cattle sales which range from t0.30
to tO.40 per lb liveweight, a liveweight price for cattle (farmgate) of
e 0.35 per lb is judged to reflect both the economic and financial price at
the time of appraisal. In view of subsequent price increases, a liveweight
price of 0 0.42 per lb has been used for both the financial projections and
the economic evaluation of the project.






ANNEX 3
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELORPENT PROJECT
Ghana Livestock Ccnpany Ltd - Cattle Prices
(Cedis)
-__________-----_-----_-------Project Year-----------------_____________
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8       9    10 and
After
S4LE PRI CES
Steers
9 - 24 Mlonths            120     120      120     125      125     130      130     135      135    140
24 - 36 Months             190     190      190     195      195     200      200     205      205    210
36 - 48 Months             230     230      230     235      235     235      240     240      240    245
48 - 60 Months             245     245      245     250      250     250      255     255      255    260
60 +    Months             26o      260     260     265      270     275      280     285      290    300
Feeders                    190     190      190     195      195     200      200     205      205    210
Cull Heifers
9 - 24 Months             105     105      105     110      110     115      115     120      120    125
24 - 36 I4onths            175      175     175     180      180     185      185     190      190    195
36 - 48 Months             195     195      195     200      200     200      205     205      205    210
48 +    llonths            195     195      195     200      205     205      210     215      220    225
Surplus Heifers
9 - 24 Months             115     115      115     120      120     125      125     130      135  i10
24 - 36 Months             190      190     190     195      195     200      205      210     210    215
36 - 48 llonths            215     215      215     220      220     220      225      225     225    230
43 +    '-.onths           215      215     215     220      225     230      235      240     245    25;0
Fattenin.g Cull Females     175     175      175     185      195     205      215     225      235   245
Cull BulLs                  245      245     245      250     255     260      270      280     290    300
Weaners                      60       60      60       65      65       70      70       75      75      S0
PURCFiGSI PRT1CES
Irnwature Heifers          120     120      120     120      120     120      120     120      120    120
Breedable Hleifers         220      220     220      220     220     220      220      220     220    220
Bulls                      300      300     300     300      300     300      300      300     300    3CI0
Steers                     120     120      120     120      120     120      120      120     120    120
]j/ As3uioed to be worth lC,i more than the corresponding cull heifer.
j  Ar the basis of 0 0.40 per lb. liveweight.
May 28, 1974






ANNEX 4
Table i
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY LTD. - hMERD PROJECTIONS
PONG TAMALE RANCH (31,400 AC)
-----------------------------------------------Project Year----________________________
Pre Dev.           1          2           3          4           5          6         7           8          9-20
HERD COMPOSITION
Breeding cows                           450           721         957      1,204       1,440       1,548     1,548      1,548      1,548         1,548
Bulls                                    14            22          29          36         43          46        46         46          46           46
Calves                                  264           364         505         718        903       1,080     1,161      1,161      1,161         1,161
9-24 month heifers                      100           162         178         247        285         363       434        466        466           466
9-24 month steers                       100           162         178         247        352         443       529        569         569          569
24-36 month heifers                     100           190         201         199        255         155       186        186         217          217
24-36 month steers                       30            98         158         175        242         345       434        519         557          557
Fattening cull females                   28             55         35          47         59         113        121       152         152          182
Total numbers                           822         1,409       1,737       2,157      2,676       3,013     3,299      3,486      3,556         3,587
(Total animals)                      1,086          1,773       2.242      2,875       3.580      4.093      4.460      4.647      4.717         4.748
Subtotal A.U. I/                        808         1,381       1,720       2,133      2,647       2,957     3,238      3,411      3,480         3,496
Purchased steers                          -           100         100         100        100         100       100         89           0            0
Total Animal Units                      808         1,481       1,820       2,233      2,747       3,057     3,338      3,500      3,480         3,496
MORTALITY
Breeding cows                             2            11          14          19         24          29        31         31          31           31
Bulls                                     2              0          0           1          1           1          1         1           1             1
Calves                                   10              0          0           0          0           0          0         0           0            0
Wean rs                                   0              7          7          10         14          18         22        23          23            23
9-24 month heifers                        3             3           3           4          5           6          7         9           9            9
9-24 month steers                         3             2           3           4          5           7          9        11          11           11
24-36 month heifers                       2             3           4           4          4           5         3          4           4            4
24-36 month steers                        2             1           2           3          3           5          7         9          10           11
Fattening cull females                   -0              0          1           0          0           1          1         1           2             2
Subtotal                                 14            19          27          34         42          53         59        65          68            70
Purchased steers                          0             0           2           2          2           2          2         2           2             0
Total                                    14            19          29          36         44          55        61         67          70            70
PURCHASES
Breeding cows                           110              0          0           0           0          0          0         0           0             0
Bulls                                     4             8          12           9          10          8          5         8           8            10
Calves                                   66              0          0           0           0          0          0         0           0             0
Immature heifers                         50            50          50          50          48          0          0         0           0             0
Breeding age heifers                     30           100         100         100         100          0          0         0           0             0
Fattening cull females                   12              0          0           0           0          0          0         0           0             0
Subtotal                                272           158         162         159         158          8          5         8           8            10
Steers                                    0            100        100         100         100        100        100        89           0             0
Total                                   272           258         262         259         258        108        105        97           8            10
SALES
Bulls                                     2             4           4           1           2          4          5         7           7             9
9-24 month heifers                       -0              0          0           0          67         80         95       102         102           102
24-36 month heifers cull                 -0              7          8           9          12         17        43         52          56            56
24-36 month heifers                      -0             0           0           0           0        107        126       187         184           184
24-36 month steers                       60             0           0           0           0          0          0         0           0             0
36-48 month steers                       20             29         96         155         171        238        338       425         508           546
Fattening cull females                   40            40          54          35          46         58        112       120         150           150
Subtotal                                122             80        163         200         298        504        719       893       1,007         1,048
Purchased steers                         -0              0         98          98           98        98         98        98          88             0
Total                                   122            80         261         298         396        602       817        991       1,095         1,048
PRODUCTION DATA
Weaning rate X                           55.00          65.00      70.00       75.00        75.00     75.00      75.00     75.00       75.00         75.00
Adult mortality b                         2.00           2.00       2.00        2.00         2.00      2.00       2.00      2.00        2.00          2.00
Extraction rate %                        12.10           5.78       9.45        9.40        11.28     17.04      22.20     26.19       28.94         29.98
Total output rate X                      12.10           5.78       9.45        9.40       11.28      17.04      22.20     26.19       28.94         29.98
Cows/total herd h                        41.24         40.69       42.70       41.90       40.22      37.82      34.71     33.31       32.81         32.61
Bull/cow ratio %                          0.00           3.00       3.00        3.00        3.00       3.00       3.00      3.00        3.00          3.00
Cow culling rate %                        7.00          10.00       5.00        5.00         5.00      8.00       8.00     10.00       10.00         12.00
Bull culling rate b                      10.00          20.00      20.00        5.00         5.00     10.00      10.00     15.00       15.00         20.00
Heifer culling rate %                     5.00           5.00       5.00        5.00         5.00      5.00      10.00     10.00       10.00         10.00
Stocking rate AC/A.U.                    31.15          21.20      17.26       14.06       11.43      10.27       9.41      8.97        9.02          8.98
Stocking rate A.U./S                      0.03           0.05       0.06        0.07        0.09       0.10       0.11      0.11        0.11          0.11
Carry ng cap. A.U.                    1,500         1,500       2,000       2,500      3,000       3,500      3,500     3,500       3,500         3,500
NOTE:
1/ A.U. = Animal Unit  = 1 adult animal during 1 year.
June 18, 1973



ANNEX 4
Tab;Le 2
GHANA
LIV3STOCK DEVELOPMLENT PROJLCT
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPAN! LTD. - HERD PROJECTIONS
-    TADZIEi RANCH (15,000 AC)
Pre. Dev.     __________- Project Year---------                      --
1        2         3          4        5          6       7-20
p'eFE'1.F : C;rnw             70r       676       hrg       971       971       977        u77       971
RUCLl                          25        2n        26         21'       29        29 29               29
CALVFS                        450       455       473       615        6d4       664       664       6tl4
9-74 "14nTH  F'FlFE9S         21tf      221       223       23?        301       335       335       335
9-74 *nlITH STEFftS           1J5       21t       223       232        301       234       168       166
24-36  UOOTH  IL1FF-RS         71'      706       716       216       227        295       32d       328
74-31  WINITt4 STEE1S         100       181       216       200         58         0         0          0
36-ah MnMlTH4 HEIFERS           '       5r          0         O         0         0 -3 O
FATrFNl,'0 ClLL FrM4           S(        69         33        43        48        96        96        96
_.___-,______________.  ......................................................................______......_
TOTAL - AIJILTS              I3 10     1650      1616      1941      1943       1967      1934      1934
- ANIIMAis             1791      210'      22 90     2556      2627      2651      261d       2618
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS Y         1315      1615      1800      1919       1919      1919      1806      1866
MURTALITY
RRFE11ING  COIIS                7        14         14        18        20        20        20        20
RULLS                            2         1                    1       I         I          I         I
CAI VF S                        5          0    0              0         0         0         a          0
w'EANFRS                       (t          9         9         9        12        14        14         14
0-74 rnCNTH HF1rE,s             7          4         4         4         5         6          7         7
9-J4  Ml0eTW STEF S             I?         4         4         4         5 -                 5          3
74-36 MOPT4 WEIF-RS              p         I         4         4         4         56                   7
94-36 Mn'TH STEEPS              2          P.        4         4         4         1          0         0
36-4r   WIDTtH HEIFFRS          G         O          I        -O         J         0         0          0
FATTrF:kINir CULL FEM           ci                   I         O         0         0          L         I
TOTAI                          17        ?6         3?        36        38        38        38         38
PURC HASES
IMMATURE HFIrERS                         s SO        o         o         0         0          a         0
RULLS                           I'         I        I I ,                2         3          3         6
TOTAL                                    Sl         10         5         2         3          3         6
SALES
RtOLLS                          5          5         4         1         1         3          3         6
MAI-E YFAPLINnS                 0,0                            0         0         0       11l        171
CAIVFSS
LFAN                           (I        0          0         0)        0       10U I                  0
9-24 M0t'TH STEARS
LFAN                           0         0          0        10       169       295'        a          0
9-74  mONT4 STEFRS             1o          0         o                   0                             0
?4-36 MONTH HEIFfRS            2fi         0         0         0         0               0              0
24-36 MONTH  STIEeS            85         0          0         0         0         0       229       164
36-AA  IMOINITH HETFFRS
CtlLL                          0         3         8         It        It        11        14        32
36-4A MONITH HEIFFRS            0         0          0        42       136        96       160       174
36-_R HONT4 STFELPS           lo0        9R       170i      21?        7u5        57         J          0
FATTFNING  CULL FFM            SO        50         68        33        43        47        95         95
TOTAl                         270       156        257       30'J      564       6t1       6/2       642
P1`4IIIICTION DATA
WrANING NATF X             (15.0c    ('5.00    7n0.0      70.0C     7n.uo    7u.00    70,uJ    70.uo
ADIILT PI1PTALITy            2.010   27.00       2.'hi,    2.ouo)    2.00      Z.0!       2.00      2.00
TOT.  IIITPI'T R4AT  t     7(,53       9.65    14.29    16.oF    29.40    31.87    35.65    34 .')7
CflWS/TnTAL_ NERO  V        39.11    3?.1?    1G.38    3h.24    31.20    36.-6    37.33    3r.J3
RfUt l/Cfl- PATTO X         3.00      3.('0     3.00      3.uo      3.00       3.U0      3.00      3.00
ros C'LLlfir, 4ATE X        1.00    I 0 .uo      5.0O      5.uo      5.UO    1 0.o J    10.00    1X.00
RtLi. C ILI I|OG YRGT7 IF   | t     . (    2000 * .00     5 . u     5.O    1ou.u O      I I . O    0 . J0 U'
HET F H CIlit l4G RA I    R   .0n      S.o 0 uO  5.0)      5.0)     5.U0        5.uO      5.00    1).00
STOCKING HATE AC/A.U.       11 .41     9.29      h.33      7.82      7.82       7.h2      7.95      7.95
STOCKING RATE A.U./AC         (.09     0.11      '.1-2     u.13      0.13       0.13      0.13      0.13
CARRY1hG  CAP. A.,9.         2400      1600      180t)     1900       1900      1900      1900      1900
I/  A U. = Animal Unit = 1 adult animal during 1 year.
June 18, 1973



GHANA
LIVESTOCK( DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOJCK COMSPANY LTD. - HER PR-OJECTION
~1ANA4 RANH (3  ,0CC AG)
(Cedis)
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -F ro2O ct   Year  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - --- - -
2             3          J4                  6        7          8        9          10       U.        12-20
HERD COMPOSITION
ORRf170NG CnWS                  0       55        90       121       1         1657       1982      2388      2578      2578      '1578      2576      2578
BULLS                           0        15        29        40         43        50        59        72        77         77        77        77         77
CAL-VES                          0         0      328       685        929      1013      1160      1387      1671       1835      1805      1801      2805
9-24 MUINTH HEIFERS              0         0         0      161        335       455       496       568       680        819       884       50341     884
-9'24 MONTH STFERS                0         0         0       161       335       455        496       568       340       4309      4942       442      '44 2
24'36 MONTH HFIFERS              0      100       1o0       to0        208       379       496       486       557        6t,6      803       461       567
--24'36 MONTH STEERS              0         0         0         0        63       131        223       243         0          0         0         0         0
FATTENING CULL FEM               0         0        15        29        52        57        81        97        187       253       31 3      303       303
TOTAL - ADUILTS                  a      620      1122      1818      2484       3185      3834      44273     4 41 9     4803      5088      5125      5152.
- ANIMALS                 0       620      1450      2502      34 13     419 7     4994       S810      6091      660?      t892       6950      6956
B2)-TOTAL A.U.                 0        2        15       10148                35         74        34       42          66       43         81       50
PURCHASED STEERS                 0        0         50930 0                                 50        5           00                 5           0     500
TOTAL ANIMAL UINITS             0        7        15       15         58       3206       3844      4424      4376      4726       4986      52OQ      5000
MORTALITY
BREEDING cOws                   0          0        10O       20        27        29        33        40         48        52        52        52.        5;
BULLS                           0          0         0         l         I          1         I         I         1         2          22 
WEANERS                         0          0         0         7        14   ~     9        20        23         28        33        36        36         30
9-24 MONTH HEIFERS              0          0         0         0         3         7                   10        It        14        16         to        It
9'24 MONTH STEERS                0         0         0         0         3         7          9        10        it         7          8         SI 
P4'36 MONTH HEIFERS              0        a          2         2         2         4          8        10        10        11        13         it        1 7
24-36 MNOTH STEERS               0         0         0         0         0          1         3         403                                                C
FATTENING CULL FEM               0         0           o                            1         3         4         1         2          3         0 
SUB-TOTAL                       0          0         2        22        3 6       49        63         76         ?        0;4                  9         )00
PURCHASED ~TEFRS                0          0         1         .         1          1         1         11  1     1         1                              0
TOTAL                           0          0        1         23        37        50        64         77        88        08        9,        100       100
:I4HA7URE HEIFERS               0       100       100       100         50        50        50          0         0         0          0         0         0
BREEDING AGE HEIFERS             0      500       400        300       IO0       100       300       100          0         0          0         0         0
BULLS       *0                           15         16        14        10        14        20         25        21        17        17         i?        17
SUB-TOTAL                     600       615       516       414        160       164       170---125---1                  -17------------
STEERS                  ~~      ~~~       ~~~~~0 50  513  s0    50        50        50        s0         50        50        50          0         0
70TAL            ~600                   665       566       k4.6       210       214       220       175         71        67        67         17        $?
SALES
BULLS                            0         0         1         3         6          6        10        12        14        15         15        15        15
MALE YEARLINGS                  0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0       346       417       451       401        4Id
24,16 MONTH STEERS              0          0         a         0        95       197       223       243        557       333       4-01i      ,33       433
36-~8 MON7H HEIFERS                                                                                              48        5          7         7'        8
0         0         2         0         a        32        AA         4          5        6           9        8
3614a MONTH HFIFERS             0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         4       11T       233       353       410
36'48  MONTHI STEERS            0          0         0         a         0        6 2      129       219       238          a         C          0         0
FATTENING CULL FEW              -0         0         0        13        28        5 2       56         80        96       115       250       300        300
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             .
SUR-TOTAL                       0         0          1        le       129       325       450       598      1 303      1192      1916  ~ 631          165'-
PURCHASED STEERS                 0         0        89        492       49        49        49         49        49        49        49        1~ 
TOTAL                            0         0       so         67       178       374       499       647      1 352..    1241      1 4 e6   ~ 6s0       181'.
MEANING RAlE 10.00    60.00    6 5,A00    70,00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70Q, 0     70.09                            V0. 0     70.00~
ADULT MORTALITY I            0.00      2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00       2.00      2.00      2.00      2.00       2.0)      2 .00     1. 0 )    2 .5l~
TOT. OUJTPUI RATE I          0.00      0.00      0.13      0 ,9 7    5.24    10.29    11,86    13.86    30.12    25.4?   28.68    32. 63    33.3t
COWS/TOTAL HEROD             0.00    81.43    67.43    53.05    42 .3 9    39 . 48    39 .6 8    41.10    42.-3 3    39.0?    27.41          V . 06    31.01
BULL/COI4 RATID 3            0.00      3.00      3 .00     3. 00     3.00       3.00      3.00      3.00      3.00       3 .0 )    3.00      3. 00     3 . 00
COW CUJLLING RATE 3          0.00      3400O     3 .00     3.00      4.00       4.00      5.00      5.00      8.00    10.0)    32.00    '~2. 00    12.00
MULL CUL.LING RATE %         0.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    15.00    15,00    20.00    20.00    20.00    20.0)    20,00    2D.0CIO    20I.00
HEIFER CULLING RATE I  0.00            5.00      5.00      -5.00     5.00       5.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.0)    I 0 -00    ID.00    to.loJ
STOCRIING iiATE AC/A.U.      0.a00    44. 71    25. 76    16. 19    11.9 6      9. 36     7. 80     6.78      6.86       6 .3      6 . 0     4. 00     6.00i
STOCKING AATE A.U./AC        0.00      0. 02     0.04      0. 06     0.08       0.11      0.13      0. 15     0.1a       0  ).1 5  0.57      0. -I     0.17
CARRYING ,CAP, A.0.              0     1000      1500      2000       3000      4000      4500      5000      5000       500)      5000      5000      50 )v
1/  A.U.- Animal Unit   1  adult animal during 1 year.
Juine IF', 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 4
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DlVELWPhENT PROJECT
OtGhn  Livestock ComeanY, Ltd, - Invest-at Cost. and Phasine
Pono Taste RAnch (31.400 AC)
(Cedis)
Assets
Umit             Tkbeo -rean       1                  2                  3                  4                   5
Cost          No            No                No                  No                 No                 No                  No               Total
Building
Reuses - Mi. ag_n                          25,000                   -     1    25,00O              -                  -                  -                   -            1               25,000
- cosisteat  -na-gr                 15,000                  -      1    15,000             -                   -                  -                  -            1               15,000
- Veterinary Asoistast               N,000                  -     I      8,000             -                  -                   -                               1                8,000
- Clock                              8,000                          1   8,000             -                  _                   _                  _            1                8,000
- Skilled Lakbr   1/                 3,000                  -     8    24,000              -                  -                   -                  -            8               24 000
Offices                                    12,000                   -     1    12,000              -                  -                  -                   -            1               12,000
Quar-ntine Station                          5,000                   -            5,000             -                  - O                                    -            1                5,000
Stores and Garages                         25,000                   _           25,000             -                  -                   -                  -                            25,000
Workshop                                    5.000                   -            5'000                                                                                    1                5000
Subtota1                                                     -         127,000              -                  -                  -                                              127,000
Fencing sad Stock Handling Oscilitios
Fencing (miles) 2/                            400           6    550    21       8,400      10    4,000         10    4,000        10    4,000               -           51               20,950
Oips                                        8,000                   -     1      8,000             -                  -                  -            1      8,000        2               16,000
Gathering Yarda                             4,000                   -     1      4,000             -                  -                   -            1     4,000        2                8,000
Cattle Crubsho                              1,000                   -     I      1,000             -                                      -1                 1,n0O        2                2,000
Leading Rampo                               1,000                  I-            1.000       _     --                                                    1  1 000         2                2.000
Subtot.1                                                                22,400             4,000               4,000              4,000             14,000                        48,950
Pirebreaks and Tracks
Firebreaks (miles) Il                          130                  -    20      2,600      20    2,600         20    2,600        20    2,600               -           80               10,400
T-seks (miles)                                 550                  -     6      3,300       4    2.200         _     -_           -      -                              10                5.500
Subtotal                                                                 5,900             4,800               2,600              2,600                                           15,900
Watering Funiliti-s
Dugouta (lo6 gallons)                       5,000                         4    20,000              -                  -             4   20,000               -            8               40,000
Wotor Troiler (7O gallons)                  2,500                         1      2,500             -                  -             1    2,500               -            2                5,000
T-oughk                                       200                        10      2.000             _                  _            10    2.000               -           20                4.ooo
Subtotal                                                                24,500             -                   -                 24,500              -                            49,000
P-astere  mp rovem- nt
Land Clearing sod Preparatieo  for
Sowins (or) 4/                               50                   -             -        500   25,000        500   25,000       500   25,000               -       1,500                75,000
Fertilioer (an) 5/                              14                  _             -        500    7,000        500    7,000       500    7,000               -       1,500                21,000
Seed (or) 6/                                    20                  -             -        500   10,000        500   10,000       500   10,000               -       1,500                30,000
Pe-ticide (or) 7/                               6-                                         500    3.000        500    3,000       500    3.000                       1,500                 9.000
Subtotal                                                     -            -               45,000              45,000             45,000               -                          135,000
Vehiclen and Fquiprent
Land Rover (or equivalent)                  9,000                   _     1      q,900             -                  -                   -                               I                9 000
Trunk (7 tor)                              10,000                   -     1    10,000              -                  _                  _                   -            1               10,000
Trantort   (60-70 hp)                       7,000                   -     1      7,000       1    7,000               -                  -                   -            2               14,000
Trailera (5 ton)                            1,800                   -     1      1,800       1    1,800               -                  -                   -            2                3,600
Dtsc Pleugh (3 forrowa)                       800                   -     1        8000       1       00-                                 -                  -            2                1,600
Disc harrow                                 1,000                   -     1      1,000        1    1,000              -                   _                  -            2                2,000
Levelling H rrow                               700                  -     1        700             -                  -                   _                  _            1                  700
Fertili-er Spre-der                           600                   -     1        600        1      600              -                   -                  -            2                1,200
Seed iDrill                                 2,400                   -     1      2,400             -                  -                   _                  -            1                2,400
Rotary Slasker                              1,200                   -     1      1,200        1    1,200              -                   -                  -            2                2,400
Rotary buth Cutter                          2,500                   -     1      2,500        1    2,500              -                   -                  -            2                5,000
Weighing Scales                              2,000                  -      1     2,000             -                  -             1    2,000               -            2                4,000
Workshop Equipment                            -                     -            1,000             -                  -                   -                  -                             1,000
Veterinary Equipment                          -                     -              500             -                  -                   -                  -                               500
Office Equip-ent                              -                     -              800             -                  -                   -                  -                               800
Radio Transmitter                           3,000                   -     1      3,000             -                  -                   _                  -            1                3,000
Other Equipment                               -                     -            2,000             2,000              -                   -                  _                             4,000
Spare Part                                                                       2     000       _  1000-                              -           -                                       3.000
Subtotal                                                   _48300                         17,900              - -                 2, 000                                          68,200
TOTAL                                                     550          228.100             1,700              51 600             78 100             14 000                       444.050
NOTES:
1/ Houses for I meohanie, 1  -ason/n-rpenter, I storekeeper, 4 drivers, and 1 head herdes
2/   Includes nonstr"tion material, tr nsport and lab.
3/ Averane width abont 15 yrds.
4/ Assume, that final seed bad preparation, fertiliser distribution and swing ia done by the ranch.
5/ Assumes application of 25 owt nuperphosphate/e at s-wing sod 25 est/se euperphospate 4-6 mo-the lter.
6/ 10 lb/a..
7/ 1 gallon/an.
Htay 28, 1971,



ANIEx 4
GANAI                                                   Table 5
LIVES30CK DEVBLOPMhlT PROJECT
GHANA LIIBTOCK CaOANY LTD. - IWETNElIT COSTS AMI  iUASIG
TiDZhM R          5,000 AC)
(Cedi3s)
-__ ------------ Project Year------------
Asset Taken            1               2               3               4
Unit Cost No.   Ore          No.            No.            No.             No.            No.  Total
Buildings
Houses - Veterinary Assistant                            8,000                                             - 8,000                               1    8,000
Clerk                                          8,0oo            -          1    8,0o0                                                   I    8,0oo
Skilled Labor /1                               3,000            -          8   24,000                                  1       3,000   8  27,000
Offices                                                 12,000          6,ooo               -               -              -               -             -
Quarantine Station                                       5,000   1      2,500               -
Stores and Garages                                      25,000        12,500                -
Workshop                                                 5,000   1      2,500                       -                                                    -
Rehabilitation of Buildings Taken Over                                    -             10.000              -              _               _         10.000
Sub-Total                                                     23.500            50.o00             -              -            3,000         53,000
Fencing and Stock Handling Facilities
Fencing (miles) /2                                         400   6     1,200        6    2,400    6      2,400   6      2,400   6        2,400   24   9,600
Dip                                                      8,o00    1     4,000               -      1      8,0oo            -                      1   8,000
Gathering Yard                                           4,000   1      2,000                             4,000            -                      1   4,000
Cattle Crush                                             1,000   1        500               -      1      1,000            -                      1   1,000
Loading Ramp                                             1,000   1       500                -      1     1,000             -                      1   1o000
Sub-Total                                                      8,200             2,o00          16.400          2,400           2,400        23.600
Firebreaks and Tracks
Firebreaks (miles)  /3                                     130            -          5      700    5        600            -                          1,300
Tracks (miles)                                             550           -          5    2,800    4    2.200                                          5,ooo
Sub-Total                                                                        3.500           2.800            -                           6,300
Watering Facilities A
Sub-Total                                                                       20.500          20o000         20,000          20,?00        80,500
Vehicles and Equioment
Landrover (or equivalent)                                9,000            -          1   9,                 -              - s                   1    9,000
Truck (7-ton)                                          10,000             -          1  10,000              -              -               -     1   10, 000
Tractors (60-70 hp)                                      7,000            -          1   7,000              -              -                     1    7,000
Trailers                                                1,800            -          1   1,800              -               -                     1    1,800
Disc Harrow                                              1,000            -          1   1,000              -              -               -     I    1,000
Rotary Bush-cutter                                       2,500            -          1    2,500             -              -               -     1    2,500
Weighing Scale                                           2,000            -          1   2,000      1    2,000             -               -      2    4, 000
Workshop Equipment                                                        -               1,000             -              -               -           1,000
Veterinary Fquipment                                                      -                 500             -              -               -             500
Offiae Equipment                                                          -                 800             -              -               -             80o
Radio Transmitter                                        3,000            -          1   3,000              -              -               -      1    3,000
Other Equipment                                                           -               2,000           2,O0O            -               -           4,000
Spare Parts                                                               -               2,200          1i000             -               -           3,200
Sub-Total                                                                       42800            5,000            -               -          47.8oo
To TAL                                                        31,700           l119200          44,200         22,400          251400       211.200
/1  Houses would serve as lodging for 1 mechanic, 1 mason/carpenter, 1 storekeeper, 4 drivers and 1 head herO=an.
2 Includes construction material, transport and labor cost.
/3 Average width about 15 yards.
70 The feasibility study did not reach appraisal requirements. Therefore, a special stucy will be necessary in project year one which
is estimated to require 3 man-months of which 15 months will be spent in Ghana.  The costs of the mission are estimated at:
3 man-months            x           0 5,500 =       0 16,500
1 return flight ticket Europe-Accra         =          1,100
Rent and operating costs of 1 Landrover   =            1,500
Miscellaneous and typing and printing
of report-                                         1. 4o0
Total                0 20,500
Implementation of this mission's recommendation cannot be estimated now but, for appraisal purposes, a figure of r 20,000 for years 2
through 4 has been assumed.
June 17, 1973



CI         C                                     CCCOCCCCCCOCCCCCCCC  C o
H                  or         a  CC C  CC        C C  CCC 88 CCCCCCCCCOC  C OCOCCO  C C
CI    CCC C  C   CCC   C  CCC C g  CCCCCCCCCC   *C CC    C
C                       C                       -  C
5cc, c  cc8  8 8  800CCCCCCCCCCCCC  OCCOCOC    C
CC        "C     CCC
C              C     -
C  C          8                       C          C   C   C
C                                        C          C   C  C
-3    C          C                       -
C                                         -              C
2                                                                                                  o
C                                      0                                     0
8                                      C
C        C                                                                                  C
C                                         3
0                                                        C
C      C  C  C   C   C  CCC C C                                          C    3
C      C  C  C-   C   C  CCC C C                                         C    C
C ,,,r,r,',HrC'' C C, C C,  CCC C C                                                          C
C      C  C  C   C   C  CCC C c                                          C
C  C   -                                   C    3
C                      c           a       -        CCC    C
3 0                                                 CCC    C
C  =                                                C C C  C                                          0
0                                                                                                    0
2      C.                                                                                                    0.
C'   3                                                                                                     3
 CC C C                                    C
8      8  888
CC C C                                     C
- 'C                               C CC C    CCC C C
C      C  CC .0             CCC C C                                      C    0     0
-3   3     3
                              -          -                CCC CC  CCC    C                                  .3   .3
.3        C
C         C  C       C      C             CCC C C      C CCC   C      CC        CC C
C                 C             CCC C C      C CCC   C      CC C8  -  -  CCC  C    CC       C
C              CC C             CCC C C  , ,C,CCC            CC,     CC
C                                C          CC                CCC    C
0                                      C                 CCC    C
8                  C         C  CCCCC  C  CC C  CCC   C  CCC C C  CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC  C
C                            C  CC CCC      CC C  CCC   C  CCC C C  C C CCCCCCC CC CCC CCC CCCCCCC C
ss 8                                             ss
,      C  CCC         CC .0  CCC' C  CCC C C  CCCCC'C CCCCC C CCCCCCCCCC  C
C C  CCC"  C  .00 C  CCCC   CCC C C  CCCCCOCC,3CCCC.3CCCCC  CC C
CC    .3CC       CCC    CC.OCCCCCCCCC,3'CCC , ,
CCC C CCC   C                        C C
o  888 CCC C CCC   C                        C C
CCC CCCCCCC ' C    ,,,,, C C                                                                   -3CC
OCCCCCCCCCC   .3                            C C                                                     0 C
* CC.-4,.3CCCCCC                                                                                       C C.  0
CCCCCCCCCC        CCCCC       CC     CCCC      CCC    C  CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC    CC
CCCCCCCCCC        CCCCC      CC      CCC       CC     C  CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC    CC                 033  00   C
o  CCCCCCCCCC        ..OCCCC     CC      CCC                  CCCCCCCCC.CCCCCCCC  ' CC             3CC  CC   C
0  CCC CCCCCCC         CCCC             CC                   CCCC- -   CCCCCCC    C
CI  0                              C.       C.C    C
303 C *3C   C 3                  - 3.3C    3 0        3J 03
30     C                  0      C C C       C       C  C    0,    .30C.3.,.
  '                                                             CCC C. 0 C
03   0               03-3. ..       - C     3 CC3CO'-33            33030.CO..CC              3-30.00
30   0 C .00 3   .3000.3-03  C C CC.   C C  C-3C    C 0.3  333333 00...
1                                          300.03
-333  .3030.0-30  3333 0 3 3 C 0 3C1 C- 0 0 C0C30303.C.3  00330-3CC
3.0>0.0  CC  30              33..   3.3.  -   33        33     C 333C   CO
.1      00 33                .3.33      0 C     0 3    3  3      03C03.-. OCCO   30CC.-3-            033.3 CC
30        0 0    303333030303'"- CCCCCOU.j,C3
3310  -0  0CC0.=3-0  333-33.3-33  0. 3    I   . <<COO   C
3  30.3               33      3                 - C,33C0.C333    3 03I-.0                 030033   C
0C                    *33. 333<3000003.33 C 3333
303033                .3.3.3    3          C    *3  3.3-333CC3303333.333 .0330        I
30*3                      C4333.OOZCZCCCOCCCOZC          -333C.-3VflC.0I0iCICI  C



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCK C014PANY LTD. - REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
PONG TA4ALE RA4CH
(Cedis)
Unit Price
-------------------------------------Project Year ---------------------------- -------
Year:   1         20                   1        2        3         4         5         6         7         8         9      10-20
. _ _ . _ _ _                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-                                                                - -  -  . -  -   
SALF OF COLL
cows                     175     245.00               69306   950)8.    6123.    8592-   11394.   22Y1.U  258i1.   33791.   3S.29.1..  L4153.
BllLS                    245     3(00.00                864.    1039.       345.     443      179.U79.     118 J  1 643-.    8911.    20        2731.
HEIFERS 24-36            175     195.00                1286.    1387.    1529.    2182.    3103.    802'5.   '94,4.   10592   Io)S92.   10811.
......   ....       .   .   ..________.____  ......---_______...     _______..                .._., ..
S1uBT0TAL  1                                            9081a  11934.    7998.   11217.   15576.  32119.   3726d*.  46294.   48524.   5 7'75.
..........______._._..............................___...-__-___._.... .........___.....___
SALE nF SIiPPLIIS
NEJFFRS   9-24           115    14Q.0                    O   U   0.          0.    8022.    9561.  11906.   12buU.   13311.   13823.   14335.
HEIFERS 24-36            190    215.00                   .U         U. a      U         U.   20793.   2519u   3033W.   3S6'30.   38650.   3',571.
STEERS 24-36             190    210.00                   o0         U.       .U         U.        u.        0.        0.         .        0. 
STFERS 36-48             230    245.00                6762.   22089.   35718*  40255.   55840.   7941u9   1U2028.  t21967.  1311 22   13 8S%.
PuRCHASFD STEERS           190    220.00                  O   18620u   1862U.   19110*   19110.   19600.   1y6uU.   17978d                0.        O
SlBTOTAI 2                                              6762.   40709.   54338.   67387.  105304.  136105. 17276U.  t91907.  143595.  18it750
TOTAL REVENUE                                         15e43.   52643.   62336.   78604. 120880   168224.  210021.  238201. 23210.  2L55 ..
EXPFNrIIT TRE
.PliRCHASt OF
ItW4ATOiF HEIFERS        120    120.00               6000.    6000U    60U00       5705.         U.        0.        0.        j         0 .       )
8REFnAR8LE.HEIFFRS        220    270.00              22000.   2200U.  22000U   22000.             0.        Us        U.                  0. Of      J.
Pllt LS                   300    300.00                2258.    3527.    2818      2866.    2502.    1644.    23Z7.    13;'.    3009.    3(0, .
STFERS                    120    120.00              12000.   12000.   1200U0    1200U0    12000.   12000.   1U738.              J.        0         J
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                      42258.   43527.   42818.   42572.   14502.   13644.   130,5.    232rI.    3o09.    iO300
INVFNTORY VALUE                                      262643.  347811.  423894.  532755.  597684* 6596416 702702. 733983.  735188* 754264.
Purchase price (75% of selling price)                 1970'.   261000    318000   400000    448000    495000   527000    550000   551000    566000
Jun.e 18, 1973
CDI



GHANk
LIVSTOCR DEVE;OPMNNT PROJECT
GHkNAl tIVEST0CK C0NPANY LID. - REWKNUI AND SXPISDURlE FROIS LIVTOCK 81A.T3 AND PQRCHkS35
TADZ5W RANCH
(Cedig)
Unit Price
--   -------- ---Project Year----- ___-_____-_
.......Year:   1        20                 1         2        3         14       5        6         7         8         9     10-20
SAJF OF CIOLL
MINS                     175   2A5.o)               8663.   1885.   5739.    7887.    9244.   19436.   20384.  21333.  26964,  30196.
BULLS                    245   300,00               1201*      974.      31?.     359.      733*     747*    1551k   1609.    14'.6.    1724.
HEIFERS 36-40.           195   210.00                669.    1489.    206b.    2141.    2227.    2895.    6599.    6599.    6599.    4760.
StIFTnTAL     I               .........................................___..___-_-..............................----............------._........................  -_ ......... __
SUP!rITAL 2                                         10532.   14348.    8120.   10387.  12203.   23078.   26534.  19540o  37229.  35b83.
....... .......................... ,__......___...___... __......__ ......_._......___.........__
SALE nF SURPLUS
M4IF WFANERS              60     80.00 OO                        0.        0.        0.       0.   11970.   11970.   2825*  12825.   13680.
HEIFERS 24'36            190   215.00                   0.       0.        U.        O.       O         O.       0.        0.       0.        0.
ETIFFRS 36-48.           215   230.00                   0.       U.    9261.   29918.   2117?.   3593?.   39241s  32777.  3Z777.   33505,
SlEERS  9-24             120    140.00                  0.      O    1176* .    1104.   36927.         0.       0.        0.       0.        0.
STFERS 24-36             190    210.00                  0.       Us.       0.        (.       O.  45d61.   3VS47    3366S*  33669.   34490.
STfERS 36-48             230    245.00             22540.   40865.  48707.   *8O62.   13453.            0.        DO       of       0.        0.
SUBTOTA!  2                                         22540.   40865.   59163.  99084.   71556.   93774.  84059.  79271.  79271.   5l675.
tOTAL RFVENUE                                       33072.   55213   67284. 109471.  83760. 116852. 11259i.                1     16500. 120355.
__,_.,...............__ ... _._.........._ ..._._...... Z_._............ ....... ................. ... .._,,... 
EXPE wn I TIORE
.PIRCA"F OF
tI4MATOtWE HEIFERS       120    120a00              6UOO.         o.       O.        0.       0.        0.         .       O.        O.       0.
BULLS                    130   300.00                 204.    3139.    1431.       607.    1038.   1038.    190u.    1900.          00     1900.
TOTAL EXP~~......................TURC ............                                  .      .       .      .. .*...
TOTAL  EXPESNITURtE                                   6204.   3139.    1431.        607.    1038.   1038.    1900.    1900.   1900.   1900.
* S O....0 *..............0                                                           0................... .-
INVENTORY VALUE                                 ' 299843. 33571i, 360474. 360728. 373098. 381388. 389167. 40592&. 414024. 424614.
Purchase price (75% of selling price)               225000    252000   270000    270000   279000    286000   292000    3014000   310000  318000
June 18, 1973



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJBET
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY LTD. - REVENUE AND EXPENDI1IRE FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
BRA.NAM RANCH
(Cedis)
Unit PriceProject Year--
Year:  1       20                1           2       3         4        5        6         7        8        9                11-20
REVENUE
SALE OF CULL
coWs                     175   245eO0        Ot        0        0.   2572.    5266.   10047.   11512.   17283   Z1630.   4354ho  (f280a  73536*
BULLS                    245   300,00       0         0.       0.        0.       0.        O        0         0.       0.        0        of        0.
HEIFERS 36-48            195   210OO         O         0.      0U.       O       0    1544.    6443e    8966.    9772.   I119i   13709   16517.
SUBTOTAL I                                     O(       Ot      0O    2572.    5266.   11591.   179556  26249.  31402.   54739   74989e  90053.
SALE OF SURPLUS
MALE WVANFRS              60-  80,00          Oc      OQ         Oc      O       O         Of       0.       O  25950.   31 75   36080   36080.
HEIFERS 36'48            215   230eOQ         Oc       0        0e        0.       Ol        O        0.        0.     8909        lo  5 354 6  81217.
STEERS 2k 36             190   21A00         Q         0        0         0.   18439.  38462.   446286  48641.  114189   68278a   842Y94  90992*
STEERS 3G,48             230   245c00        0         Q0       0.        0.       0.   14518.   30283.   52482.  t7202            U.       0.       U.
rURCHASED STEERS           190  210 00         O        Qe    9310.    9310s   9555e    9555.   9800U    9800.   10045    10O4b.  10290.  1029U.
SUBTOTAL 2                                     0.       0.    9310&   9310.   279946  62534.   84710.  110923* 208195   151691.  184180. 218579.
TOTAL REVENUE                                  0t       Qe    9310   11882.   33259.   74126. 102666.  137172.   239597   26 31. 25916. 38632
root cc- .      0 .. ...... . .~Se   . .....a .&S                              .SC * 
EXPENDITURE
...... ........ ... 
PURCHASE' OF
IMMATUREt HEIFERS         120   120.00       O  12000     12000.   12000    6000.    6000.    6000 .                   0.         *       C        0.
BREEDABLE HEIfERS         220  220.00        0  110000.   88000.  66000.  22000.  22000.   22000#  22000                 0          *       G        U'
BULLS                     300   300.00        0.    4544.   4794.    4186.    3070.    4065.   6143,    7505    6356    S0;L   5012    5012.
STEERS   Z                120   120.00        00   6000.    6000.    6000s   6000         6 6000.      6000. 6000    6000           a    600C.     0
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                             0  132544.  110794.  88186.   37070.   38065.  40143&  35505   1 356   IIt%'e   I 10  .    5012*
.a~~................
INVENTORY VALUE                                   131265. 248357. 366334. 483343. 617204. 768144. 904393. 943773.10291961 IlQS36,1124303s
Purchase price (75% of selling price)                980oO    186000   275000  363000   463000   576000  678000   708000 772000   833000   843000
June 18, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 10
G8A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCg CO. LTD. - RANCH OPERATIXG COSTS
PONG  t2ALE RANCH (31.400  AC)
(Cedis)
-----------------------------------------Project Year-----------------------------------------------
OPERATINC COSTS                            Unit Cost            1                2                3                4                 5                6                7-20
Salaries and Wage,
Manager                                      3,500              3,500            3,500            3,500            3,500             3,500            3,500             3.500
Assistant Manager                            2,000              2,000            2,000            2,000            2,000             2,000            2,000             2,000
Veterinary Assistant                         1,500              1,500            1,500             1,500            1,500            1,500            1,500             1,500
Clerk                                        1,200              1,200            1,200            1,200            1,200             1,200            1,200             1,200
Mechanic                                       800                0oo              800              800               800              800              800               800
Mason/Carpenter                                800                800              800               800              800              800              800               800
Storekeeper                                    600                600              600              600               600              600              600               600
Drivers                                        600              2,400            3,000            3,000             3,000            3,000            3,000             3,000
Head Herdsmen                                  600              1,200            1,200            1,200            1,800             1,800            2,400             2,400
Laborer and Guards                             400              2,000            2.000            2.000             .                                   000             2,000
Subtotal                                                       16,000           16,600           16,600           17,200            17,200           17,800            17,800
Maintenance and Replacesint
Buildings                                                        -               1,300            1,300             3,200            3,200            3,200             3,200
Fencing and Handling Pacilities 1/                                240            2,500            2,900            3,300             3,700            5,100             5,109
Tracks                                                           -                 400               700              900            1,100            1,100             1,0
Watering Facilities                                              -                 600              600               600            1,200            1,200             1 l2
Pasture Maintenance                                              -                -                 -                -              20,500           20,000            20 000
Vehicles and Equipnent                                          4.800           11.5D0           13.200            13.400           13.600           13.600            13
Subtotal                                                        5,040           16,300           18,700           21,400           42,800            44,200            44,200
Vehicle Running
Land Rover (or equiv-le-t)                                      1,500            1,500            1,500            1,500             1,500            1,500             1,500
Truck                                                           1,500            1,500            1,500             1,500            1,500            1,500             1,500
rractor                                                         3,000            6.000            6.000            6.000             6.000            6.D00             6.000
Subtotal                                                        6,000            9,000            9,000            9,000             9,000            9,000             9,000
General and Administrative
Land Rent  2/                                00.30/ac           3,800            6,000            6,000             7,500           10,000           10,000            10,000
Office Expenses                                                 2.000            2.000            2.000             2.000            2,000            2,000             2 000
Subtotal                                                        5,800            8,000            8,000             9,500           12,000           12,000            12,000
Variable Costs (per animal unit)
Drugs and Minerals                               4              5,900            7,300            8,900            11,000           12,200           13,400            14,000
Herd-sen                                         2              3,000            3,600            4,500             5,500            6,100            6,700             7,000
Miscellaneous                                    1              1.500            1,800            2.200             2  700           3.100            3.300             3,500
Subtotal                                                       10.400           12.700           15.600            19.200           21.400           23.400            24.500
Total Operating Costs                                          43.240           62.600           67,900            76,300          102.400          106,400           107.500
Investment Written-Off
Firebreak. and Tracks                                           5,900            4,800             2,600            2,600             -                -                  -
Pasture Im.provement                                             -              45.000           45,000           45.000
Total Investments Written-Off                                   5.900           49.800           4I760            47,600              -                - 
NOTES:
I/ Maintenance of fences taken over 40 per aile and year.
2/ Acreages: year 1: 12,800; year 2; 20,000; year 3: 20,000; year 4: 25,000; year 5, 31,400.
May 28, 1974



GCIAN A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCK CO. LTD. - RANCH OPERATING COSTS
TADZEWU RANCH (15.000 AC)
(Cedin)
Unit            ----Pro----------e-------------Project Year-------------------------------------
OPERATING COSTS                                  Cost               1               2               3               4                5             6-20
Salaries and Wages
Manager                                          3,500            3.500           3,500           3,500            3,500           3,500           3,500
Ass-stant Manager                                2,000            2,000           2,000           2,000           2,000            7,000           2,000
Veterinary Assistant                             1,500            1,500           1,500           1,500            1,500           1,500           1,500
Clerk                                            1,200            1,200           1,200           1,200            1,200           1,200           1,200
mechanic                                            800             800             800             800              800             800              800
Mason/Carpenter                                    800              800             800             800              800             800             800
Storekeeper                                        600              600             600             600              600             600             600
Drivers                                             600           2,400           2,400           2,400            2,400           2,400           2,400
Head Herdsnen                                       600           1,200           1,200           1,200            1,800           1,800           1,800
Laborer and Cuards                                 400           2.000            2.000           2.000           2,000            2,000           2,000
Subtotal                                              16.000          16,000          16,000           16,600          16,600          16.600
Maintenance and Replacement
Buildings                                                           -               900             900            2,200           2,200           2,300
Fencing and Stockhandling Fa-ilities                              1,600           1,900           3,500            3,800           4,000           4,000
Tradks                                                              -               200             400              400             400              400
Watering Facilities                                                 -               -               500            1,000           1,500            1,500
Vehicles and Equip-ent                                           4.100            8,600           9,000            9,000           9,000           9.000
S,,btotal                                              5.700          11,600          14.300           16,400          17,100          17.200
Vehicle Running
Landrover or Equivalent                                           1,500           1,500            1,500           1,500           1,500            1,500
Trock                                                             1,500           1,500            1,500           1,500           1,500            1,500
Tractors                                                         3 _OO            3.000           3.000            3000           3.000            3.000
Subtotal                                               6.000           6,000            6.000           6.000           6,000            6.000
General and Administration
Land Rent                                     Z 0.20/ac           3,000           3,000           3,000            3,000           3,000           3,000
Office Expenses                                                   2.000           2.000           2.000            2.000            2.000           2.700
Subtotal                                               5.000           5.ooo            5.000           5.000           5I OO            5.700
Variable Costs (per animal unit)
Drugs and Minerals                                    4           6,500           7,200            7,600           7,600           7,700            7,600
Herdsmen                                              2           3,200           3,600            3,800           3,800           3,800            3,800
MisIellaneous                                         1           1,600           1,800            1.900           1,900            1,900           1,900
Ssht.tel                                              11.300          12.600           13,300          13,300           13,400          13.300
TOTAL. OFERATIUG COSTS                                           44,OOo          51.200           54,.600         57.40O           57,100          58.80
INVESTMENTS WRITTEN-OFF
Firebreaks and Tracks                                             3,500           2,800             -               -
Watering Facilities Study                                        2,0
TOTAL INVESTMENTS WRITTEN-OFF                                    24,000           2,800             -                                 -               -
June 11, 1973



mb ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ 0 .0 N            0S oSO 9g                                                 oo  a       S8^oe                      o So8 8oSo                e   
So                 8   80          l           *.0  s0  000  0   84           ooo84   0    o 0  R     0
e Z ~~N                      NO  Cl          0   R   o       r     
n 0C0~           0 ;CO 0s                                                    00    -   8S o*      oO8
rl~~ 00  ;                                   N      0            -   -         R 0    ~a<     
*           04 .0 0  0w_--_        0o           000   0     04    0          CC  -           0 0 00                -N
i~~~                            0   00  Or.               000 0; C_               0       N 40    404   0 '0'           <sw ea
~~~~r4_____b_0  0                                                                                                                lNSwr     0, jwtSoa  
0"             S8884888                                                     00            w --
a~~~~~                               0             0a             44 0s          000        40 4    0  C           40
n~~~~~ ~  i,  .R                             *** _~ _ _  O
0  00     C    .0    0004~
0 0  4                   r   4         o              44   0        000    0    40.40   0   0  0       000c
00           00      C4u # X   j 1.t.-         i*  ,d                                                                      | 0  9 9



ANNEX 4
Table 13
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Adjustment of Base Prices to January 1974 Levels
Operating Costs              Adjustment        Investment Costs             &dJustment
Salaries and Wages              + 10           Buildings                        + 20
Maintenance and Replacement                    Fencing and handling             + 20
- Civil works                + 20           Firebreaks and tracks            + 20
- Vehicles and equipment    + 12.5          Improved pastures                  0
- Pasture maintenance 2/       0            Selective land cleared          + 5
Vehicle running                 + 20           Vehicles & Equipment             + 12.5
General and Administrative                     Water study                      + 5
- Land rent                    0            Herd                             + 20
- Office expenses            + 10           Preparation of Future Project  + 5
Variable Costs                                 Overseas training                + 5
- Drugs and minerals         + 20
- Herdsmen and miscellaneous + 10
Maize
- Casual labor               + 10
- Seed                       + 20
- Fertilizer 1/              - 40
- Pesticides                 + 20
- Herbicides                 + 20
- Miscellaneous              + 10
1/  Fertilizers are subsidized by Government to a price of 2.80 per cwt for the farmer,
equivalent to a 40% reduction of the March 1973 prices.
2/  Assuming 40% reduction in fertilizer prices and 20% increase in prices for seeds
and pesticides.
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 4
Table 14
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY. LTD. - RANCG  OPERATING STATBMENTS
------_ _-------------------------------------- Prject Yea----------------------------------------ea                         ----------------
1           2           3           4           5           6            7          8           9           10            11           12-20
Sales
Pong Tamale - cattle                   19.0         63.2        74.8        92.4       145.1       201.8        252.0      285.8       278.5        294.6         294.6         294.6
Tad.ewo - cattle                       39.7         66.2        80.8       131.4       100.6       140.3        135.1      130.6       139.8        144.5         144.5         144.5
Branas  - cattle                          -         11.2        14.3        40.0        88.9       123.2        164.6      287.5       247.7        311.0         370.3         375.2
- aaice                      367.0        367.0       367.0       367.0       367.0       367.0        367.0      367.0       367.0        367.0         367.0         367.0
Total Sales                           425.7        507.6       536.9       632.6       701.6       832.3        918.7   1,070.9      1.033.0    1JJJ.1         1,176.4        1.181.3
Increase in Herd Value
Pong Tamale                            68.4         77.0        68.0        98.0        58.0        56.0         38.0       28.0         1.0         18.0            -              -
Tadzewu                               (18.0)        32.0        22.0          -         11.0         8.0          7.0       14.0         7.0         10.0            -
Bransm                                117.6        106.0       107.0       106.0       120.0       136.0        122.0       36.0        77.0         73.0          12.0
Total Increase in Herd Value          168.0        215.0       197.0       204.0       189.0       200.0        167.0       78.0        85.0        101.0          12.0             -
Cattle Purchases
Pong Tamale                           102.2         52.2        51.4        51.1        17.4        16.3         15.7        2.8         3.6          3.6           3.6           3.6
Tadoese                                  7.5         3.7         1.7         0.7         1.2          1.2         2.3        2.3         2.3           2.3          2.3           2.3
Branam                                159.0        133.0       105.8        44.5        45.7        48.1         42.6       14.9        13.2          13.2          6.0           6.0
Total Cattle Purchases                268.7       188.9        158.9        96.3        64.3        65.6         60.6       20.0        19.1         19.1          11.9          11.9
Ranch Operating Costs
Pong Ta.ale                            48.6         70.7        76.8        86.3       112.9       117.7        119.0      119.0       119.0        119.0         119.0         119.0
Tadoesw                                49.6         57.8        61.9        65.1        66.0        66.8         66.8       66.8        66.8         66.8          66.8          66.8
Branam                                176.0       211.2        219.5       238.9       245.2       261.4        273.3      273.3       273.3        273.3         273.3         273.3
Total Ranch Operating Costs           274.2        339.7       358.2       390.3       424.1       445.9       459.1       459.1       459.1        459.1         459.1         459.1
Investments Written Off
Pong Tamale                             7.1         50.8        48.1        48.1          -            -           -          -           -             -            -             -
Tad-ees                                25.7          3.4          -           -           -            -
8ranam                                 35.9         32.0        40.8        38.2        15.8        15.8
Total Investments Written Off          68.7        86.2         88.9        86.3        15.8        15.8
Ranch Operating Profits
Pong Tamale                           (70.5)       (33.5)      (33.5)        6.7        72.8       123.8        155.3      192.0       156.9        190.0         172.0         172.0
Tadzewu                               (61.1)       33.3         39.2        65.6        44.4        80.3         73.0       75.5        77.7         85.4          75.4          75.4
Braram                                113.7       108.0        122.2       191.4       269.2       300.9        337.7      402.3       405.2        464.5         470.0         462.9
Total Ranch Operating Profits         (17.9)      107.8        127.9       263.7       386.4       505.0        566.0      669.8       639.8        739.9         717.4         710.3
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 4
Table 15
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVEIIPMENT PROJECT
Ghana Livestock Company, Ltd.
Head Office Investments and Expenses
(Cedis)
PYear Project                                         Year
1                    1 - 5                6 - 20
Investments
Motor car                      6,800
Office furniture and
equipment                    11,300
Radio transmitter              3,400
Total Investments           21,500
Expenses
Salaries
General Manager                                    41,200                 13,200
Chief Accountant                                    9,4oo                  9,400
Development Manager                                35,800                  8,ooo
Bookkeeper                                          3,800                  3,800
Secretary                                           1,300                  1,300
Telephonist/Typist                                     900                   900
Messenger                                              600                   600
(Allocated to ranches)                             (3,800)                (3,800)
Subtotal                                        89,200                33,400
Repairs and renewals
Motor car                                            1,400                 1,400
Furniture and equipment                             2,000                  2,000
Car running expenses                                  1,800                  1,800
Office rent                                            4,000                 4,000
Utilities                                                600                   600
Postage, telephone, cables                               500                   500
Legal and professional                                 1,000                 1,000
Audit                                                  2,000                 2,000
Insurance                                             2,000                  2,000
Travel                                                 2,000                 2,000
Miscellaneous                                          1,000                 1,000
Subtotal                                        18,300                18,300
Total Expenses                                 107,500                51,700
May 28, 1974



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY, LTD. - PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENTS
(e '000.)
1          2           3            4           S          6           7          8          9           10         11          12         13          14          15         16          17         18          19         20
Ranch Operating Profit                            (17,9)    107.8         127.9        263.7      386.4       505.0      566.0       669.8      639.8       739.9       717.4       710.3      710.3       710.3      710.3       710.3       710.3      710.3       710.3      710.3
Intere-t Received                                     -         5.4        21 4         36.2       41.3        42.2       42 2        42.2       38.0        27.4        16.9         63         -           -           -                      -          -           -           -
Sub-total              (17. 9)    113.2        149.3       299.9       427.7      547.2       608.2      712.0       677.8      767.3        734.3      716.6       710.3      710 3       710.3      710.3       710.3       710.3      710.3       710.3
Heed OMfice Expen-e                               107.5       107.5       107 5        107.5      107.5        51 7       51.7        51.7       51.7        51.7        51.7        51.7       51.7        51.7        51.7       51.7        517       51.7        51.7        51.7
Interest Paid: - Govern- ent deb-ntures            16.0        16.0        16 0         16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0        16 0       16.0        16 0        16.0        16.0       16 0        16.0        16 0       16 0        16 0       16.0        16 0        16.0
- Co  iercial BRnk debenures        -         8.0         16.0         16 0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0        16.0        16.0        16.0       16 0       16.0        16 0        16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0        16.0
- IDA Loan                        28.4       71.7        102.3       129.3       140 6      140.6       134.9      131.5       121.9      110.9         98.9        84 9       69.9        53.9       36.9        17 9        -
- Overdraft                         _           _           -           0.3        4.5         5.0        1.0                           -          -           -                                       -           -          -                 -          -
Snlb-totel             151.9      203.2        241.8       269.1       284.6      229.3       219.6      215.2       205.6      194.6        182.6      168.6       153.6      137.6       120.6      101.6        83.7        83.7       83.7        83.7
Profit Before Tax                                (169.8)   (90.0)         (92.5)        30.8      143.1       317.9      388.6       496.8      472.2       572.7       551.7       548.0      556.7       572.7      589.7       608.7      626.6       626.6       626.6      626.6
1-no-e  Tex                                                                               -           -        55.8      155.4       198.7      188.9       229.1       220.7       219.2      222.7       229.1      235.9       243.5      250.6       250.6       250.6      250.6
Profits After T.x                                (169.8)    (90.0)         (92.5)       30.8      143.1       262.1      233.2       298.1      283.3       343.6       331.0       328.8      334.0       343.6      353.8       365.2       376.0      376.0       376.0      376.0
Dividends                                             -          -            -            -          -           -      200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0        200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0      300.0       350.0      350.0       350.0       350.0
Sorpl-e                                          (169.8)   (90.0)          (92.5)       30.8      143.1       262.1        33.2       98.1       83.3       143.6       131.0       128.8      134.0       143.6       153.8       6S.2        26.0        26.0      26.0         26.0
Cumul.tive Sorplos                                    -    (259.8)       (352.3)      (321.5)   (178.4)        83.7      116.9       215.0      298.3       441.9       572.9       701.7      835.7       979.3   1,133.1    1,198.3   1,224.3    1,250.3    1,776.3    1,302.3
May 28, 1974



LIVESTOCKG DIVELOFOEN PROJECT
GOANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY, LTD. - SUMEMARY BALANCE SHEETS
- - - -----  --------------------------------------                   -       -      -        -      -       P-oject Y.-------------------------------------------------
Opening           1           2            3            4           0           6          7           H           9           10          11         12          13          14          15          16          17         18          IS           20
ASSETS                                   Sheet
Pi.ed Assets - At Cost                 N/A            952.0   1,141.0       1,266.5      1,427.6    1,463.8   1,525.1    1,525.1    1,525.1   1,525.1    1,525.1    1,525.1    1,525.1    1,555.1    1.525,1    1,525.1    1,525.1    1,525.1   1,525.1    1,525.1    1,525.1
D:peaniation                           N/A             68.7      104.9        243.8        330.1       345.9       361.7       361.7      361.7       361.7       361.7       361.7       361.7     _361,7    -361.7         361.7       361.7       361.7       361.7       361.7       361.7
Net Pi.ed Asset.                       144.0          883.3       986.1     1,022.7      2,097.5   1,107.9   0,163.4   1,163.4   1,163.4   1,163.4    1,163.4    1 .163.4    1 .163.4   1,163.4   1,163.4    1,163.4   1,063.4    1,163.4    1,163.4    1,163.4    I,163.4-
Heed                                  456.0           824.0      839.0      1,H36.0      1,240.0    1,429.0    1,629.0    1,796.0    1.4,74,0    1,959.0    2,060.0    2,072.0    2.072,0    2,072.0    2,072.0    2,072.0    2,072.0    2,H72.0    2,072.0    2,072.0    2,072.0
Lose. to Pri-ate FPares                  -              -        132.1        398.9        303,3       327.5       027.5       527.5      674.8       342.9      '211.0         79.1        -           -         -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Cash                                  600.0           233.0      162.0          62.1         -          -                        12       169         180,6       234,5       354.2       375,2      319.2       264.7       206.7       142.3       233.0       266.1       292.1       91.18
3,558.1   3,669,1   3.645.9   3.66890    3.468.?    3,610.6   3,55.6   3,500.1    3,442.1    3,377.7    3.468.4    3,401.5    3,527.4    3,55a.5
Tots1 Asse.ts               1.200,0        1,740.3    2,122.2       2,522.7      2.842,8    3,074.4    3,319.9
EQUITY ANN LIABILITIES
St.t.d Capit.l                      1,000.0        1.000,0   0.000,0        1.000 0    B 000 0   1,000.0   I 000.0   1 000 0   H 000.0   0,000 0   0.000 0   1.000 0   1,000 0   1 000 0   1 000 0   1.000 0   I 000,0    1 000.0    N 000.0    I 000 B   1 000 H
Hoepl-s                                 -            (169 83    (259 H)      (332.3)      (32153    (178 43         83 7      006 9        2 190      298 3       441 9       572 H       701 7      835 7       979.3    1 133.1    1,198 3   1.224,3    1,258.3    1.276 3   1,302.3
Total Eiqoty                I 000 0           850 2      744 2        647 7        678 5       921 6   1 083 7   1 116 9   1 215 0   0 296 3   1 441 9   1 572 9   1 701 7   1 835 7   1 979 3   1 133 1   2 198 3   2,224.3    2.250 3   2 276 3   2 302.3
D.b-nt-.s te Gons... t 87,             200 0          200 0       200 0       200 0         200 0      200 0       200 0       200 H       200 0      200 0       200 0       200 0       700 0       200 0      200 0       200 H       200 0       200 0       200 H       200 0       200.0
Dsb-otn-e  to C-meenis   050k.           -              -         t00 0       200 0         200 0      200 0       200 0       200 0       200 0      200 0       200.0       200 0       200 0       200 0      200 0       200 0       200 H       200.0       200.        200 0       200.0
97,. (25 yeses)
IDA Los  91 (16 yeses)              - -               710 0   10802 0    1 479 0         17 797 3   1 757 3   1 757 3   1 630 0   0 500 0   0 360 0   1 209 0 1,046.0                    069 0       677.0       469 0       244 0         -           -           -           -           -
S.b-,oIs'                  1 200 0        1 740 3   2 122 2    2 522 7          28033 8   2 970 9   3 241 0   3 146 9   3 115 H   3 058 3   3 050 9 3 010 9    2 970 7   2 912 7   2 848 3   2 777 1   2 598 3   2 624 3   2 600 3   2.676 3   2.702,3
CLURRENT LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                     441.9       451.8       465.0      479.5       494.1       501.2       501.2       501.2
I...eeT..-                                                   -                                -           -         5568       211 2       354 1      387 6       4180        4496        439 9
DSiHid..d Payable-                                                  -            -            -           -            -       200 0       200 0      200 0       200 0       200 0       200 0       200 0      200 0       200 0       200 0       300 0       390.0       390 0       350 
Overdeaft                                -              -           -            -            7 0        95 5       23 -        -2_          -          -           -          -                       -           -           -            -----
Total Eqoity & Liabilities          1.200,0        1,740.3   2 122.2        2,522.7      2,842 8   3,074.4   3,319.9   3.558 1   3,669 1   3,645 9   3 6668H                3.668 7   3.610 6   35054 6   3 500.1   3 442.1   3 377 7   3 468 4    3.501 5   3,527.5    3 053 5
Retoen on Capital Employed -  -                                                                                          1           11          13        12          14          14          13          14         14          14          10          15          15          05          15
/P-fRita b.fore chacOing inte-ts on loa  nepite1  bot  fter tee, as  s peen-tege of the  -n  of eqnity sed los  napitel
May' 20, 1974



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GhANA LEVESTOCE COMPANY, LTD. - CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(c 'WOOD)
_________________________________________________----_____--____--------ec-------------Proett Yr--------------------------------------------- .........
5          2           3           4          5           6          7          8              9          10       11        12         13         14 4        1          16         17          18         19         20
INFLOW
Sales                                               425.7       507.6       536.9       632.7      701.6       832.3      918.7   1 070.9   1,033.0   1,117.1   1,176 4   1,181.3    1,181.3   1,181.3   1,181.3   1,181.3   1,181.3   1,181.3   1,181.3    1,181.3
Private Fencers' Lan Se.rvice:- l.terest                          5 5.4      21.4        36.2        41.3       42.2       42.2       42.2       38.0        27.4       16.9        6.3                        -           -          -                           -           -
- principal          -           -           -           -          -          -          -         52.7      131.9       131.9      131.9       79.1
Con -ercial Banks: - equity contribution            600.0          -           -
-     debentures                  -        100.0       100.0
IDA Loan                                            710.1      371.9        393.0       282.3         -          -          -          -
TOTAL INFLOW                  1,735.8      934.9    1,051.3         951.2      742,9      874.5       960.9   1,165.8   1,202.9   1,276.4   1,325.2   1,266.7    1,181.3   1,181.3   1,181 3   1.181.3   1.181.3   1,181.3    1,181.3   1,181.3
OUTFLOW
Loans to Private Farmers                              -       135.1        263.8       106.4        22.2                   -          -
Investments                                        808.0      189.0        125.5       161.1       36.2       61.3         -          -
Cattle: - breeding stuck                           247.1      167.3        137.3        74.8       42.7        44.0       40.6       12.8       11.9       11.9        11.9       11.9       11.9       11 9        11.9       11.9       11.9       11.9        11.9       11.9
- steers                                   21.6        21.6        21.6        21.6       21.6        21.6       20.0        7.2        7.2        7.2         -          -         -          -           -          -           -         -           -           -
Ranbh Operating Costa                              274.2       339.7       358.2       390.3      424.1       445.9      459.1      459.1      459.1      459.1       459.1      459.1      459.1      459.1      459.1       459.1      459.1       459.1      459.1      459.1
Head Office Eipensas                               107.5      107.5        107.5       107.5      107.5        51.7       51.7       51.7       51.7       51.7        51.7       51.7       51.7       51.7        51.7       51.7       51.7        51.7       51.7       51.7
Sob-tote1         1.458.4      960.2    1.013.9         861.7      654.3      624.5      571.4       530.8      529.9      529.9      522.7      522.7       522.7      522.7      522.7       522.7      522.7      522.7      522.7       522.7
ILA Lean: - interest                               28.4        71.7       102.3       129.3      140.6      140.6       134.9      131.5      121.9      110.9        98.9       84.9       69.9       53.9        36.9       17.9        -           -
- principal                               -          -            -           -          -          -        127.3       130.0      140.0      151.0      163.0      177.0       192.0      208.0      225.0       244.0
Debeminre Int-rest: - in Gsvsenment                  16.0       160.0       16.0        16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0
- in On,eereisl Bokms          -           8.0       16.0        16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0
Overdraft Interest                                    -          -           -           0.3         4.5        5.0        1.0                   -           -          -          -                -          -           -          -                -          -           -
Intone Tee                                                                               -          -                      -         55.8      155.4      198.7       188.9      229.1      220.7      219.2       222.7      229.1      235.9      243.5       250.6      250.6
Divideed Payments                                     -          -           -           -           -          -          -        200.0      200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0      200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0      300.0       350.0  .3  50.0       350.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                1,502.8   1,055.9    1,148 2    1,023.3          831.4      802.1       866.6   1,080.1   1,179.2   1,222.5   1,205.5   1,245.7    1,237.3   1,235 8   1,239.3   1,245.7   1,090.6   1,148.2   1,155 3   1,155.3
ANNUAL BALANCE                                         233,0    (71.0)        (9n 9)       (72 1)    (88.5)       72.4       94.3        85.7       23.7       53.9      119.7       21 0       (56.0)     (54 5)    (58 0)    (64.4)         90 7       33 1        2680       26.0
CUMUIATIVE BALANCE                                       -        162.0        65.1         (7.0)     (95.5)     (23 1)      71.2      156.9       180.6      234.5      354.2      375 2      319 2       264 7      206.7      142 3       233.0      266.1      292.1       318.1
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY LTD.
Notes on the Calculation of the Projections
Herd Projections (Tables 1-3)
1.        The herd projections reflect different policies regarding the
length of time for which male cattle are retained before sale. Different
possibilities were tried to see which gave the best rate of return, given
the assumed selling prices. In fact, changes in policy would have little
effect on profits and therefore no attempt has been made to have a uniform
policy on all ranches.
2.        In practice, as the project develops, breeding cattle should command
an increasing premium over slaughter stock and this will make it profitable
to sell males as yearlings, thus allowing more breeding females to be carried.
Investment Costs and Phasing (Tables 4-6)
3.        Notes on items specific to the individual ranches are shown on the
tables themselves. A point common to all the tables is that the assets taken
over have been valued at half the estimated replacement cost.
Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock Sales and Purchases (Tables 7-9)
4.        Unit prices are based on 0 0.42/lb liveweight (except for calves
which have been priced at t 0.48/lb) and a gradual increase in average weights.
The determination of the liveweight price per lb is discussed in Annex 2.
Ranch Operating Costs (Tables 10-12)
5.        Maintenance and replacement - this has been calculated as follows,
with figures rounded to hundreds:
(a) buildings - 1% of original construction cost in each of the
two years following construction and 2-1/2% of cost in each
subsequent year;
(b) fencing and stockhandling facilities - 10% of original cost
beginning with year following construction;



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 2
(c) tracks - 6-2/3% of cost beginning with year following con-
struction;
(d) watering facilities - 2-1/2% beginning with year following
construction;
(e) pasture maintenance (for Branam and Pong Tamale Ranches) -
assumes replacement of improved pastures after three years.
The work would be carried by ranch owned equipment
whose costs are separately accounted for. The amounts
shown against this heading are based on the following costs
per acre.
5 cwt superphosphate  -  C 14
10 lb seed            -  20
1 gal pesticide       -  C  6
C 40
(f) vehicles and equipment - based on 10% of cost in the year of
acquisition and 20% beginning with the year after acquisition.
(Does not include spare parts and maintenance and repairs of
vehicles and equipment, which are included in running costs.)
6.        The maintenance and replacement figures include depreciation.  For
simplicity, it has been assumed that expenditure on replacements is equal to
depreciation each year.
7.        Running of vehicles and othet equipment.  This has been calculated
as follows:
(a) Landrovers - figures based on 10,000 miles a year at C 0.15
per mile for fuel, oil, grease, repairs and maintenance;
(b) trucks - Branam Ranch figures based on 10,000 miles per year
and Tadzewu Ranch and Pong Tamale Ranch figures based on
7,500 miles, at C 0.20 per mile for fuel, oil, grease, repairs
and maintenance;
(c) tractors - based on 1,500 working hours per year at C 2 per
hour for fuel, oil, grease, repairs and maintenance.
8.        Maize - Branam Ranch:
(a) labor - 3 mandays per acre at C 1.20 per day;
(b) seed - 20 lb per acre at C 0.10 per lb;



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) fertilizer - 250 lbs N17 x P17 x K17/acre at 0 0.048/lb
and 150 lbs ammonium nitrate/acre at 0 0.043/lb;
(d) pesticides - based on 25 lb Aldrin dust/acre at
0 0.20/lb and on 10 lb DDT 5% granules at 0 0.23/lb;
(e) herbicide - based on 2 lb Atrazine/acre at 0 4.20/lb.
9.        Investments written off are items included in the investment costs
(Tables 4-6) whose nature makes it appropriate to write them off immediately
rather than to carry them forward as assets in the balance sheet.
10.       Adjustment of Base Price to January 1974 Levels.  The figures in
Tables 1-12 in this Annex are based on prices ruling of the time of appraisal
in March/April 1973. The costs have been adjusted to 1974 levels for the
purposes of the summary Tables 14-18 of this Annex, Annex 5, Tables 3 and 4,
and Annexes 6-9, by applying the percentage increases of Table 13.
Ranch Operating Statements (Table 14)
11.       The figures on this table are obtained as follows:
(a) sales of cattle - from Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock
Sales and Purchases (Tables 7-9);
(b) sales of maize at Branam - calculated on the basis of initial
yields and prices, respectively, 12 bags/acre and 0 18/bag.
Yields are expected to rise gradually to 15 bags/acre,
and prices to fall to 0 15/bag. This simplifying assump-
tion is made so that the changes year by year will be such
as to leave the revenues constant at 0 459,000;
(c) increase in herd value - calculated from the herd values shown
on Revenue and Expenditure from Livestock Sales and Purchases
(Tables 7-9). The valuation at 75% of selling price has been
taken for this purpose (and for the herd values shown in the
balance sheet);
(d) cattle purchases - revenue and expenditure from livestock
sales and purchases (Tables 7-9); and
(e) ranch operating costs and investments written off - from
Ranch Operating Costs (Tables 10-12).
Head Office Investments and Operating Costs (Table 15)
12.       It is assumed that the expatriates will be replaced by Ghanaians
from year 6 onwards.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 4
Profit and Loss Statements (Table 16)
13.       The figures on this table are obtained as follows:
(a) ranch operating profit - from the Ranch Operating Statements
(Table 14);
(b) interest received - this is interest received from private
farmers calculated at 8% on the balance outstanding from
time to time. The corresponding payments are shown in the
Private Farmers - Cash Flow Statement, 50 Farmers (Annex 5,
Table 4);
(c) head office expenses - from Head Office Investments and
Expenses Costs (Table 15);
(d) interest paid-debentures - calculated at 8% on the t 200,000
debentures issued to Government in part consideration for the
assets taken over by the Company at the start of the project
and on the f 200,000 debentures taken up by the banks;
fe) interest paid-IDA loan - calculated at 8% on the balance of
the loan outstanding from time to time;
(f) interest paid-overdraft - calculated at 9% on the amount of
the overdraft outstanding from time to time;
(g) income tax - calculated at 40% of the profits before tax,
after offsetting any losses carried forward;
(h) dividends - it is assumed that profits after tax will be
fully distributed, provided that the Cumulative Surplus
remains positive, in accordance with Ghana law;
(1) the tax will be paid up to 12 months in arrears. Thus, after
the first year in which tax becomes payable, the balance sheet
figures represents two years' assessments.
14.       Dividends are assumed to be paid in the year following that out of
whose profits they are declared.
Summary Balance Sheets (Table 17)
15.       The figures for net fixed assets have been obtained as follows:



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 5
Opening
Balance Sheet    1       2       3      4       5      6
Project Cost and Fi-
nancing (Annex 6)        144.0      808.0  189.0  125.5  161.1   36.2   61.3
Less Investments Written
Off From Table 14             -      68.7   86.2   88.9   86.3   15.8   15.8
Net                        144.0     739.3  102.8   36.6   74.8   20.4   45.5
Net Cumulative             144.0     883.3  986.1 1022.7 1097.5 1117.9 1163.4
16.       The herd values have been obtained from Tables 7-9.  Loans to pri-
vate farmers are taken directly from Private Farmers - Cash Flow Statement, 50
Farmers (Annex 5, Table 4).
17.       The Cash and Overdraft figures are obtained from the Cash Flow State-
ment (Table 18).
18.       The Stated Capital is made up as follows:                  C'O00
(a) shares to Government, in part consideration for
the assets taken over                                  400
(b) shares in consideration for cash contributions
from banks                                             600
1,000
19.       The surplus figures are taken directly from the Profit and Loss
Statement (Table 16).
20.       The Debentures 8% (25 years) issued to Government represent the
balance of the value of the assets taken over from Government -  600,000
less C 400,000 issued as shares - C 200,000.
21.       The IDA loan figures are obtained from the Cash Flow Statement
(Table 18).
22.       The income tax liabilities are obtained from the Profit and Loss
Statements (Table 16) on the assumptions that:
(a) liability to income tax is assessed on the profits of the
preceding year in accordance with Ghana law;
(b) the tax will be paid up to 12 months in arrears.
Thus, after the first year in which tax becomes payable, the balance sheet
figure represents two years' assessments.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 6
23.       Dividends are assumed to be paid in the year following that out
of whose profits they are declared.
24.       Most of the Company's transactions will be for cash and the simplify-
ing assumption is made that any receivables and inventories (other than the
base stocks of spare parts included in investment costs and net fixed assets)
would be equal to accounts payable. These items have therefore been ignored
in the balance sheet.
Cash Flow Statement (Table 18)
25.       The figures on the statement are obtained as follows:
(a)  sales - from Ranch Operating Statements (Table 14);
(b)  private farmers' loan service - from Cash Flow Statement,
50 Farmers (Annex 5, Table 4);
(c)  IDA loan - by calculation, following the disbursement
arrangements set out in paras 4.08 and 4.09 of the report;
(d)  loans to private farmers - from Annex 5, Table 4;
(e)  cattle - summarized from Revenue and Expenditures from
Livestock Sales and Purchases (Tables 7-9);
(f)  ranch operating costs - from Table 14;
(g)  head office expenses - from Table 15;
(h)  IDA loan, principal and interest - by calculation;
(i)  debenture interest - 8%;
(j)  overdraft interest - by calculation, assuming 9% on the
average balance outstanding in each year;
(k)  income tax and dividend payments - from the Profit and
Loss Statements (Table 16), assuming that:
(i) income tax is paid in the second year following
that of the profits on which it is assessed; and
(ii)  dividends are paid in the year following that in
which the profits are earned from which they are
paid.



GHAOIA                                                                Table I
.LIVESTOCK DJCVEMIOTENOT LSROjECT
PRIVATE FARMERlS - HERO PROJECTIONS
.~~~~~~- P  r     o    j    e      0~~~~~~~~~~~roet  Year ---------------- 
PRE.OEV.                     ------ J----        --- 5-----6                    7         a         9               il2
HERU COMPOSITION
OMLIDINO  COWS        ~~~~~400  459        693         ; 736 736           I1       733       76   136       736                 136  23
RULLS                          40        29         32        31        37        36        37        31         31        j7        37        37
CALVES                        160       280i       252       386,      441       441       431       4940      441       4.4        I't I      4? 
9124 MONTH PiElFERS            80        18         61       122       187       2 14      214       209       21 3      214        2 14      114
9'24 MONTH STLERS              70        1o         81       122       181       214       21.4      209       213       214        214       21't
24'36 MONTH HLIFEIRS           80         78        75        85       119       161       208       208       203        2017      208 6     Z'
24'36 MUNTH STEERS              10        68        75        65       119       181       208       206       2U3        201       208       Zug
36'48 MONTH HEIFERS            10       124       122         69        T8       109       161       191       191        191       191        19i
36 -4 8 MONTH STEERS           50        68         66        13        82       1 15      1176      201       201       I291       201       2G1
48-60 MONTH STEERS             20        39         40        16        l8        20        28         43        49        49J       98        44'
60'72 MUNTH STEERS             20          0         0         0         0         0          U         0         0         0          0         0
FATTENING CULL FEM               0        39       *22        31        36        11         10        85        66        86        h6         oW
TUTAL NUMBERS                 840      13D58     124 9     1316       1598      1861      205 4     2 126     2 1321      1.2     2140      '.143
(TOTAL ANIMALS)              1000      1738      1502      17a2      2039       2302      24894     2566      2513      25(3       2561      .304
SUO8TUTAL A.U.                840      10 39     1238      1 360      1580      1825      201 9     208 3     20838     2ObR       2019 7    zloO
PURCHASED STELRS                 U       50         50        50        s0        50        50          0         0          0         1)        0
.-- - - - - -       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               .. . ... .
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS            890      1089      1 288     19 10      1 630     18175     2069      2082      2088      2089       2Q)92     2100G
MURTALITY
BREEDING Cl~WS                  3        1         ;1        1 9        22        2         22         2        22         2 2       22        2.-
BOLLS                            3         1         1         1         1          1         1         1         1          11
CALVES                          15         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         1
WEANENS                          0         5         5         a        1 2       1 3        1 3       1 3       1 3       1 3        1 3          3
9'24 MU4TH HEIFERS               3         2         2         3         4         6          6         6         6          6         6         6
9-24 MONTH STEERS                3         2         2         3         4         6          6         6         6          6         6         6
24'36 MUNTH HLIFERS              3         2         2         2         3         4          5         6         6          6         4         6
24-36 MJNTH SIEERS               3         2         2         2         3         4          5         6         6          6         0         6
36-48 M4NTH HEIFERS             3         0          9         4         2         2          3         5         6         6          C6
36 -48  mOiNTH STEERS           3          2         2         2         2         2          3         5         6         6          11
48-60 MONTH HEIFERS              3         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0                   1
48-60 MJNTH SlEERS               3         I         1         1         0          1         1         I         I          i                   1
60 - 72 MUNTH STEERS             3         1         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          P 
FATTENING CULL FEM           .             0         1         0         0          1         1         1         1          1 
SOB-TUTAL                      33        25         3 1       31        40        47        55         61        0,3       63         63        9 3
PURCHASLO STEE.RS               0          0         2       .2          2          2         2         2         0          0         0
TOTAL                          33        25         33        38        41        99        56         62        63        63        63         4
PURCHASES                                                                  ---
0       5C         50         0         0          0         0         0         6                    a  
IMATRAURtE R& R                    0       100       100         25         0         0         0          a         0         0          0
BR"ADING AGE {ETPFI;S                                 1.1         7                   14        5          7         5         3          h
SUO-TUTAL                       0       150       161         32         3         9          5         7         8                   6  
STELRS                          0        s0        50         50        50        50        50         (1         0         c          0  
-.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
TOTAL                           0       200       211         82        53        54        55          7         8         8          8
SALES
BULLS                           10        10         7         2         2          9         3         5          7         7         7         7
9-24 MONTH STEERS               10         0         0         0         0          0         0         0)        0          0         0         0,
2 4-3 6 MONTH HEIFERAS          10         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0)
24 -36 MUNTH STEERS             1 0        1)        0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
36-48 MONTH HEIFERS
CULL                           0         4          4         4         4         6          9        1 0       1 0       1 0        10         
36-48 MUNTH HEIFERS            10          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
36-48 MONTH STEERS             l0          0         0)        0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
46-oo MONTH HLIFERS              0         0         0         0        10u         0         0        52        7 8        la        73        77
98-60 MONTH STEERS              10        10        26        48        53         60        84       128       147       147        143       I;
60-72 NUNTH STEERS             20         39        38        36        15         17        19        27        91         41        47        '.o
FATTENING CULL FEN             90          0        38        22        31         35        10        69        84        84         94        61
SO8TOTA~~~~~~~~L      130----- &2         113-- ;~   11         1         2         8         9          63                 365       3
PURCHASEO STEERS                 0         0        49      .99         49        49         49        49         0          (1        0 
................................................
TOTAL                         1 30        02       16 2      162       1 63      1170      239        340       38 7      373        365       3,
PRODUCTION DATA
WLANING NATE 0              40.00    45,00    55.00    60.O0    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.10O    tf0                  (~L).1.C
AUULT I4ON1ALITY %           3.00      3.00      3.001    3.00        3.Uu0    3.00,    3.00         3.00      3.00      J.oL      3.00       3,0O
EXTRACTION ROTC    1  13. 10           5.-98     9. 13      6. 33     6 .66   6   .65     9 .20    1 1. 48    13.85    1 4.1 3    1 3. 92    t 3 * 9
TOT. OUTPUT RATE 1          15.48      5.98      9.13      8.33       7.26      6.65      9.20    13.98    11.58    11.86    01742    17.61
COWS/TUTAL HERD 1           91.00    317.01    9 2.81    4 1 .75    36 .08    3 1 .18    29.50    28. 61    28.59    2 0.-59    28,4 19    29 .47
8011/COW  HATIU %           10.00      5.00      5.00       5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00       5.00      5.00      5.00       3.oc
COW CULLI?4G RATE %         10.00    10.00       5 .00      5 .00     5.00    10(.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    1 2.00    1 2.00    07. 00
BULL COLLING RATE 0    10.00    25.00    25.00              5.oo      5.00    10.00    10.00    15.00    20.00    2U.00    20.00    13-0
HEIFER  CULLING RATE  1  0.00          5.00      5.00       5.00      5.00      5.00      5.00       5.00      5.00      5.90      9.00       5.1,0
CARRYliNG CAP. A.U.          1000      1200      1400       1600      1800      2100o     2100       210 0     2100      2100      2 10 0      .I UO



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJBC'T
PRIVATE iARME1P- REVENUE AND EXPENDITUR1E FROM LIVESTOCK SALES AND PURCHASES
(Cedis)
Unit Price                         ,P,rOjct  Year
Year:  1        20  PRE.DEV.           1         2         3         4         5        6         7         8         S        1)    11-2U
iEVENUE
SALE uF CULL
COWS                   350.00  200,00    6000.           0.    5924.    3508.    5068.    5974.   1229b8  12345.    5:4.   Ib LO23    16445*   16866.
BULLS                  195.00  2400UO    1950.    1940.    1411.           320.      375.     767.      766.    1199.   1410    107.    1712.    1712.
HEIFERS 36 4           150.00.  170.00         O      601*      583.      5844      651.      950.    14526    1712.    171], *     I b71 .        j7s     1712.
__._,..............._,,............ ,,...... ,,......._.,_................................................. ................. .,
SUtfTuTAI'                                   7950.   2541.   7918.    4411.   6099.   7691.  14517.  15256.    b9 9t*  19i37                   19963    2U291.
.. .,___,... ._......... __._._........  .........._   ,_............
SALE OF SURPLUS
HEItLIS 24-36          150.00   175.00    150S0           0.       0.        0.        0.        o.        0.        0.         .                  U .      0.
HEIF.LHS 36-48         180.00   195.00    1800*           O        O.        0.        O.        O        us        0         0        U         Of       0.
HEIFLHS 48-60          190*00   205.00          0.        0.      0U         0.    19080        O         O.   10435s   1558b.  'sqi9   15053    15827.
STELP(S  9-24           95.00   115.00       950.         0        0U.       0.        0.        0.        0.        U I,                U         U         0. 
STELNS 24'36           150.00   170.00    1500.           O.       U.        0.        0.          s       0.        0.        Do 0i               O         0.
STEEIS 36'48           185.00   205,00    1850.          0.        0.       O         0.        0.        O.        0         c,        u         U.        U.
STEENS 48-6U           200.00   220*U.    200u.    1989.    5401. 1a 062.   11155.   128486  18015.   28172.   32133.   32233   3',1'b5   32112-
STELtS 60+             210,00   24U.00    4200.    8342.    8092.    8433.    3408.    3950.    4444.    6502.    9937.   i 369    21369                 11095.
PURCHASED STEERS        100.00   12U0U0          0.       O    5093.    5335*    5335.    557B.   5578.    520o.                Do       U         0,        0.
. .. ....  -.- -- . .. . . . . .,. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. ._ ....... _ ._. ................,
SUbTUTAL 2                                  13800.  10331.  18585.  23c30   21807.  22375.  28037   50 a30.  57750.   5                    25  S177      59035.
* *~~~~~~~~~~~..,-..................... -...... -    ,... ,____................ ..................
TOTAL REVENUE                               21750.  12872.  26504.  28242.  27906.  30066.  42553.  6618o.   76646.  7844 2    77 71    793Z6i
EXPENDITURE
PUHCHASE oE
IMMATURE HEIFERS    130.00   130.00             0.    6500.   6500.          0          0        0    0         0     .        0 Do                0         0.
8bEEUABLE HEIFERS   220.00  220.0O              O   22000.   22000.    5557            0         0        0 f  Os                       0.        0 
BULLS  *               150.00   3000U0         0o        O    3292.    2147         866    11350   1592,    197U.   ?*no  z-4-7t               zt71    2471.
SILELS                 120*00   120.00          O    6000U    6000,    6000    6000#   6000o   6000                 U.        0.        U         0         0.
........................................
TOTAL LXPENDITURE                                0.  3450U0  37792,  13703.    6866.    7135.    7592.    1970,    2'77l *  -t1i                 2471      2471I
. ._                                                                                      ....................                              ... .. .. .... .. ,, __ .  . . . .. . ....  .. .. . .. ._ .
INVENTURY VALUE                            140200. 183523.  224659.  245133.  278833.  325138.  362037.  383262.  37878e.  3%571   3S8991. 3b9032.
Th 1. l''



ANNEX S
Table 3
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIVATE CATTLE HERD (250 HEADY - INVESTMENTS. OPERATING COSTS AtlD REVENUES  L/
(Cedis)
---------------------------------Year of Participation in Project---------------------------------------------
1          2           3           4         5          6          7         8          9          10           11-20
Investsent Costs
Fencing                                   720         -           -           -         -          -          -         -          -          -
Cattle Crosh snd Paddock                  960         -           -
Watering Facilities                     3,400         -           -
Small Equipment and Tools 2i              220         -           -           -         -          -          -         -          -          -
Total Investmet t Costs              4.300         -                                                                            Z
Operating Costs
Fixed Operating Costs
Fencing 3/                           -            87          87         87         87         87        87         87         87         87            87
Cattle Crush and Paddock 4/          -           116        116         116        116        116       116        116        116        116           116
Watering Facilities 5/               -            72          72         72         72         72        72         72         72         72            72
Smail Rquiprent andTools 61          -            25          25         25         25         25        25         25         25         25            25
Subtotal                                         300        300         500        200       300        300        300        300       300           300
Variable Operating Costs
Drugs and Salt                       522         618        677         782        900        994     1,D06      1,002      1,003     1,008         1,008
Miscellaneous 7/                     120         142         155        179        207        228       229        230        230        231           231
Subtotal                             642         760        832         961      1J107     1.222      1.235      1.232      1.233     1.239         1.239
Total Operating Costs                 642       1,060      1.132       1.261      1,407     1.522      1.535      1,532      1.533     1.539         1,539
Purchase of Cattle                      4,140       4,535       1,644        824        856        911        236       297        297        297           297
Sales                                   1.545       3,180       3.389      3L349      3.608      5.106      7.942     9.198    9$473        9,329         9.519
Net Revenue                        (3,237)    (2,415)         613      1,264      1,345      2,673     6,171      7,369      7,643      7,493        7,683
Herd Value                             22,023      26,959     29,416      33,460    39,017    43,444    45,991    45,455    46,305    46,571            46,684
NOTES:
1/ Adjusted    according to Annea 4, Table 13.
2/ Includes 1 kbapsack spry-rs.
3/ 10% of cost.
4/  10% of cost.
5/ 2.5% of cost.
6i  10% of cost.
7/  Includes compensation of herdsoen.
Hay 28, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 4
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIFTY PRIVATE FARMERS - CASH FLOW -
(Cedis)
-~~~~~~~--------------ProJect Year--_________
2          3          4          5          6         7          8          9         10           11           12           13           14           15-20
INFLOW
Sales                     30,900      110,000   163,200   168,600   172,600   210,400   312,000   422,200   465,400           470,800      470,300      476,000      476,000      476,000
Loans from
Coopany 2/              135,100     263,800   106,400    22,200         -          -         -          -          -            -            -           -            -
Farmers' Cash Contribu-
tion                     24,000       36,000       -          _         -          _          -          -         -            -            -            -            -            -
Total Inflow             190,000      409,800   269,600   190,800   172,600   210.400         312,000   422,200   465,400     470,800      470,300      476.000      476,000      476,000
OUTFLOW
Fixed Investment          86,000      129,000       -          -          -         -          -          -          -           -            -            -            -
Breeding  Cattle          68,400      178,900   133,000    29,900        5,900     7,800    10,600    13,200    15,000         15,000       15,000       15,000       15,000       15,000
Steers for Fattening      14,400       36,000    36,000    36,000    36,000    36,000    21,600           -          -           -            -            -            -            -
Operating Costs            12.800      34,000    54.400    59.100    66,000    72.700    76.400    76.800    76,500            76.700       77,000       77.000       77,000       77.000
Subtotal                 181,600      377,900   223,400   125,000   107,900   116,500   108,600    90,000    91,500            91,700       92,000       92,000       92,000       92,000
Loan: interest 3/           5,400      21,400    36,200    41,300    42,200    42,200    42,200    38,000    27,400            16,900        6,300         -            -            -
principal             -            -          -          -         -          -       52700   1            131.900      131.900 13190 79  100-                    -
Total Outflow            187.000      399.300   259.600   166,300   150.100   158.700   203.500   259,900   250,800           240.500      177,400       92,000       92.000       92.000
ANNUAL CASH BALANCE         3,000       10,500    10.000    24.500    22.500    51,700   108500   162,300   214600            230300       292.900      384.000      384,000      384.000
NOTES:
1/ Cash flow based on the assumption that 20 private farmers will participate in year 2 onward and that 30 additional private farmers will participate beginning in year 3 onward. All figures
adjusted    according to Annex 4 Table 13.
2/ Loans to private farmers are based on 80% of the cost of breeding cattle, fixed investment, and incremental steer purchases.
3/ Terms of the loans are 8% interest, and the principal payable in 10 years with 6 years grace.
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 6
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost and Financing
(c 000's5)
Assets                                                                                       ------------------------Financed by---------------------
Taken       -------------------Project Year ----------------------                                                       Private      IDA          Retained
Over        1           2           3          4           5          6           Total      Government       Banks      Farmers       Credit      Income
Ghana Livestock Co-. Ltd.
Buildings                               131.6      296.4        3.6          -          3.6        3.6       -            43868
Fencing and handling facilities          10.8       53.B       29.3        12.5        12.5       16.8       16.8         152.5
Firebreaka  and tracks                   -          21.4       15.4          8.2        5.5        -         -             50.5
Watering facilities                       1.6       58.8       24.0         24.0       56.4        -         26.4         191.2
Improved pastures                        -          10.0       55.0        65.0        65.0        -         -            195.0
Selective land clearing                  -          15.8       15.8         15.8       15.8       15.8       15.8          94.8
Vehicles and equipment                   -         330.3       45.9          -          2.3        -          2.3         380.8
Water facilities study                   -          21.5         -           -          -          -         -              21.5
Subtotal                                144.0      8080      189.0        125.5      161.1       36.2       61.3       1,525.1          144.0         611.0       -           770.1
Herd - initital                         456.0       -           -            -          -          -         -            456.0          456.0                     -                  -
- breeding stock                   -         247.1      167.3        137.3       74.8       42.7       44.0          713.2         -             -           -           376.0        337.2
- value added                      -         (79.1)      47.7         59.7      129.2      146.3      156.0         459.8          -             -           -            308.0       151.8
Loans to private farmers                 -          -         135.1        263.8      106.4       22.2       -            527.5          -             212.1       -           303.2         12.2
Total Company                           600.0      976.0      539.1       586.3      471.5       247.4      261.3       3,681,6          600.0        823.1        -         1,757.3        501.2 1/
Private Farmers
Fencing and handling facilities          -          -          33.6         50.4        -          -         -              84.0
Watering facilities                      -          -          48.0         72.0        -          -         -             120.0
Equirment                                -          -           4.5          6.8        -          -         -              11.3
Cattle - breeding                        -          -          68.4        178.9      133.0       27.7       -            408.0
- incremental fattening          -          -          14.4         21.6       _           -         -              36.0
Total Private Farmers                    -          -         168.9        329.7      133.0       27.7       -            659.3
Less - Loans from Company above          _          -         135.1        263.8      106.4       22.2       -             527,5
Net Total Private Farmers                -          -          33.8         65.9       26.6        5.5       -             131.8         -             -           131.8
Preparation of Future Project            -          -            -          84.0        -                     -             84.0         -             -            -            84.0
Overseas Training                        -          -            -          21.0        -          -                        21.0         -             -            -            21.0 
Project Cost Before Contingencies   600.0          976.0      572.9        757.2      498.1      252.9      261.3       3,918.4          600.0         823.1       131.8      1,862.3       501.2
Contingencies - Physical                 -          80.8        18.9        12.6       16.1        3.6        6.1          138.1         -             258.5         50.0       445.3       550.0 2/
- Price                  -         198.4       140.4       262.2      230.7      144.0      192.0       1,165.7 )           __       ____
Total Project Cost                      600.0   1,255.2       732.2    1.032.0        744.9      400.5      457.4        5,222.2         600.0       1.081.6        181.8    2.307.6      1,051,2
NOTES:
1/  Retained income comprises:  investments  written off   361.7
balance on surplus a/c         83.7
provision for income tax    55.8
2/  Price contingencies of 5% in PI  1 and 10% thereafter, compounded, have been calculated on cattle purchases.  Similar increases in the prices of cattle sold would roughly
cover the price contingencies in IY 4-6.
May 2d, 1574






ANNEX 7
GHANA
LIV3STOCK DEVEIWPMENiT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
(us$ 000)
Estimated                   Cumulative
End of                 Amt. Disbursed              Disbursement
Year         Quarter                 during Quarter              at end of Quarter
1   1                     100                            100
2                         150                            250
3                         150                            400
4                         150                            550
2              1                          100                           650
2                         100                            750
3                         100                            850
11                        100                            950
3              1                          100                         1,050
2                         100                          1,150
3                         150                          1,300
4                         100
4              1                          10(                          1,500
2                         10                           1,600
3                         100                          i,700
10()                        1,80'
51  100                     1,9(c
2                         100                          2,000
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 8
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPENT PROJECT
GOVERN0iENT CASH FLOW
1           2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10          11          12         13          14          15          16          17          IS          19          20           21-50
INFLOW
IDA Cpedit          710.1       371.9       393.0      282.3                            -               -           -          -          -           -           -           -           -           -           -                             -            -
From the Coupl, 
- IDA Loan Service
- intere-t       28.4        71.7       102.3      129.3      140.6      140.6     134.9      131.5      121.9      110.9        98.9        84.9       69.9        53.9        36.9        17.9
- prinripal    -            -           -          -          -          -         127.3      130.0      140.0      151.0       163.0       177.0      192.0       208.0       225.0       244.0
- Debenture
Interest           16.0        16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0      16.0       16.0        16.0        16.0       16.0        16.0        16.0        16.0         16.0       16.0         16.0       216.0        -
- Dividends         -           -           -          -          -          -          -           80.0       80.0       80.0        80.0       80.0       80.0         80.0        80.0        80.0      120.0       150.0        150.0    1,200.0         -
- Isncoe Tax        -           -           -          -          -          -          -           55.8      155.4      198.7       188.9       229.1     220.7        219.2      222.7        229.1       235.9       243.5       250.6       751.8        -
Other Taxes and
Duties             14S.8       102.8       128.0      104.2       87.3       91.6       88.1       86.3       84.3       87.0        86.6        86.7       86.7        86.7        86.7        86.7        86.7        86,7        86.7        86.7        -
Total Inflow        900.3       562.4       639.3      531.8      243.9      248.2      366.3      499.6      597.6      643.6       633.4       673.7      665.3       663.8       667.3       673.7       458.6       496.2       503.3    2.254.5
OUTFLOW
IDA Credit On-
lent               710.1       371.9       288.0      282.3                 -          -          -          -          -           -          -           -           -           -           -           -           -                 -            -
Future Proect
Pre-partion        -           -            84.0      -
Overseas Traising  -             -            21.0
Fertilizer Subaidy  51.0          58.0       61.5       65.0       58.0       61.5       61.5       61.5       61.5       61.5        61.5        61.5       61.5        61.5        61.5        61.5        61.5        61.5        61.5         61,5        -
IDA Credit Service
- Service Charge    2.7          6.7         9.6       12.1       13.2       13.2       13.2       13.2       13.2       13.2        13.1        12.9      12.8        12.8        12.6         12.5        12.4        12.2        12.1        12.0        177.9
- Repayment        -                                                                                                                 17.6        17.6       17.6        17.6        17.6        17.6        17.6        17.6        17.6        17.6      1,581.3
Total Outflow       763.8       436.6       464.1      359.4        71.2      74.7       74.7       74.7       74.7       74.7        92.2        92.0       91.9        91.9        91.7        91.6        91.5        91.3        91.2         91.1      1,759.2
NET INFLOW           136.5      125.8       175.2      172.4      172.7      173.5      291.6      424.9      522,9      568.9       541.2       581.7      573.4       571.9       575.6       582.1       367.1       404.9       412.1    2.163.4    (1.759.2)
May 28, 1974



GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELDPMI.KT ]ROJECT
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(o  'CO)
Company---------- Private Farmers---                                             -----Shareholders_
Costs        Benefits         Net         Costs        Bene fits       Net         Government         Banks
lroject Year
1            2,058.4          425.7        (1,632.7)                                  -             (463.5)         (600.0)
2               960.2         513.0          (447.2)    523.4          166.0        (357.4)          125.8               -
3            1,013.)          558.3          (455.6)    903.9          373.8        (530.1)          175.2               -
4              861.7          668.9          (192.8)    259.6          269.6          10.0           172.4               -
5              654.3          742.9            88.6      166.3         190.8          24.5           172.7                -
6              624.5          874.5           250.0      150.1         172.6          22.5           173.5               -
7              571.4          960.9           389.5      158.7          210.4         51.7           291.6               _
8              530.8        1,165.8           635.0      203.5          312.0        108.5           424.9           120.0
9              529.9        1,2(2.9           673.0      259.9         422.2         162.3           522.9           120.0
10              529.9       l1,276.4           746.5      250.8          465.4        214.6           568.9           120.0
11              522.7        1.325.2           802.5      240.5          470.8        230.3           541.2           120.0
12              522.7        1,266.7           7 44.0     177.4          470.3        292.9           587.7           120.0
13              522.'7       1,181.3           658.6       92.0         476.0         384.0           573.4           120.0
m4              522.7        1,181.3           t58.t,      92.0          476.0        384.0           571.9           120.0
15              522.?        1,181.3           658.6       92.0         476.0         384.0           575.6           120.0
'6              522.7        1,181.3           658.6       92.0         476.0         384.0           582.1           120.0
17              522.7        1,181.3           658.6      92.0          476.0         384.0           367.1           180.0
18              522.7        1,181.3           658.6      92.0          476.0         384.0           404.9           210.0
19)             522.7        1,181.3           658.6       92.0         476.0         384.0           412.1           210.0
20              522.7        4,233.3         3,710.6       9;?.0       2,81l.0      2,719.0         2,163.4         1,800.0
21-,)                _              _                                                      -         (1,759.2)
Rates ot' Retu=m                                    114%                                    17%             45%             12%
Sensitiv-it. Analvsis
- 10,% increase i   revenues.                       17%
- 10% decrease in revenues.                          11%
- l')v<5 rncrease inl costs                         11%
;- 
- gO0%increase in revenues                          19%                                                                       LM
- 20% decrease in revenues                            8%                                                                     C x
- 20% increase in costs                               9%                                                                         o
May 28, 1974



CP4I'IA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economnic Rote of Return Calculation
(f 'OOOs)
Project
Cons,olidated                        Adiusted
Pro lect    Net                Physica'.          Project        Taxes           Fertilizer      CEDI                Econonmic
Ye r         CLsh Flow         Cntencies          Cash Flow      and Duties      Subsidy         Overvaluation       Cash Flow
1          (1,632.7)            (6o.8)          (1,713.5)        145.8          (51-0)            (278.5)          (1,897.2)
2            (804.6)            (18.9)            (823.5)        102.8          (58.0)            (163-4)            (942.1)
3            (NF5.7)            (12.6)            (998.3)        128.0          (61.5)            (171.8)          (1,103.6)
4            (182.8)            (16.])            (198.9)        104.2          (65-o)            (1o70.4)           (333-1)
5             113.1              (3.6)             109.5          87.3          (58.o)            (158.0)             (19.2)
6             272.5              (6.1)             266.4          91.6          (61-5)            (130.2)             166.3
7            1)4)1.2               -               441.2          88.1          (6I.5)            (128.9)             338.9
8            743.5                 -               743.5          86.3          (61-5)            (128.9)             639.4
9            835.3                 -               835.3          84.3          (61.5)            (128.9)             729.2
10             961.1                -               961.1          87.0          (61-5)            (129.0)             857.6
1]          1,032.8                 _             1,032.8          86.6          (61-5)            (128.9)             929.0
12          i,3O6.9                 -             1,036.9          86.7          (61.5)            (128.9)             933.2
L3          1,042.6                 _             1,042.6          86.7          (61.5)            (128.9)             938.9
14          1,042.6                 -             1,0h2.6          86.7          (61-5)            (128.9)             938.9
15          1,0)2.6                 _             1,042.6          86.7          (61-5)            (128.9)             938.9
16          1,042.6                 _             1,042.6          86.7          (61-5)            (128.9)             938.9
17          1,042.6                 _             1,042.6          86.7          (61.5)            (128.9)             938.9
'.8         1,042.6                 _             1,042.6          86.7          (61-5)            (128.9)             938.9
19          1,042.6                 -             1,042.6          86.7          (61.5)            (128.9)             938.9
20          7,119.6                 -             7,119.6          86.7          (61-5)            (128.9)           7,015.9
Rate ot' Return:                                                                                                         12%
Sensitivity An W-ysis:
-10 % increase in revenues.                                                                                             14%
-10S decrease in revenues.                                                                                              11%  
-10   increc--e in costs.                                                                                                0%
- 20% increase in revenu                                                                                                17% s  1
- 20%   case O 'hc-  3,                                                                                                  6%
-20 % increase in costs                                                                                                  7%
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
GHANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes on the Financial and Economic Rates of Return
A. Financial Rate of Return - Table 1
Company - Costs
1.        The figures in this column are taken directly from the Ghana Live-
stock Company Ltd. - Cash Flow Statement (Annex 4, Table 18), with the excep-
tion of the figure for year 1, which is made up as follows:
M'000
(a)  from Annex 4, Table 18                          1,458.4
(b)  assets taken over - fixed assets   144.0
- herd            456.0        600.0
2t058.4
For the purposes of both the financial and economic rate of return calcula-
tions, th'e value placed on the assets taken over is their estimated realizable
value (and thus the discounted present value of future earnings).
Company - Benefits
2.        The figures for years 1-19 are the sums of the sales and private
farmers' loan service figures shown on the Cash Flow Statement referred to
above. The figure for year 20 is made up as follows:
'000
(a)  sales from Annex 4, Table 18                    1,181.3
(b) from Summary Balance Sheet (Annex 4, Table 17)
- net fixed assets                        1,163.4
- herd                                    2,072.0
4,416.7
3.        This assumption is made that, if the Company went into liquidation
at the end of year 20, the net assets and the herd would realize their book
value. This is reasonable since:



ANiNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 2
(a) replacement expenditures are assumed to equal depreciation
charges;
(b) the costs of firebreaks, land clearing and improved pastures
have been written off; and
(c) book value of the herd is 75% of the estimated selling price.
Private Farmers - Costs and Benefits
4.        Tle figures in the costs column are the figures of Total Outflow
shown in 50 Private Farmers - Cash Flow (Annex 5, Table 4) with the excep-
tion of those for years 1 and 2 which are calculated as follows:
-   --00 .-----
Year 2   Year 3
(a)  total cash outflow, from Annex 5, Table 4    187.0         399.3
(b) value of initial herds of participating farmers
- 20 farmers in year 2 16.82 x 20               336.4          -
- 30 farmers in year 3 16.82 x 30                   -      504.6
523.4     903.9
5.        The figures in the benefits column are similarly obtained from
Annex 5, Table 4, except that:
(a) years 2 and 3 do not include the farmers' cash contributions;
(b) year 20 is calculated as follows:
0,000
- from Annex 5, Table 4                         476.0
- closing value of herds 46.7 x 50            2,335.0
2,811.0
6.        The private farmers' herds have been valued throughout at selling
price, but no residual value has been attributed to the fixed assets (fencing
etc.). This differs from the method used in respect of the Company. First-
ly, the private herds are small enough to be readily saleable and, secondly,
the fixed assets are more cheaply maintained and unlikely to have much, if
any, residual value. In any case, the difference in treatment has no signi-
ficant effect on the rate of return.
7.        The cost and benefit streams include the receipt and repayment of
loans and interest charges, so that the rate of return is that earned on the
private farmers' own investment of cattle and cash.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 3
Shareholders
8.        The column headed "Government" sets out the overall financial
return to Government from the project. The figures are taken directly from
the Government Cash Flow (Annex 8), with the exception of that for year 1,
which has been calculated as follows:
'000
(a)  from Government Cash Flow                      136.5
(b) assets taken over, treated as equivalent
to a cash contribution of                     (600.0)
(463.5)
9.        The column headed "Banks" sets out the financial return to the
banks that are the other shareholders, in terms of their equity contributions
in cash and the dividends received. It does not include any loans by way of
overdraft, or the interest thereon.
10.       The figure for the first year is taken directly from the Company's
Cash Flow Statements (Annex 4, Table 18); the figures for years 8-19 are 60%
of the dividend payments shown on the Cash Flow Statements - the other 40%
going to Government. The figure for year 20 is calculated as follows:
c'000
(a) dividend payment from Cash
Flow Statement 350 x 60%                       210.0
(b) dividend payable from Summary Balance
Sheets (Annex 4, Table 17) 350 x 60%  -        210.0
(c)  share of equity 2,300 x 60%             -    1,380.0
1,800.0
11.       Summary of payments by Company in year 20 - the table below sum-
marizes the payments made by the Company to its shareholders (Government
40%, Banks 60%) in year 20. It'is assumed that all assets are liquidated
for their book value at the end of the year.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 4
Payments during the year are obtained
from the Cash Flow Statements as follows:
Total        Government              Banks
Debenture interest         32.0              16.0               16.0
Income tax                250.6             250.6
Dividend                  350.0             140.0              210.0
Subtotal             632.6             406.6              226.0
Payments at the end of the year are
obtained from the Balance Sheet as follows:
Share of total equity  2,300.0              920.0            1,380.0
Debentures                400.0             200.0              200.0
Income tax outstanding   501.2              501.2
Dividend outstanding      350.0             140.0              210.0
Subtotal           3,551.2           1,761.2            1,790.0
Taxes and duties included
in operating costs                           86.7                  -
Total                                2,254.5            2,016.0
B.  Economic Rate of Return - Table 2
12.       The assumption is made that the economic value of the company herd
at the end of year 20 would be its selling price, not the book value. Other
assets are assumed to be realized at book value.
13.       The adjustment for physical contingencies relates to fixed invest-
ments on the company ranches only. A provision of 10% has been made. The
figures are obtained from Annex 6, Table 1 - Project Cost and Financing.
Taxes, Duties, and Subsidies
14.       Taxes and duties - other than income tax - and subsidisa have been
eliminated from costs for the purpose of calculating the economic rate of
return. The subsidy figures are taken from Annex 8 - Government Cash Flow.
The amounts of taxes and duties have been estimated as follows:



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 5
Buildings                            12%
Fencing                              12%
Firebreaks and tracks                12%
Water facilities                     12%
Land clearing                        12%
Vehicles                             55%
Other equipment                      30%
Pasture and equipment maintenance  20%
Vehicle running costs                40%
Administrative expense               30%
Cattle purchases                      5%
Cedi Overvaluation
15.       The figures in this column represent the adjustment made in respect
of the foreign exchange element in the cost streams in order to allow for the
overvaluation of the Cedi, before arriving at the economic rate of return. The
overvaluation has been taken to be 50%. The foreign exchange element in costs
has been calculated on the basis of the following estimates for individual items:
Buildings                            20%
Fencing                              30%
Water facilities study              100%
Water facilities                     10%
Fertilizer, seeds, pest              50%
Vehicles                             80%
Agricultural machinery               80%
Other equipment                      80%
Expatriate staff                    100%
Pasture and equipment maintenance  80%
Vehicle running costs                50%
Administrative expense               50%
Drugs and minerals                   50%
Chemicals for maize                  50%






3                                                                                                                        z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a         -4 Sa 1r ,3
i;           g    .             ''                                            v                                                                                                                                               0.'.                                        , .       ,   .
0                                                                                                                        <A



