CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 500 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 500 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Proj-ct described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Ghana Livestock
Company Limited with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Ghana Livestock Company Limited a portion
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Ghana Livestock Company Limited;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Branam Ranch" means a maize farm (including about 3,000 acres
of cleared land and improvements) owned by the State Farms Corporation and
located about 20 miles north of Wenchi;


﻿4
(b)   "GLC" means the Ghana Livestock Company Limifted, a private limited
liability company established under the Ghana Companies Code, 1963 (Act 179);
(c)   "Goods" includes livestock;
(d)   "Pong Tamale Ranch" means the portion, to be agreed between the
Borrower and GLC, of a cattle ranch owned by the Ministry of Agriculture of
the Borrower and located about 20 miles north of the town of Tamale, such portion
to comprise about 12,800 acres of land and to include improvements and livestock;
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and GLC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(f "State Farms Corporation" means a public corporation established by
the State Farms Corporation Instrument (Executive Instrument No. 323) of 1962,
as continued in existence by the State Farms Corporation Instrument (Legislative
Instrument No. 398) of 1965 of the Borrower;
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GLC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(h)   "Tadzewu Ranch" means a cattle ranch of about 1,500 acres (including
improvements and livestock) owned by the State Farms Corporation and located
about 15 miles northwest of the town of Denu.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, provided that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Categories


﻿5
I, II and III of paragraph I of Schedule I until the Association has been provided
with evidence satisfactory to it that 75% of the authorized share capital of GLC
has been issued and is fully paid.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) pcr annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable  on  each  June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 1984 and ending June 15, 2024, each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 1994 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02(a) of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause GLC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary


﻿6
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set fort!,, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources necessary or appropriate to enable GLC to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance or the accomplishment of the purposes of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit for carrying out
Parts A and B of the Project to GLC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and GLC, such agreement to provide, inter
alia, that GLC shall borrow said amount at an interest rate of not less than 8%
per annum for a term of sixteen years, including a six year grace period as to
principal, and to contain such other terms and conditions as have been approved
by the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under
Section 3.01 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire promptly as needed all such land,
interests in land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Veterinary Services Division of
its Ministry of Agriculture to provide adequate veterinary services, on terms and
conditions generally applicable to such services, to GLC and participating farmers
in the areas served by the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall issue promptly as needed, import licenses
for supplies required for purposes of the Project, visas and work permits for all
expatriate staff required by GLC and shall take all action required to facilitate
the procurement and import of breeding stock for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause GLC to (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the project, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably


﻿7
request concerning the Project, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project pursuant
to a program developed in consultation with the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
agricultural consultants acceptable to the Association under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall transfer all property and assets of the Pong
Tamale Ranch, and shall cause the State Farms Corporation to transfer all property
and assets of Tadzewu and Branam Ranches, to GLC, in each case in consideration
of the transfer by GLC of its stock and debentures, pursuant to purchase agreements
satisfactory to the Association. Such agreements shall set out in detai' the property
and assets so to be transferred and shall provide for the resettlement, or transfer
to GLC, of the staff employed on such Ranches. Such debentures shall bear interest
at the rate of 8% per annum and shall not mature earlier than 16 years after
such transfer.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   GLC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of GLC under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that GLC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   An order shall have been made, or a resolution shall have been adopted
for the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of GLC without the prior concurrence
of the Association;
(d)   GLC shall have sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of a
substantial portion of its property or assets financed in part out of the proceeds
of the Credit other than in the ordinary course of its business without the prior
concurrence of the Association; and


﻿8
(e)   without the prior consent of the Association, any of the agreements
entered into by GLC for its financing shall have been assigned, amended, suspended
or otherwise waived.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraph (a) or (e) of Section 4.0 1 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and GLC; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
thu effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of GLC
shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and GLC shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(c)   GLC shall have appointed a Managing Director as provided for in
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(d)   GLC   shall have entered into  arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for the provision of finance to GLC; and
(e)   the Borrower, the State Farms Corporation and GLC shall have entered
into agreements for the transfer of the property and assets of the Tadzewu, Branan
and Pong Tamale Ranches as provided in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿9
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, GLC and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of GLC in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and GLC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
GLC in accordarce with its terms; and
(c)   the agreements referred to in Section 5.01(e) are valid, legally binding
and enforceable in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 25, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article 3 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Senior Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M 76
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra


﻿10
For the Asso-,iation:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Harry Reginald Amonoo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿0                                11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   Investment in                   970,000           60%
infrastructure,
equipment and
breeding and
incremental
fattening stock
for ranches
2.    Credit to farmers              260,000           60%
for livestock
development
3.   Expatriate                      210,000           100% of foreign
staff costs                                       expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
4.    Preparation of                  90,000            100% of foreign
second stage                                      expenditures and
livestock proj-                                   70% of local
ect and overseas                                  expenditures
training
5.    Unallocated                    470,000
TOTAL        2,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿12
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit, as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the development of a
commercial cattle industry in Ghana and consists of the following components:
Part A:     The development of three breeding/fattening ranches by rehabilitating
and expanding Tadzewu, Pong Tamale and Branam Ranches including
land clearing, fencing, provision of watering facilities, improvement of
pastures and the purchase of breeding cattle; ranch management and
in-service training.
Part B:     The improvement of about 50 privately owned herds, of between 10
and 400 head each, in the areas within roughly 25 miles of the
abovementioned Ranches, by provision of technical advice and credit
to farmers to finance such items as improved breeding stock, spray
races, fencing materials, land clearing and pasture improvement
materials.
Part C:     The overseas training of Ghanaian ranch managers.
Part D:     Feasibility studies for the identification of further ranch sites and the
preparation of a second stage livestock project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1980.


