CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 500 GH
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 500 GH
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and GHANA
LIVESTOCK COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called GLC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that GLC agree to undertake the obligations toward the Association hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and GLC, the proceeds of the Credit for Parts A and B of the Project
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
GLC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS GLC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so def'ned) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GLC shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and


﻿4
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Contractors employed to carry out works under Part A of
the Project shall be acceptable to the Association and shall be employed upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) GLC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by GLC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, GLC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to GLC by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) GLC shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   GLC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿5
(c)   GLC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of GLC and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. GLC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GLC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) GLC shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   GLC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GLC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GLC
Section 3.01. GLC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. GLC shall, at all times, employ in the positions of Managing
Director, Chief Accountant, and the Ranch Manager of each ranch operated by
GLC persons of qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. GLC shall make sub-loans to qualified participating farmers
in the area served by the Project under sub-loan agreements, the terms and
cond;tions of which shall have been agreed upon by GLC, the Borrower and the


﻿6
Association. To that end, GLC shall submit to the Association for its review a
model copy of the proposed sub-loan agreement which has been approved by the
Borrower not later than six months after the Development Credit Agreement has
become effective.
Section 3.04. GLC shall enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for GLC's financing.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GLC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b)   GLC shall update its financial projections, together with its future
development program, annually and review them with the Association not later
than two months before the start of each financial year.
Section 4.02. GLC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of GLC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of GLC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿7
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify GLC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For GLC:
c/o The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M 76
Accra, GHANA


﻿8
Cable address:
ECONOMICON
ACCRA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of GLC may be taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person
or persons as the Board of Directors of GLC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. GLC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of GLC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by GLC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANA LIVESTOCK COMPANY LIMITED
By /s / Harry Reginald Amonoo
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)  Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project and not covered
by Part A.3 hereof shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)   In order to encourage competitive bidding, contracts under the Project
shall be grouped insofar as is practicable.
3.    (a)  Contracts for procurement of (i) goods and services purchased by
farmers with the proceeds of loans from GLC and (ii) cattle shall not be subject
*         to competitive bidding.
(b)   Contracts for civil works and for procurement of equipment and
materials costing less than $50,000 equivalent each may be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with contracting procedures acceptable
to the Association, provided that the aggregate cost of such contracts does not
exceed $350,000 equivalent.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿10
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
3.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿11
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from  those on which bids were asked
*          or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Associat.-)n promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
4.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


