      CONFORMED COPY
Stefan G. Koeberle
Country Director, Indonesia




      Letter No. CD-407/SPADA/IX/2011                                            September 30, 2011

      Mr. Rahmat Waluyanto
      Director General of Debt Management
      Ministry of Finance
      Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
      Jakarta 10710

      Dear Mr Waluyanto:


        Re: Credit No. 4076-ID and Loan No. 7776-ID (formerly Loan No. 4788-ID) – Support for Poor
          and Disadvantaged Areas Program – Extension of Closing Date to the Development Credit
                                     Agreement and Loan Agreement

             Pursuant to your letter dated July 14th 2011, requesting the International Bank for
      Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank?) to extend the closing date of the above-mentioned
      loan and credit, I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs to your request.

              Please note, however, that, following discussion with KPDT in August 2011, it was agreed
      that no reallocation of budget categories would be required. The Bank does not therefore provide its
      non-objection to your request to reallocate the proceeds of the expenditure categories and this
      extension is made on the basis of maintenance of the existing allocations, as per the original legal
      agreements.

             Accordingly, the Bank has established June 30, 2012 as the later date for the purposes of
      Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement, dated
      August 4, 2005 and July 6, 2009, respectively, between the Republic of Indonesia and the Bank.

                   We would be most grateful if you could acknowledge receipt of this letter.

                                                        Sincerely,



                                                  Franz R. Dress-Gross
                                            Acting Country Director, Indonesia

        Cc :
            -          Mr. Suprayoga Hadi, Deputy Minister for Specific Areas, Ministry for Development of
                       Disadvantaged Areas;
              -        Mr. Max H. Pohan, Deputy for Regional Development and Local Autonomy, State
                       Ministry of National Development Planning/Bappenas;
              -        Ms. Ayu Sukorini, Acting Director of Funds, Ministry of Finance;
              -        Mr. Arief Budhiono, Deputy Assistant for Rural Development Affairs, Ministry for
                       Development of Disadvantaged Areas;
              -        Mr. Deddy Koespramoedyo, Acting Director for Special and Disadvantaged Region, State
                       Ministry of National Development Planning/Bappenas;
Mr. Rahmat Waluyanto                -2-                           September 30, 2011

    -   Mr. Dewo Broto Joko Putranto, Director of Multilateral Foreign Financing, State Ministry
        of National Development Planning/Bappenas.
Mr. Rahmat Waluyanto              -3-                         September 30, 2011



cw. & bcc. Messrs.   M. Good (LEGEA); P. Silva (CTRDM); J. Weetjens, N. Hayward, H.Antlov
(EASID); F.Drees-Gross (EASIS).


File: P078070              LO: MI/AUT/Legal                   YPrasta/ns
