                   Document of
                 The World Bank


                                               Report No: 70143 v1




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                      ON A

          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                         OF THE
SUPPORT FOR POOR AND DISADVANTAGED AREAS PROJECT
         ( CREDIT NO. 4076-ID, LOAN NO. 7776-ID)

                   9 JUNE 2005


                     TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                   June 20, 2012
 Regional Vice President:        Pamela Cox
        Country Director:        Stefan G. Koeberle
Sector Manager / Director:       Franz R. Drees-Gross
       Task Team Leader:         Natasha Hayward




                             2
                                     INDONESIA

                            P078070
      SUPPORT FOR POOR AND DISADVANTAGED AREAS PROJECT

 CREDIT NO. 4076-ID AND LOAN NO. 7776-ID (FORMERLY LOAN NO. 4788-
                               ID)



                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER


               Reallocation of Proceeds and Extension to Closing Date

1. The closing date for the Indonesia, Support for Poor and Disadvantaged Areas
   Project (SPADA), Credit No. 4076-ID and Loan No. 7776-ID (formerly Loan No.
   4788-ID), P078070 would be extended from June 30, 2012 to December 31, 2012.
   The closing date for the Credit and the Loan has been extended once before for 6
   months. If approved, the extension proposed in this restructuring paper would extend
   the Loan and Credit for a total of 12 months beyond the original closing date.

2. In addition, the amounts allocated to the different disbursement categories would be
   reallocated as follows:




3. Project Performance: Project performance has been moderately satisfactory to date.
   While the project was initially delayed and has encountered implementation
   challenges, owing to low capacity in the implementing agency (PIU), the Ministry of
   Disadvantaged Areas (MinDA), and target districts compounded by complexity in
   design, recent implementation support missions by the task team have found
                                            3
   demonstrated improvement in implementation progress, as documented in the most
   recent Aide Memoires and as reflected in the fact that the project has met and, in
   many cases, exceeded its results framework indicator targets.

4. Achievement of PDO: Achievements in social sector service delivery include 15,200
   trained health workers and 138 health clinics rehabilitated; in the education sector,
   about 12,400 teachers trained, and 730 primary schools rehabilitated. These
   achievements are supported by 123 health and education committees that have been
   established. Approximately 3,900 local infrastructure subprojects have been
   implemented, addressing priority needs from water supply to bridges, with recent
   assessment of the quality of the infrastructure indicating that the majority of sub-
   projects are categorized as ‘sufficient to satisfactory’ (65% for sub-district
   infrastructure, and 93% for district infrastructure). Private sector development has
   also made good progress. Assessment of obstacles to local private sector development
   is now conducted by business-government forums in 29 districts and new business
   registration has increased. In the 'legal assistance' component, local-level dispute
   resolution has been enhanced by the introduction and use of alternative dispute
   resolution mechanisms by communities. About 69,000 persons have benefitted thanks
   to legal aid and case handling assistance.

5. There are no outstanding audit reports and the current audit, received on June 24,
   2011, received an unqualified opinion. 93.96 percent of the loan (IBRD 7776) and
   99.90 percent of the credit (IDA 4076) have been disbursed. The current Financial
   Management rating is moderately satisfactory (MS). With this in mind, the task team
   confirms that the project development objective remains achievable.

6. Extension request: The Ministry of Finance (MoF) formally submitted a second
   project extension request to the Bank on June 4, 2012. The six month extension is to
   enable completion of physical works in the SPADA ‘optimalization program’ – an
   additional round of block grants undertaken in seven sub-districts, utilizing unused
   funds of USD1.9 million, saved as a result of the project’s initial delayed start and
   owing to cost-savings on the part of the PIU. In addition, the borrower has requested
   the extension to enable completion of other delayed activities, including an output
   assessment study for the project’s key performance indicators and to enable related
   completion of the SPADA Project Completion Report (PCR).

7. The procurement of the firm to undertake the output assessment has been
   significantly delayed since the original firm selected was debarred by the Bank in
   January 2012, due to cross-sanctions from the Asian Development Bank. When this
   became known, the procurement process had to be re-visited and, while the Bank
   provided its non-objection for the second-ranked firm to prepare a proposal,
   additional delays have since been incurred, relating to the audit status of the second
   ranked firm.

8. Reallocation request: Following approval for the first extension of the SPADA
   closing date until 30 June 2012 on the basis of the existing categories, a further
   request for reallocation of proceeds was received from MoF on December 1, 2011.

                                             4
   Under this request, there will be no changes to the project’s development objective,
   project design, implementation arrangements or safeguard categories.

9. Purpose of reallocation: The reallocation has been requested in light of revised
   expenditures to support the activities agreed under the first project closing date
   extension, and in order to avoid overdrawn budget categories. These activities include
   the additional round of block grants mentioned in paragraph 6 above, the associated
   extension of the National Management Consultant contracts to March 2012 and the
   planned finalization of the borrower’s study on project outputs. The Borrower has an
   action plan to complete all activities. This plan has been reviewed by the task team
   which has found it to be satisfactory.

10. Reallocation categories. Under the Loan, funds are reallocated from savings on
    Planning Grants (Category 2) to Goods and Consultant Services (Category 3) in order
    to extend the contracts of staff beyond the original closing date. Under both the
    Credit and Loan, funds are being reallocated from Goods and Consultant Services for
    Monitoring and Evaluation (Category 4) to Categories 3 and 1, to support the
    additional block grant round. KPDT will finance any technical assistance for
    Monitoring and Evaluation from its own budget sources. The World Bank Task
    Team has confirmed the accuracy and availability of these funds, and has no
    objection to the proposed reallocation.

11. If approved, this would be the first reallocation of budget categories and the second
    extension, after the first extension of the closing date by six months to June 30, 2012,
    approved in September 2011. The task team confirms that the cumulative period of
    extension does not exceed two years.




                                             5
