 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14627

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P078070                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Support For Poor And           Project Costs (US$M):                 134.65               129.07
                         Disadvantaged Areas
                         Project
  L/C Number:            C4076; L4788; L7776           Loan/Credit (US$M):                      104               103.34
      Sector Board:      Social Development            Cofinancing (US$M):                        0                    0

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                  07/19/2005
                                                                Closing Date:              12/31/2011           12/22/2012
          Sector(s):       Other social services (30%); Health (20%); General education sector (20%); Sub-national
                           government administration (15%); Law and justice (15%)
          Theme(s):        Rural policies and institutions (25% - P); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction
                           (25% - P); Participation and civic engagement (24% - P); Rural services and infrastructure
                           (13% - S); Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Bahar Salimova             Christopher David       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                           Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 SPADA's overall objective was to strengthen governance, promote growth, and improve service delivery in 40 of the
poorest districts of Indonesia.

There is a discrepancy between the in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). The DCA states that the objectives of the project are to strengthen governance, promote growth and improve
service delivery in some of the poorest districts of Indonesia: through (a)strengthening of local participation in
development planning; (b) promotion of private investment and job creation; and (c) an increase in the utilization of
effective education, health and dispute resolution services.

While the objectives stated in the Credit Agreement and Section A of the PAD are similar in substance, the objectives
stated in Annex 2 of the PAD are different from them. Annex 2 of the PAD states that the main purpose of the project
is to "help the provinces, districts, and villages that have been affected by conflict make development investments that
will help them improve their economy and encourage peace-building." It also mentions that the project will reduce
poverty and help districts recover from natural disasters and conflict by strengthening local governance and
participation; improving public services, especially in the health and education sectors; and encouraging economic
growth. Although some elements of these objectives coincide with the DCA and Section A of the PAD, encouraging
peace-building and helping with the post natural disaster recovery are not mentioned in either of them.

Additionally, Section A of the PAD mentioned that the project aims to help 40 of the poorest districts of Indonesia
while Annex 2 mentions that the project will be implemented across 100 poorest districts, a considerable difference.

The ICR notes some of the discrepancies in the statement of the objectives within the PAD and between the PAD and
the DCA in a footnote on page 3, but acknowledges that the spirit of the two were similar. The ICR does not however
address the concerning discrepancy between the PAD and Annex 2 which outlines the project logic.
For the purpose of this review, IEG in keeping with the harmonized OPCS/IEG guidelines will use the original PDO as
described in the Credit Agreement under Schedule 2.

In April of 2010, the project objective was revised. SPADA’s revised objective was to strengthen governance, promote
growth, and improve service delivery in 32 of the poorest districts of Indonesia. The change in the objective was
mainly to reduce the number of project districts from 40 to 32, thus excluding districts in Aceh and Nias where the
Bank started implementing a specific Aceh-Nias SPADA project.

According to the ICR, after restructuring, the project added Capacity Development as one of its components. Although
capacity development aspects of this project were mentioned in other components before, after the restructuring it
became a separate component that included provision of legal aid and consultations on formal and informal
mechanisms for local-level dispute resolution. Lastly, restructuring revised objective level indicators simplifying them
and narrowing them down to 6 specific indicators. The revised PDO-level indicators were as follows:

    Improved access to cost-effective, high quality rural infrastructure through participatory planning processes in 8
     provinces
    Increased use of alternative dispute resolution and legal mechanisms by communities to resolve disputes
     peacefully in Maluku province
    Increase in new business registrations
    Increase in use of public health services (# of new patients)
    Increase in national primary school test scores in participating districts
    Decrease in number of violent conflict incidents.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 04/30/2010

c. Components:
 There are discrepancies in the reporting of the original components between the PAD and DCA as well as within the
PAD. The comprehensive list of components included the following:

1) Grants (at appraisal USD80.31M; actual USD63.22M). This component included two types of grants i.e.
sub-district (at appraisal USD38.55M), primarily used for productive purposes and were based on villagers’ proposals
written with the help of a trained facilitator, and district grants (at appraisal USD34.0M) aimed at supporting larger
projects derived from the sub-district planning and proposals. Noteworthy that 15% of the sub-district grants were
reserved for proposals from women and youth groups, while 30% of districts grants were reserved for improving
health and education, as described in the PAD. The PAD also included checking mechanisms for the districts grants
where each year an independent audit commissioned by the national management unit was had to review physical
and financial performance of the grants.

2) Planning Grants (at appraisal USD13.48M; actual USD13.03M), primarily used for seminars, travel to meet
government officials and visit sites and contract advisers. These grants aimed to provide operational support to
communities.

3) Implementation Support /Technical Assistance (at appraisal USD27.79mil; actual USD26.78M), which included
Routine Implementation Support and the Special Program for Aceh. The Routine Implementation Support used in
three packages : technical assistance for three different levels of government, financing specialized consultants to
establish baseline data (including surveys and needs assessments), and support for local capacity building for
education, health, and private sector strengthening as well as enhancement of local legislators’ capacity.

The Specialized Support to Aceh sub-component included USD4.0M for the three years of technical assistance
support to the 12 tsunami-affected districts, but after restructuring it was transferred to another Bank-supported
project. In addition, USD$9.0M was planned to be spent for investment grants from other grant resources, particularly
the Bank-executed Multidonor Trust Fund for Aceh Recovery.

The ICR also mentioned that the Trust Fund Support to enable returning refugees and IDPs reintegrate in the society
and raise their productivity. Additionally, these grants aimed to allow frequent deployment of specialist resources.
4) Monitoring, Evaluation and Studies (at appraisal USD1.83M; actual USD26.06M), primarily used for baselines
and intermediate surveys and case analyses, independent audits and pilot programs for conflict resolution. The ICR
ntoes (p.30) that the large increase in the amount of this component was due to the contribution of the Government of
Indonesia and matching funds from district governments.

5) Capacity Development (at appraisal n/a; restructuring USD13,48M, actual n/a). There is a discrepancy in
identifying this component. For instance, the PAD itself and the DCA does not mention Capacity Development as a
component while the ICR mentioned that it was added after the 2010 restructuring. However, Annex 5 in the PAD
mentioned Capacity Development as one of the components and then details are provided in the ICR but no financing
information is attached.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost and Financing : The original total estimated cost for the SPADA was USD134.65M including USD35.0M
from IDA. Total actual project costs amounted to USD129.42M, of which the Bank’s contribution was USD103.34M.

Borrower contribution : According to the PAD the counterpart was supposed to fund USD30.65M, but the ICR shows
the actual disbursement as USD26.04M. It was planned that the Borrow will contribute USD12.5M under the
Implementation Support component to cover government implementation support, socialization and dissemination,
and materials printing.

According to the Restructuring Letter from June 2012, some funds were reallocated from savings on Planning Grants
to Goods and Consultant Services in order to extend the contracts of staff beyond the original closing date. Under
both the Credit and Loan, funds were reallocated from the Goods and Consultant Services for the Monitoring and
Evaluation category to consultant services and grants, to support the additional block grant round.

Dates: There were two requests for the extension of the project closing dates. The project was extended for a total of
12 months beyond the original closing date and was officially closed on December 31, 2012. According to the
Restructuring Paper dated to June 2012, the last extension for 6 months was requested by the implementing agency
to complete physical works in the SPADA ‘optimization program’ – an additional round of block grants undertaken in
seven sub-districts, utilizing unused funds of USD1.9M, saved as a result of the project’s initial delayed start and
owing to cost-savings on the part of the PIU. Due to the delays in the start-up of the project, the time remaining for the
implementation was insufficient, which was acknowledged by the task team leader in the feedback provided to IEG
during the review process.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of the original PDO is rated as High
The 2009 - 2012 Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia, which was the strategy at the close of the project,
identified five specific areas of engagement, including: (i) Private Sector Development; (ii) Infrastructure; (iii)
Community Development and Social Protection; (iv) Education; and (v) Environmental Sustainability and Disaster
Mitigation. Four of these priority areas (i.e. private sector development, community development, infrastructure and
education) were directly reflected in the original and revised objectives. Additionally, the CPS sets strengthening of
sub-national government institutions and systems as one of its cross-cutting themes, which is also a core focus of the
project. The project objectives remained relevant for the 2013- 2015 CPS, which is built on four main pillars i.e.
Pro-Growth, Pro-Poor, Pro-Green and Pro-Jobs. The Pro-Poor pillar reiterated the importance of community
development and participation. Additionally, the 2013 CPS re-instated the importance of local government capacity
development as one of its cross-cutting areas and strengthening of the private sector as an essential driver for job
creation.

Relevance of revised PDO is rated as High
The revised PDO excluded districts in Aceh and Nias that became part of another Bank-supported project. The
reduction of target districts from 40 to 32 helped the project focus on the areas that were more similar in their
development and poverty patterns, while Aceh and Nias needed more specific attention after the natural disasters
they faced in 2004. The revised PDO remained highly relevant to the 2009-2012 CPS as its substance did not change
from the original PDO.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The relevance of the design is rated Modest.
Initially this project was planned as a support to conflict affected areas and negotiations around it started in 2001.
However, the changes in the Government of Indonesia and its priorities changed the project design and widened its
scope, including more explicit focus on reducing poverty and strengthening governance in disadvantaged and
post-conflict areas.

While the premise for the project is sound, the causal chain had significant limitations, including it's discussion of how
the link between community driven projects and longer-term governance structures were to be maintained and linked
to government funding. In addition, without the necessary data and information required to track the gaps in local
development and the drivers of conflict it is difficult to see how the provision of a CDD model would result in enhanced
economic activity and improved services. The ICR notes that the lesson-learned study highlighted the importance of
development planning, but there is little explaining how the grants and services would sustain longer term prosperity
in the targeted regions.

The project's original coverage included districts in Aceh and Nias that were heavily affected by the Tsunami and
earthquake in 2004 and 2005 respectively. It is unclear how the TF supported activities were separated from the rest
of the project. The Task Team Leader in the response to IEG's inquiry mentioned that on a day-to-day basis, the two
SPADA projects were managed as a single project by both the Government and the Bank, with the exception that for
the Government separate contracts were required for the different provinces/districts in Aceh and Nias. Centrally, it
was the same project teams for the Bank and GOI, with the Bank initially keeping some staff in Aceh for more
intensive implementation support as that project was getting started. It is difficult to reconcile the timing of the
restructure with the needs of both these regions which should have been excluded from the project design much
earlier than the 2010 restructuring.

Finally, the project design and indicators were not specific enough about how the project would address gender
disparities in public and political participation. The PAD mentions that the overall gender strategy for SPADA was to
promote the active participation of women in the project's assessment and decision making mechanisms rather than
making special programs targeting women.The clearest affirmative action measure included in the project design was
the requirement that fifteen percent of the grants to be reserved for proposals from women's and youth groups. But
without adequately designing mechanisms to track and compare these projects, any achievement would have limited
impact given the lack of a causal chain.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Original PDO: The original objective was to strengthen governance, promote growth, and improve service delivery
in 40 of the poorest districts of Indonesia. Based on the description in Schedule 2 of the DCA, the expected outcomes
were: (a)strengthening of local participation in development planning; (b) promotion of private
investment and job creation; and (c) an increase in the utilization of effective education, health and dispute resolution
services.

The efficacy review will be structured around the three outcomes described above to unpack the compound project
objective.

PDO 1 Original: The original objective of strengthening local participation in development planning is rated as
Substantial. This objective includes Component 1 & 2 (Planning Grants) and 4 (Implementation Support).

Outputs: Sub-District
Education construction and activities - 1224
Health construction and activities - 849
Youth activities - 905
Infrastructure Construction and planning - 3361

District
Education construction and activities - 905
Health construction and activities - 771
Infrastructure Construction and planning - 636

Outcomes : Components 1 & 2 provided planning grants used for learning and planning purposes as well as
contracting advisers and carrying out supervision visits. The ICR states that the participatory planning process
allowed community groups to identify their real needs and enabled local governments to accommodate these
priorities. Specifically the local planning boards (Bappeda) and the three technical agencies responsible for project
activities (Public Works, Education and Health) were strengthened by the project. The ICR notes that the project
involved more than 40,000 local government officials in participatory planning and program management and that
local authorities and community groups in the targeted districts expressed their commitment to apply the promoted
participatory planning process as well as to maintain the initiatives when the project ended.

Under Component 3 for the Implementation Support, the project provided capacity support to local governments and
the communities for health and education diagnostics, support for the private sector forums, and training district
legislators in public expenditure analysis and formulation and to provide training and operational support for an
alternative dispute resolution program. Additionally, under this component local communities also received mediation
and legal empowerment as part of the post-conflict reconstruction goal.

According to the Task Team Leader of this project, in December 2013-January 2014, the parliament and President of
Indonesia approved a new Village Law that incorporates participatory principles and lessons from CDD type
programs, specifically PNPM Mandiri (including SPADA), into the functioning of village level government. However, it
is not clear how this participatory approach will be sustained in the future given that most of the work was carried out
by consultants and required a large budget to sustain it. The ICR mentions that SPADA would likely have been a
failed project without the additional support provided through the Bank administered trust fund. These grants allowed
frequent expert support through contracted consultants, including a field team providing implementation support and
a fiduciary team maintaining fiduciary safeguards. Additionally, since the implementing agency, the Ministry for
Development of Disadvantaged Areas (MiNDA), handed over the SPADA sub-projects to local governments in
December 2011, it is not clear whether their institutional capacity and budgets will allow them to carry on these
projects. The ICR reports (p.22) that a key observation amongst participants in the 2012 Learning Workshop held in
Palu was to provide further funding for CDD projects since villages do not have discretionary funds to cover their
development needs. Recent changes to national law has meant there is now a more institutionalized structure to
support community programs and central government allocations will ensure that there are the necessary funds to
support the planning process.

Direct lessons from CDD projects in Indonesia – including SPADA – have been incorporated into the Village Law,
including the use of participatory planning (Article 79), participatory community decision-making through village
assemblies( Article 54), community implementation of village-level projects (Article 81), the use of professional
facilitators (Article 112), and improved transparency and accountability mechanisms (Articles 82 and 86). Specifically,
the links between community and district planning (through the District Grants) and inter-village collaboration were
core aspects of SPADA, and are incorporated into the Village Law. Article 79 of the Village Law states that the “Village
Government shall prepare Village Development planning according to its authority by referring to District/Municipality
development planning” while Articles 83-86 for the first time in Indonesian law introduce the concept of “rural area
development”.

During the period prior to restructuring, it is not clear how the Aceh and Nias provinces benefitted from the project’s
activities. Although the SPADA project financed about USD3.4M for implementation support, technical assistance and
facilitators in 2007-2008 in the 19 districts of Aceh and Nias, after restructuring these provinces were excluded from
the project’s scope and the objective was revised to include only 32 provinces, instead of originally planned 40. Any
activities that may be attributed to the impact of this project in these two districts is not reported and it is difficult to
track what money funded what progress given the mix of trust funds and project allocations. Clearer delineation of
these issues would make the success of the project easier to track and measure.

PDO 1 Revised: The revised objective of strengthening local participation in development planning is rated as
Substantial.

Outcomes : The 2010 restructuring helped the project to clarify its scope and exclude Aceh and Nias from its
coverage as well as simplifying the indicators. However, the concerns mentioned for the original PDO regarding the
sustainability of participatory planning processes remained. There was a clearer link to the identification of
mechanisms required for sustainable implementation of the initiatives and given the weak institutional capacity of the
local government and the need for better regulations, the project did make progress in making the planning process
sustainable. However, better institutional structures to track these issues would have improved the project's
accountability. The ICR points out (p.20) that neither the implementing agency nor the Bank were able to provide a
strong framework for the type of local government reforms that the project intended to bring about, beyond training,
capacity enhancements and increased ownership.

PDO 2 Original & PDO 2 Revised: The original objective of promoting private investment and job creation is rated
Substantial
The revised objective of promoting private investment and job creation is rated as Substantial.

Outcomes ; The original objective of promoting private investment and job creation is rated as Substantial. This
objective falls under Components 2 (Planning Grants) and 3 (Implementation Support).

The ICR explains that there was an increase of 73% in business registration in the target districts and that cumulative
between 2007-2010 there were 14,482 business registrations in the target districts. While it is difficult to track this
impact solely to the project, the ICR does point out that there were One Stop Shops set up to provide services to
business and these were still in operation in 2012. However, the ICR also notes that during the focus group
discussions on private sector development activity conducted for the output study, businesses felt that technical
assistance provided was too short and did not enable them to receive additional benefit to develop local business and
advocacy for enabling the business environment. While these issues are explained in the ICR on page 20, there is no
specificity regarding the expenditure on these components in the outputs section at Annex 2.

Infrastructure development projects conducted under the district block grant component potentially played an
important role for local business development and job creation. According to the ICR, the Borrower’s Completion
report mentioned that at least 50% of infrastructure sub-projects were supporting the private sector development
component. The ICR also mentions that infrastructure sub-projects have a high sustainability and economic value rate
of over 96%.

PDO 3 Original & PDO 3 Revised : The original objective of increasing the utilization of effective education, health
and dispute resolution services is rated as Modest.
The revised objective of increasing the utilization of effective education, health and dispute resolution services is rated
as Modest.

Outputs: Sub-District
Education construction and activities - 1224
Health construction and activities - 849

District
Education construction and activities - 905
Health construction and activities - 771

Other: 6000 persons received legal aid; 26 health committees and 32 education committees trained and established;
11935 teachers and committee members trained; 7039 health workers trained

Outcomes: According to the indicators described in the ICR, the project over achieved some of its target indicators
such as the number of rehabilitated schools and health clinics. For instance, it was originally planned to rehabilitate
300 schools and by the close of the project 854 schools were rehabilitated. Similarly, the target indicator for
rehabilitated health clinics was 50 and the achieved result was 397. In addition, there are a range of particularly high
numbers for training and legal support. However, there is very little detail as to what this training was intended to do
and nor is there adequate evidence linking these outputs to results. The 60000 receiving legal supports appears as a
particularly arbitrary number and aside from the provision of 9 consultants, it is not clear what other legal support was
provided. In addition, the link between these figures and the PDO indicators is weak with no baseline numbers and
poorly formulated national level data providing the justification for claims.

Prior to the restructure, the original indicators under this objective were overly ambitious and were not referenced in
the final outcome description of the ICR. For instance, the original indicators in PAD for the health sector improvement
mentioned % increase in children under one-year of age who are fully immunized and % increase in professionally
assisted birth deliveries, both of which were dropped from the list of indicators after the restructuring. Based on
available project documentation, it does not look that the project tackled these indicators and achieved any outcomes.
Similarly, two of the sub-indicators for the Improvement of Education access indicator (i.e. % increase in attendance
rates in elementary and jr. secondary schools and % increase in completion rates for elementary and jr. secondary
schools) don’t seem to be the project’s focus during the implementation period. Additionally, the original indicators
aimed to positively change the perception of changes in education service delivery quality. Since there was no
baseline survey conducted for this study, it is hard to compare the ex-ante and ex-post perceptions of the villagers
affected by the project. The satisfaction survey conducted in 2011 simply asked whether people were satisfied or not
with the quality of services not about the changed perception.

Further, the attribution of some of the dispute resolution and community based legal empowerment may be
compounded by other development initiatives implemented in the covered districts. As such, the Bank’s Justice for
Poor (J4P) program was launched in Indonesia in 2002 and aimed to provide grass roots community-based legal aid
and strengthen local government and justice sector institutions. While this program may well have been linked to the
project, there were additional TF monies attached to this input which is not discussed.

The revised PDO sought to deal with some of these issues, but there is little explanation of how far it got in reconciling
education and health attainment with a CDD project which in many ways was seeking to do other things. Although the
end-of-project impact assessment shows that a total of 91% of respondents reported satisfaction with education
services provided by the project; 89% with health services; and 98% classified infrastructure sub-projects as ‘good’ or
‘satisfactory’, it is not clear how much of the changes in the education and health sector can be directly attributed to
the project impact. Nor is it clear that the activities were likely to have any impact on educational and health
attainment in the medium to short term.
 5. Efficiency:
  The ICR briefly discussed three methods for the Economic and Financial Analysis of the project in Annex 3. The
three methods are a.) EIRR calculation of the sample of sub-projects; b.) Net Present Value; and c.) Cost Befit Ratio.
The ICR notes, there is a discrepancy of the EIRR target between the DCA that mentioned EIRR at 35% compared to
the 20% in the PAD. The restructuring in 2010 used the PAD target of 20%. The ICR’s estimates of EIRR are based
on the assessment conducted by the SPADA team of 32 sub-projects from 8 districts including road/bridge, water
supply and irrigation, which represented 0.4% of the total number of sub-projects. The ICR notes that the project’s
EIRR level is roughly commensurate – when adjusted to similar time horizons – with EIRR levels calculated for similar
subprojects completed by the PNPM Rural program in seven provinces in 2004 and 2012. In Annex 3, the ICR calls
into question the EIRR methodology and analysis as well as reliability of capturing actual gains. It even cites these
concerns as a reason for MinDA not to launch the full-scale SPADA EIRR. However, the ICR bases its efficiency
rating and description based on the EIRR methodology despite the shortcomings highlighted in the Annex. The
assessment of this project’s efficiency is also difficult as it is not clear how the TF money were used and contributed to
the EIRR, if any.

ICR mentions that an average ratio between cost and benefit for each sub-project is 2.00 meaning that the investment
for the sample infrastructure sub-projects provided benefit two times the cost.

ICR’s estimates of project’s average NPV is 61,654,054 Indonesian Rupiahs, but it also provides a caveat that one of
the projects had the negative value of at 3,442,384.

Based on the Cost Benefit analysis, but considering shortcomings described above, the project efficiency is rated as
Substantial


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                       20%                                     0%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                     34.41%                                    0.4%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   While the project had Highly relevant objectives and was successful in it's implementation of a range of projects
and community planning activities, there are moderate shortcomings. The project design was Modest with an
inadequate causal chain, unclear links between the key components and overly ambitious targets that were not
always linked to its activities. Achievement against the three objectives remained the same both before and following
the restructure with Substantial achievement against governance, Modest for service delivery, and Substantial
against growth, but with the caveat that this result has attribution issues. Efficiency was rated Substantial. This results
in an outcome of Moderately Satisfactory
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There are several issues and challenges that can pose risk to development outcome and affect the impact of this
project. Broadly these challenges can be categorized as following: a) weak institutional capacity and lack of a legal
framework to sustain the outcomes and b) ongoing conflicts in some of the regions.

a)weak institutional capacity and lack of legal framework to sustain the outcomes

The ICR highlights (p.23) the commitment from local governments and communities to sustain the public
infrastructure funded under the project and that maintenance teams are established in all districts. In addition,
legislative commitment on the half of the federal government should ensure the long term viability of the established
frameworks, even if they take time to be built and instituted.

b) Ongoing social conflict
The ICR also notes (p.23) that continued social conflicts in some project sites (e.g. in Central Sulawesi, Maluku,
Central Kalimantan), could affect governance and growth outcomes. Having said that, the government has made
progress in finding the right array of support to ensure viability for the CDD model and the growth of greater social
cohesion.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project objective was very ambitious given the complexity of the country context and issues around
poverty reduction and community participation and strengthening. The objectives not only sought to address
issues of poverty but also aimed to look into post-conflict reconciliation and conflict resolution. As noted in the
ICR, at the time of the design of this project, the Bank had limited experience in operating in post-conflict and
politically fragile areas, and thus relied on a 'learning from doing' approach.

Furthermore, the initial project design included too many indicators that were complex and unclear as well as
over-ambitious. The ICR reports (p.24) that due to the long preparation period and multiple stakeholder demands,
the project, as designed, was too ambitious and attempted to cover too many diverse activities and locations,
including some difficult pilots such as improving access to justice, and support for conflict resolution. For instance,
while health services improvement was just one of the many sub-components of this project, the original indicators
were set to measure the improvements in health outcomes through tracking the increase in percentages of
children under one-year of age who are fully immunized, percentages of professionally-assisted birth deliveries
and percentages with increased access to and satisfaction with health care services. These indicators were very
specific and too complex to achieve through a project where the main objective goes beyond the improvement of
the health care system and health services delivery.

Although the PAD mentions risks in setting out to build open participatory planning processes in the environment
where local government was clientalistic and implementing agencies had weak capacity, it underestimated their
combined effect. For instance, the ICR mentions (p.26) that due to the lack of experience and capacity MinDA
staff were not able to procure consultants services in a timely manner and thus many packages were delayed -
30% by more than a year. These issues should have been carefully considered in the design stages for the
project.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project completed its regular supervision missions. Some of the supervision missions were funded through
Bank Executed Trust Funds at the PNPM Support Facility in Indonesia. As noted in the ICR, supervision reports
from the early stages of the project mentioned issues with the procurement disbursements and financial
management as well as highlighting implementation delays. Additionally, supervision report findings were
communicated to the Government and the implementing agency regularly and were used to negotiate differences
and tensions between the Bank and the Borrower. Although these findings helped slowly introduce changes to the
project implementation and improve results, they could have happened earlier in the implementation process.
Additionally, the ICR also notes that environmental supervision and monitoring began rather late for the SPADA
projects, and there was only one training event for environmental safeguards, held by the Bank in 2011. Again,
extremely late in the project cycle.

Having noted these limitations, the Bank task team did make regular adjustments, approached the restructure and
the MTR with a positive approach to change, and did work with partners to make the necessary adjustments.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Once the new government came to power in 2004, it made poverty reduction and post-conflict reconstruction
one of its top priorities and included these priorities in its Country Assistance Strategies. Through its national
BAPPENAS/PMU the Government provided strong guidance and quality enhancement support to MinDA and
even provided a large matching grant for M&E activities. However, it may have been too early for the Government
to hand over the implementation of such a complex project to MinDA, an agency that was only created in 2004 and
had no line agencies and was dependent on local government agencies in disadvantaged and poor areas of the
country, which in turn lacked capacity and sufficient budget. The Government could have provided more technical
and financial support to MinDA to avoid some of the delays in the procurement of the consultant services.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    MIinDA was a young agency that had low institutional capacity and budget at the time the project was
launched. It hoped to work through local governments i.e. BAPPEDAs to implement some of the project activities,
but they also had limited budget, which had implications for local project supervision. Additionally, due to
insufficient budget allocation for consultants MinDA was not able to attract high quality consultants and facilitators.
This being said, MinDA’s performance improved in later stages after the project was restructured and once special
considerations were made to improve the technical capacity of the agency.

Since positive changes happened very late in the implementation process, namely in 2010-2011, and since some
of the delays in procurement and contracting was due to MinDA’s performance and low capacity, its performance
is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The original PDO had around 36 indicators that were overly ambitious and complex given the scope of the project.
Some of the indicators were dropped after the 2010 restructuring, but overall the M&E design was very weak given
the complexity and overlapping of the indicators. Based on available project documentation, it does not look like the
project tackled these indicators separately and simply conducted a satisfaction survey as part of the lead in to the
project completion. Even after the restructure, the weak link between the intentions of the project and the indicators
remained.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   According to ICR the M&E policy and direction were under the responsibility of BAPPENAS’s Project Management
Unit (PMU), while the day-to-day management of the M&E activities were implemented by MinDA’s Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PAD provides a very detailed description of the M&E framework and how it will be
implemented and specifically spells out that the data will be disaggregated by gender and sub-district level. However,
during the project implementation the execution of the framework was very weak. As such, there was no independent
baseline study commissioned for this project, and after the 2010 restructuring the project cancelled two M&E activities
as non-essential at that stage of the project and instead transferred the funds to other categories. According to the
ICR, SPADA would use data from the planned nation-wide Governance and Decentralization Survey (GDS) as
base-line, which did not include data dis-aggregated at the sub-district level. The ICR also mentioned (p.16) that some
of the M&E activities were dropped due to the delays in the implementation and based on the recommendations of the
2009 MTR. The latter rated the project’s implementation of the M&E framework as Unsatisfactory.

Outcome indicators were further refined after the 2010 restructuring to make them less complex and ambitious. This
narrowed down the number of indicators to 15. The ICR mentions that the implementing agency, MinDA, in
collaboration with the Bank, collected data on levels of school and health center utilization and to determine the
economic rate of return of sub-projects toward the end of the project and an independent project impact study was
finally carried out by MinDA in October -November 2012. Although these activities produced some urgently needed
data, it was too late in the project implementation cycle to be meaningfully used for the purposes of this project.
 c. M&E Utilization:
   ICR mentioned drawbacks of MinDA’s low institutional capacity to deliver regular progress reports to the Bank.
Annual ‘clinics’ to improve the MIS were organized by the Bank between 2007 and 2010, and there were also special
weekly clinics held in 2010 and 2011. The ICR reports (p.15) that while the MIS reached only 30% of data availability
and accuracy in 2009, it had improved to more than 85% by 2011.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

Four safeguard policies were triggered under this project: (i) Environmental Assessment, (ii) Natural Habitat, (iii)
Indigenous Peoples, and (iv) Projects in Disputed Areas. The ICR notes that the overall
safeguard compliance was satisfactory throughout project implementation with no serious
problems but the environmental safeguard supervision started late during the project implementation cycle.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
As noted in the ICR and the 2009 MTR, the Bank’s Procurement performance and Financial Management support
were weak on this project which caused significant delays in the disbursement and implementation processes. The
ICR notes that many procurement packages were delayed by up to a year and frequently had more than two
amendments. Furthermore, some packages were delayed for two years and then had to be procured again because
the selected firm was debarred. According to the ICR, by November 2007, MinDA had not submitted any financial
monitoring reports since the grant became effective. Despite the Bank team’s discussions and requests of MinDA to
appoint an FM specialist for the project, it did not take place until later in the project

Only in early 2011 the Bank task team and MinDA mobilized additional consultants to district and provincial level to
provide more intensive technical assistance to the local project team, particularly related to the preparation of financial
records/reports and finalization of fraud cases. Although the project made these positive changes, they were made
very late in the project implementation cycle. Making the necessary adjustments so late during the implementation
also predisposed the project for restructuring to extend the deadline twice as some of the physical works were not
completed.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR reports that the implementation of safeguard mechanism in financial management, community accountability
forums, and audit by BPKP, are very effective to promote the implementation of transparency and accountability in
project financial management. This contributed to the accomplishment of project in preventing and finalizing the fraud
cases and returning 98.45% of the misused funds.

Delays in the launching of the project activities negatively affected the implementation. This was acknowledged by the
Task Team Leader in the response to IEG's questions. The Team Leader also acknowledged that the project had an
overly complex procurement plan and procedures for the recipient, which were the primary cause of late project start.

d. Other:




12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                 Moderately
                              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                   Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                  Moderately
                              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                 Moderately
                                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Some of the useful lessons identified in the ICR are:

    The need to resist the temptation to ‘over-design’ projects and introduce complex objectives.
    The assessment of district capacity during the selection process (e.g. related to local regulation and budget for
     operation and maintenance), as well as capacity of local level institutions and human resources to maintain
     and sustain project activities should be part of the project design, not an after-thought.
    Strengthening community institutions may not be possible within a single project and may require additional
     support, both budget and technical support, to be successful.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is comprehensive, covering the requisite categories. It includes a good analysis of restructured components
and indicators and was forthcoming about issues related to procurement, Bank’s performance and financial
management.

However, the ICR does not specify which achievements are directly attributed to the project and how they were
considered in the final Outcome rating. The ICR also does not have an analysis of how the project may have had a
different effect on various stakeholders including women, youth groups and ethnic minorities. It does not recognize the
fact that the project needed to do more tailored activities for these groups and that the available data on their
participation is not sufficient. For instance, the ICR mentions women’s participation in planning and decision meetings
of SPADA stood at 30%, but it does not look further at why this is not a positive outcome and how it may affect the
overall outcome of the project.

Additionally, the Efficiency rating is not clearly spelled out and there is contradictory use of EIRR within the ICR and
its Annex 3, where the ICR questions the methodology and calculations of the EIRR. In general, Annex 3 on
Economic and Financial analysis is not comprehensive.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
