Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16631
IM[PLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3636--SLO)
June 2, 1997
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =        Slovene Tolar (SIT)
1992             1993             1994             1995             1996
Tolar per US $
(end period)             98.7              131.8            126.5            126.0            141.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CEFTA                    Central European Free Trade Association
CEM                      Country Economic Memorandum
EBRD                     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA                      Europe and Central Asia
EDI                      Economic Development Institute
EFSAL                    Enterprise and Financial Assistance Loan
EFTA                     European Free Trade Association
EIB                      European Investment Bank
EU                       European Union
FIAS                     Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FRY                      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GATT                     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GEF                      Global Environment Facility
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDF                      Institutional Development Fund
IFC                      International Finance Corporation
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
LDS                      Liberal Democracy of Slovenia
LIBOR                    London Interbanking Offer Rate
MIGA                     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO                      Non Governmental Organization
OECD                     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAYG                     Pay-as-you-go
PHARE                    Poland Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PSD                      Private Sector Development
SFRY                     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SKD                      Slovene Christian Democrats
SLS                      Slovene People's Party
UN                       United Nations
WTO                      World Trade Organization
XGS                      Export of Goods and Services
ZLSD                     United List of Social Democrats
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
The World Bank
ECA Vice President                      Johannes Linn
EC2 Acting Director                     Hans Apitz
Acting Lead Economist                   Wei Ding
Task Manager                            Bruce Courtney



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN 3636-SLO
Contents
Preface .................. 
Evaluation Summary ..................ii
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment .
A.         Background and Project Objectives                     .I
B.         Achievement of Project Objectives                     .3
C.         Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project      .7
D.   Project Sustainability                                .8
E.  Bank Performance                                     .8
F.  Borrower Performance                                   .9
G.   Assessment of Outcome                                  .9
H.  Future Operations .10
I.  Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II. Statistical Tables .1
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .1
Table 2: Related Bank; Loans/Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable                              .13
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation                  .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                        .18
Table 8A: Project Costs ................                                              18
Table 8B: Project Financing                             .18
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                         .19
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN 3636-SL
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in Slovenia, for which a loan in the amount of US$80 million equivalent was approved
on July 15, 1993 and made effective on November 19, 1993.
The loan was made to the Republic of Slovenia and was closed on December 31, 1995. The first
tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 31, 1994. The second (final)
tranche was released on December 20, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Bruce Courtney (EC2CO) of the Europe and Central Asia region
with contributions by Mr. Milan M. Cvikl (economist on external service) and reviewed by Mr. Michel
Noel, Chief (EC2CO), Ms. Illiam Zurayk, Principal Operations Officer (EC2CO), Mr. Hormoz Aghdaey,
Senior Financial Analyst (EC2CO), Mr. Luca Barbone, Lead Economist (EC2DR). The Slovene
authorities concur with the general conclusions of this report and have chosen not to prepare their own
evaluation of the EFSAL. The report incorporates the comments of the Bank of Slovenia.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, in February 1997. It is
based on material in the project file and discussions held with officials of the Republic of Slovenia.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
6079-SLO
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Following its independence in 1991, Slovenia launched a stabilization program to reduce high
rates of inflation and increase foreign exchange reserves. The program met its two immediate objectives
but at the cost of further contraction in economic activity. In an effort to sustain the early success in
stabilization and establish the foundations for sustained long-run growth, the Government began in 1993,
with support from the Bank. under the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL),
implementation of a comprehensive and integrated program of enterprise and banking reforms.
2.    The EFSAL was the first World Bank loan to the Republic of Slovenia. The program was
designed to support Sloveniai's transition to a market economy and to restore economic growth. The
program supported implementation of structural reforms which aimed at addressing the distorted
microeconomic foundations which underpinned the chronic inflation and economic stagnation in the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The reforms were to be implemented under a stable
macroeconomic framework, based on supportive fiscal and incomes policies.
3.    The principal measures supported under the EFSAL program included:
a) under the macroeconomic framework: moderate short-run fiscal deficits encompassing
support for bank and enterprise restructuring and the social safety net, followed by moderate
fiscal contraction in the medium-run; reduction in the ratio of Government revenues and
expenditures, including pension expenditures, to GDP; and a restrictive wage policy;
b) in the area of enterprise sector reform:  privatization of socially-owned enterprises;
conversion of socially-owned enterprises in the commercial public services to joint-stock or
limited liability State-owned enterprises, and development of the regulatory framework for
these enterprises; and the restructuring of enterprises in the steel, power, and railway
subsectors.
c) in the area of banking sector reform: rehabilitation of insolvent or seriously undercapitalized
banks, including the severance of ownership links between enterprises and these banks; the
exchange of the frozen claims of all Slovene banks against the National Bank of Yugoslavia
(NBY), with bonds issued by the Republic of Slovenia; the enhancement of legal and
regulatory framework for banking and the strengthening of bank supervision; and bank
privatization.
4.    The loan was designed to have two components: a policy component (in the amount of US$75
million equivalent) and a teclhnical assistance component (in the amount of US$5 million). The Slovene



- iii -
Government was able to implement the bulk of the agreed technical assistance through bilateral and
multilateral funding. This support was inter alia provide by the IMF, the U.K. Know-How Fund, EU-
Phare, and USAID. The funds provided under this component of the loan were subsequently reallocated
to the policy component.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     Slovenia has made good progress in transforming its economy to a market-based system.
Growth has been achieved in a stable macroeconomic environment and in conjunction with considerable
microeconomic reforms. The general Government budget deficit remained below the agreed limit of 2
percent of GDP while providing sufficient fiscal support to enterprise and banlk restructuring and the
social safety net. The privatization of socially-owned enterprises is in its final stages. Gross enterprise
losses fell from 16.7 percent of GDP in 1992 to 6.2 percent in 1995, as a result, in part, of the
restructuring efforts in the railway and steel sectors, and price adjustments in the energy sector. Two
large banks have been rehabilitated and are preparing for privatization. A number of banks have become
majority privately owned following the privatization of enterprises holding shares in these banks and
new participation by both domestic and iForeign investors. The quality of the banks' loan portfolios has
improved, interest rate spreads have declined substantially, real interest rates have fallen, and the banks
have become profitable.
6.     The program contained a large number of targets all of which were met with the exception of the
following five second tranche conditions: (i) limiting pension expenditures to not more than 12.5 percent
of GDP in 1994; (ii) submission to Parliament of an energy sector law; (iii) adoption of new legislation
governing the BRA; (iv) adoption of fully satisfactory banking legislation; and (v) development of a
privatization strategy for banks under rehabilitation. These conditions were waive,d in light of the overall
progress that had been made in implementing the reform program and the actions that had been taken
towards meeting the objectives of the conditionality.
7.    However, the program was implemented over a much longer period than had been originally
anticipated, and the key legislation on banking and privatization of State-owned assets and energy are
still not in place. This is a result of an underestimation by the Bank and the Government in the design of
the program of the time that would be required for the elaboration and implementation of the program's
wide-ranging structural measures. It is also due to the particularly slow pace of legislative reform in
Slovenia in light of: (i) a conscious choice by the Government to proceed slowly on elements of the
program that involved sensitive political issues in order to have time to carefully consider all aspects of
each course of action in an effort to avoid mistakes, (ii) the lengthy process of consensus building that
was required within the governing coalition, and (iii) an intervening election periocl and a long process of
deliberation in Parliament. The pace of implementation was also affected by competing priorities such
as reaching agreements with the Paris and London Clubs and joining international organizations, which
absorbed a large amount of the time and intellectual resources of the small number of staff in the
Government and resulted in a somewhat sllower implementation of the EFSAL prograrm.
8.    Despite the slow pace of implementation of some components of the program, the overall rating
of the project is satisfactory and the achievements of the EFSAL program are sustainable. A lot of
progress has been made in addressing the distorted microeconomic foundations of the former social-
ownership system.



- iv -
Summary of Findings
9.    The broad scope of the program was clearly too ambitious to be implemented in the narrow time-
frame envisaged during the design of the EFSAL, especially with respect to the legislative components
of the program. Aside fromn these delays and despite the complexity of the program, the Slovene
authorities demonstrated a remarkable capacity to implement the EFSAL program on their own. The
implementation of the program was very capably carried out by a variety of Slovene institutions and
agencies including the MOF, the BoS, the Privatization Agency, various line ministries, the Development
Fund, and the BRA. Momentum has been built to complete the reform agenda. While there is some risk
that the adoption of necessary banking and privatization legislation will be further postponed, this would
not affect the sustainability of the program, but would rather diminish efficiency gains and potential
growth. The new Government is aware of these risks and has placed completing these and other reforms
(such as Social Security and public finance reforms) at the top of its agenda for the coming period of
preparation for accession of Slovenia to the EU. The achievement of sustainable long-run growth will
depend, inter alia, on final adoption of the pending banking and privatization legislation, and on
Slovenia's ability to complete the privatization of the banks and enterprises, to push ahead with
comprehensive reform of the pension and health systems, and to accelerate development of the domestic
capital markets.
Future Operations
10.   A new CAS for Slovenia is being finalized and has recently been discussed with the
Government. The CAS will support an assistance program of the Bank group for Slovenia structured
around the four key development objectives pursued by the Government as part of its EU pre-accession
strategy: completing the systemic transformation of the economy; restructuring and strengthening the
management of public finance; ensuring social sustainability; and achieving environmentally sustainable
growth. The program will be delivered through a mix of technical assistance and highly selective
investment projects. Among its major elements will be supporting the second wave of privatization of
the major public services enterprises and establishing the regulatory framework for these activities; and
supporting reform of the social security system, particularly pension reform.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   Some of the main lessons that can be drawn from the experience of preparing and implementing
the EFSAL are summarized below:
a) Comprehensiveness of Program Design. The EFSAL was designed as a comprehensive
reform package addressing interrelated macroeconomic, enterprise, and banking sector
problems within a single consistent framework. Concems were raised during the preparation
and implementation of the EFSAL regarding the broad scope of the program. However,
experience has shiown in Slovenia as well as in other transition countries that consistency and
coherence of macroeconomic, enterprise, and banking sector reforms are essential for the
success in achieving the reform objectives. This was particularly relevant in Slovenia
because the EFSAL program was the first comprehensive medium-term program for
economic transformation following independence. The scope of the program and some of its
main elements suLch as bank restructuring was replicated in subsequent programs in the other
countries in the region.



v -
b) Ambitious Time-frame. Any program of major adjustments of the enterprise and banking
sectors addresses the core foundation of the economic system. It should therefore be
expected that such reforms generate wide-ranging debate on policy, institutional, and
legislative issues. This was particularly true in the case of Slovenia, a newly independent
country which was building its democratic institutions, its public adrninistration, and in
which there has been a tradition of consensus building. During preparation of the EFSAL,
the time required to develop such a consensus and to subsequently adopt the required
legislation was underestimated by the Government and the Bank. This led to an overly
ambitious expected time-frame for meeting the second tranche release targets.
c) The Creation of Specialized Institutions.  One of the challenges in designing and
implementing systemic reforms is to build the capacities to effectively rnanage the process.
Another challenge is to benefit from the skills acquired in this process but at the same time
ensure that special institutions charged with specific transformation tasks are phased out
once their mission is accomplished. At the onset of the reforms, the Slovene authorities
established institutions with clear mandates, including the Privatization Agency and the
BRA.   These institutions were professionally staffed and fulfilled their mandates
satisfactorily. The Government is now preparing to wrap up the operations of the two
agencies. The two agencies have staff that are highly experienced and who can contribute to
further development efforts both in the public and private sectors. This has been a successful
experience in building and evolving transitional public institutions, which other transition
countries in the region can usefully emulate.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
ENTERPIRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
6079-SLO
PARl I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background and Project Objectives
1.    Following the declaration of its independence from Yugoslavia in June 1991, Slovenia was
immediately confronted by a formidable set of challenges that included the building of national
institutions and a democraltic government, and addressing entrenched inflation, a critically low level of
foreign exchange reserves, and recession. This was exacerbated by the risk entailed by the war in
neighboring countries.
2.    Although Slovenia sustained the highest standard of living among the former Yugoslav
republics, like other republics, its economic performance deteriorated drastically in the late 1980s. The
structural weaknesses of the Yugoslav system of social ownership and the lack of well-functioning factor
markets were at the root of the economic deterioration. In the absence of owners interested in the long-
run viability of the enterprises, social ownership resulted in chronically excessive wage pressures and
poor evaluation of investment projects. The system led to persistent and widespread losses which were
financed by subsidized credits from the banking system. The banks, which were owned and controlled
by the enterprises, suffered an increasing deterioration in their loan portfolios and were ultimately
supported by subsidized rediscounts from the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). The NBY also
absorbed the costs related to the foreign currency deposits and other foreign liabilities of domestic banks,
in order to protect the banks from even greater financial difficulties. By the late 1980s, these operations
led to large NBY quasi-fiscal deficits, loss of monetary control, and increasing inflation.
3.    In October 1991, the Slovene authorities established a new currency, the Slovene Tolar, and
launched a stabilization program aimed at reducing inflation and increasing foreign reserves. The
program included a sharp real devaluation of the Tolar followed by a managed float, tight monetary
policy, and continued general Government budget surpluses. The program quickly made substantial
progress in achieving its two immediate objectives as end-year inflation fell from about 250 percent in
1991 to about 90 percent in 1992 and gross reserves rose from 0.3 months of imports in 1991 to 1.2
months in 1992.
4.    The breakup of the Yugoslav Federation led to a drastic decline in the volume of trade and
financial flows among the republics which accelerated the contraction of output in all of the republics.
The political instability and ensuing wars led to a collapse of the tourism and transportation sectors.
These factors resulted in a 9 percent drop in Slovenia's GDP in 1991 and economic activity continued to
contract as GDP declined by 5.4 percent in 1992. By 1992, gross enterprise losses had soared to 16.7
percent of GDP. Aside from the impact of these losses on the portfolio of the banks, the banking system
was further weakened by the frozen claims on NBY related to the foreign currency deposits of
households. The Slovene Government recognized that prudent macroeconomic policies would not be



- 2 -
sufficient to ensure a sustainable recovery of GDP without addressing the deep-rooted structural
problems inherited from the Yugoslav economic system.
5.    The Government and the Bank of Slovenia launched, with support from the Bank under the
EFSAL, a comprehensive program of reforms designed to address the key structural problems in the
Slovene economy.  The main objectives of the program  were to take significant steps towards
transforming Slovenia into a full-fledged market economy and achieving sustainable economic growth.
The core of this program focused on reforms of the enterprise and banking sectors to be implemented
under a stable macroeconomic framework, based on supportive fiscal and incomes policies. The EFSAL
was the first Bank loan to Slovenia following its independence and its accession to membership in the
Bank in February 1993.
6.    The principal measures supported under the EFSAL program included:
a)    under the macroeconomic framework: moderate short-run fiscal deficits of 2 percent of
GDP encompassing fiscal support to bank and enterprise restructuring and the social
safety net, followed by a modest fiscal contraction in the medium-run; a reduction in the
ratio of Government revenues and expenditures to GDP by one percent of GDP per year
through 1996; a reduction in the ratio of pension benefits to GDP; completion of a study
for comprehensive pension reform; and a restrictive wage policy;
b)    In the area of enterprise sector reform. privatization of 400 socially-owned enterprises
accounting for 20 percent of the value added of all enterprises subject to the 1992 Law
on Ownership Transformation, as the first stage of a privatization program which would
eventually privatize all enterprises in industry, trade and services except in a limited
number of commercial public services; conversion of socially-owned enterprises in the
commercial public services to joint-stock or limited liability State-owned enterprises,
and the development of the regulatory framework for these enterprises; and the
restructuring of enterprises in the steel, power, and railway sectors;
c)    in the area of banking sector reform:  rehabilitation of insolvent or seriously
undercapitalized banks, including the severance of ownership li;nks between enterprises
and these banks; the exchange of the frozen claims of all Slovene banks against the NBY
with bonds issued by the Republic of Slovenia; the enhancement of legal and regulatory
framework for banking, and the strengthening of bank supervision; and bank
privatization.
7.    The loan was designed to have two components: a policy component (in the amount of US$75
million equivalent) and a technical assistance component (in the amount of US$5 million). The technical
assistance component was intended to finance undertakings essential for the successful imnplementation
of the Government's reform program including: a pension reform study; the execution of initial public
offerings; the implementation of the institutional development plan for banking supervision in the Bank
of Slovenia (BoS), and the strengthening of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) in managing bank
rehabilitation and the debt recovery process. The Slovene Government was able to implement the bulk
of the agreed technical assistance through bilateral and multilateral funding. This support was inter alia
provided by the IMF, the U.K. Know-How Fund, EU-Phare, and USAID. The funds provided under the
technical assistance component of the loan were reallocated to the policy component at the time of
second tranche release in December 1995.



- 3 -
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
8.     Slovenia has made good progress in transforming its economy to a market-based system.
Growth has been achieved in a stable macroeconomic environment and in conjunction with considerable
microeconomic reforms. The general Government budget deficit remained below the agreed limit of 2
percent of GDP while providing sufficient fiscal support to enterprise and bank restructuring and the
social safety net. The privatization of socially-owned enterprises is in its final stages. Gross enterprise
losses fell from 16.7 percent of GDP in 1992 to 6.2 percent in 1995, as a result, in part, of the
restructuring efforts in the railway and steel sectors, and price adjustments in the energy sector. Two
large banks have been rehabilitated and are preparing for privatization. A number of banks have become
majority privately owned following the privatization of enterprises holding shares in these banks and
new participation by both domestic and foreign investors. The quality of the banks' loan portfolios has
improved, interest rate spreads have declined substantially, real interest rates have fallen, and the banks
have become profitable.
9.     However, the broad scope of the program was clearly too ambitious to be implemented in the 12
month time-frame envisaged during the design of the EFSAL. In fact, despite tremendous progress in
implementing most of the EFSAL program a few components of the program, especially those which
required the adoption of new legislation, remain on the new Government's reform agenda in the
beginning of 1997.
10.   Macroeconomic Framework.   Slovenia's overall macroeconomic performance has been
impressive. Annual inflation was reduced to single digits by the end of 1995, annual GDP growth
averaged 3.6 percent between 1993 and 1996, and external and internal balance was maintained. In
recognition of its performaLnce, Slovenia has recently been awarded, by all major international rating
agencies, the highest credit rating of any transition economy.
11.   Fiscal Policy and Pension Reform. The Government has managed to keep the budget virtually
balanced since 1992, com]pared to deficits of L5 to 2.0 percent of GDP projected in the program.
Revenues declined by I percent of GDP in 1994 to 46 percent of GDP, in line with the target of the
EFSAL program. However, the Govemment failed to continue this reduction and the ratio of revenues
to GDP has remained at 46 percent in subsequent years. This is due to a lack of progress in reducing the
ratio of total expenditures to GDP primarily because of the Government failed to reduce pension
expenditures. The Government did submit draft legislation to Parliament in 1994 which included
proposals to increase the assessment period and change indexation rules. However, Parliament did not
pass the proposed laws. A reduction in contribution rates from 50 percent of gross wages in 1992 to 38
percent in 1996 and the corresponding decline in pension fund revenues have forced the Government to
finance pension expenditures from budgetary transfers which amounted to 2.7 percent of GDP in 1996.
The deterioration in the pension system's financial balance is likely to continue in the absence of
adequate measures. The Government has acknowledged that reform of the pension system is necessary
to put public finances on a sustainable path.
12.   In mid-1996, a Government established Working Group produced a "White Cover" study which
defined the basic conceptual framework for a new multi-pillar pension system. This would include a
mandatory, funded and privately-managed second pillar organized on a defined-contribution basis. The
Government has indicated its support for such a reform and has requested World Bank technical
assistance in designing the transition from the current system and the detailed structure of the second



- 4 -
pillar, including the regulatory framework. The Bank has begun to provide support to the Government in
these areas.
13.   Incomes Policy. In 1993 and 1'994, collective agreements failed to adequately restrain real wage
growth. In response, and in line with agreements under the EFSAL, the Government introduced
restrictive legislation in 1994 which redefined the base for wages and mandated a partial indexation
clause. The law allowed profit-making enterprises to increase wages above the partial indexation rule,
subject to payment of a tax on excessive wages. This law helped to cut real nel wage growth in half, to
7.1 percent in 1994. The Government renewed and tightened the legislation in 1995 by eliminating the
option of profit-making enterprises to pay wages above the partial indexation clause. Real net wage
growth slowed to 5.3 percent in 1995 and 4.2 percent in 1996, in line with the growth of productivity in
both these years.
14.    Enterprise Privatization. The privatization of socially-owned enterprises is nearly completed.
Privatization proceeded slowly until December 1994, when the period for voluntary submission of
privatization applications came to an end. The process then accelerated as the Privatization Agency
acquired broader authority. The second tranche target of privatization of 400 socially-owned enterprises
accounting for 20 percent of the value-added contribution of all enterprises subject to the Law on
Onwership Transformation was met in early 1995. As of February 1997, the Privatization Agency had
approved the privatization plans of 1347 enterprises, accounting for nearly 90 percent of the enterprises
subject to the 1992 Law on Ownership Transformation. Of these, 906 enterprises had completed the
privatization process. In addition, the Development Fund had privatized or divested through liquidation,
most of the original 98 enterprises that had been transferred to it for defensive restructuring and
privatization. The privatization of socially-owned enterprises is likely to be completed by the third
quarter of 1997.
15.    Roughly 26 percent of the capital of privatized enterprises was privatized through internal
buyouts and distribution, 12 percent was sold through public offerings, tenders, and auctions, 17 percent
was bought by private investment funds, 14 percent was transferred to the Restitution and Pension Funds,
and 30 percent is transferred to the Development Fund for future divestiture. At this stage of the
privatization process, workers and management have majority ownership in about two-thirds of the
privatized enterprises. The participation by foreigners in the privatization process has remained modest.
There are some concerns that the lack of ownership concentration and the lack of foreign strategic
investors is slowing progress in enterprise restructuring and the realization of potential efficiency gains.
16.    The Slovene authorities recognize that this is the natural outcome of this first stage of
privatization. They anticipate that a second stage process will begin during which trading in enterprise
shares will result in a more concentrated ownership structure. Limitations are currently in effect
regarding the transfer of ownership: shares bought with vouchers cannot be sold to outsiders for two
years and loan-financed shares are ineligible for trading until the loan is repaid. To facilitate the
concentration of ownership and attract foreign investors, more needs to be done to develop Slovenia's
capital markets and promote direct investment by strategic investors.
17.    Reform  of State-owned Enterprises.  All enterprises in the energy, transportation, water
distribution, telecommunications, and other public service sectors have been converted to joint stock or
limited liability companies with predominant State ownership. The line ministries have appointed
boards of directors for these enterprises and have been effective in driving the ongoing reorganizations of
these sectors.



-5 -
18.   Gross enterprise losses fell from 16.7 percent of GDP in 1992 to 6.2 percent in 1995. Some of
the largest loss makers in 1992 were enterprises in the steel, power and railway sectors. The Government
launched restructuring programs for each of these sectors. The restructuring of the Slovene Railroads
was very successful in terms of reorganization of the enterprises, increase in productivity, lowering of
operating costs, and reduction in the number of employees from 15000 in 1992 to 9900 in 1996. Losses
have been essentially eliminated since 1994 as profits in the cargo traffic business have offset losses in
the passenger traffic business, which still suffers from Government controlled prices. In the energy
sector, the Government has implemented a power pricing policy aimed at bringing prices to 80 percent of
EU levels by 1998 and parity with EU levels by 2000. Losses in the steel sector have not yet been
eliminated, though the sector has been undergoing major restructuring, including a reduction in the labor
force of more than 50 percent.
19.    The EFSAL program envisaged the separation of the regulatory and ownership functions of
State-owned enterprises as well as the development of a strong asset management function in the
Treasury. The establishment of a State Treasury and the transfer of State-owned shares in enterprise to it
have been completed. Nevertheless, until now the line ministries have continued to both regulate and
exercise ownership of enterprises in their respective subsectors. They have argued that they were best
placed to drive the ongoing reorganization of these subsectors and the preparation of the enterprises for
privatization. Although progress has been made in reorganization of public services enterprises, the line
ministries have been less successful in developing an appropriate regulatory framework for the different
subsectors. After two years of discussion and consensus building among different stakeholders, the
Government submitted draft legislation to Parliament in July 1996 which would provide for the
privatization of some of the larger State-owned enterprises. This legislation is still under consideration
by Parliament. The establishment of appropriate regulatory frameworks for enterprises in commercial
public services and the privatization of State-owned enterprises currently providing these services has
become a major priority for the next stage of Slovenia's structural reforms. The Slovene Government is
seeking the Bank's assistance under an IDF grant to accomplish these objectives.
20.   Bank Rehabilitation. The Government's bank restructuring program included two principal
components: the exchange of claims against the NBY with bonds issued by the Republic of Slovenia to
enable the banks to compensate the foreign currency deposits of households frozen by the NBY; and the
rehabilitation of insolvent or seriously undercapitalized banks. Resolution of claims against NBY related
to frozen foreign currency deposits was completed in 1993 and the elimination of the remaining clams
against NBY which backed foreign currency deposits withdrawn prior to 1993 was accomplished in early
1995 following the adoption of a special law for this purpose.
21.   In early 1993 the two largest banks, Ljubljanska Banka (LBdd) and Kreditna Banka Maribor
(KBM) were placed in a formal rehabilitation program under the BRA. In early 1994 a third bank,
Kreditna Banka Nova Gorica, entered into rehabilitation following an unsuccessful attempt at
privatization. This bank was subsequently taken over by KBM. Together these banks accounted for 74
percent and 87 percent of the banking system's exposure to problem loans and doubtful guarantees,
respectively. The rehabilitation process included the: (i) write-off of losses against the banks' existing
capital; (ii) BRA acquisition of the remaining net worth of the banks in exchange for conversion of
previous bank owners' equity shares into subordinated debt of the BRA (thus breaking the ownership
link between enterprises and these banks); (iii) carve-out of the bulk of potential losses from the banks in
exchange for an equivalent amount of BRA bonds guaranteed by the State; and (iv) adoption of
restructuring programs aimed at enabling these banks to achieve a capital adequacy ratio (CAR) of 4
percent and positive operating cash flows, and at strengthening the banks' governance and risk



- 6 -
management policies and systems. The BRA appointed boards of directors for both of the banks under
rehabilitation. The new boards have overseen the adoption of new credit policies and systems.
22.   In July 1994, LBdd and KBM were each separated into a new bank and an old bank. All claims
and liabilities to the former Yugoslavia and all branches in the former Yugoslav republics remained in
the old banks. The new banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka (NLBdd) and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
(NKBM) were thus cleaned of the remaining major outstanding problem assets and liabilities. The next
step in the banks' rehabilitation took place in November 1995 when the original 13RA bonds (which were
30 year DM denominated bonds) were replaced by Tolar denominated bonds wxith shorter and variable
maturities, lower interest rates, and immediate marketability.  This exchange eliminated serious
currency, maturity, and interest mismatches in NLBdd's and NKBM's balance sheets. In June 1996, an
agreement was reached between Slovenia and foreign private creditors regarding debts of the former
Yugoslavia. This has increased the banks' access to international capital markets on favorable terms.
23.    The two banks are liquid and solvent and have demonstrated that they can generate consistent
positive operating cash flow and maintain CAR's above 8 percent. They have improved policies and
procedures in the areas of credit, risk management, financial planning and budgeting, and strategic
planning and have benefited from substantial technical assistance from EU-Plhare, USAID, the U.K.
Know How Fund, and the IFC. These banks are now ready to exit the rehabilitation process.
24.   However, the privatization of these banks has been awaiting the adoption of legislation on the
privatization of State-owned assets discussed above. Consensus seems to heave been built that the
privatizations should follow a rapid and transparent process, should exclude (or miinimize) the use of
privatization vouchers, and should involve strategic investors to strengthen the banks' corporate
governance. Nevertheless, the current draft legislation does not specify core implernentation principles
such as the institution or Government agency which will be charged with carrying out the privatizations
and the desired ultimate ownership structure. The privatization of the State-owned banks is also a
priority for Slovenia's next stage of structural reforms.
25.   BRA and Debt Recovery. In addition to supervising the banks in rehabilitation, the BRA has
been engaged in managing and seeking resolution of the bad assets that were transferred to it. These
assets amounted to about DM 1.1 billion in 102 enterprises. The resolutions involved payments of cash
(14.3 percent of total assets by end-1996), loan rescheduling (5.4 percent of total assets by end-1996),
and debt-equity swaps (12.8 percent of total assets by end-1996). Cash proceeds and the returns on
restructured debt have been used by the BRA to buy back BRA bonds held by the banks under
rehabilitation. At end-1996, the debts of 32 enterprises had been resolved, 12 enterprises had concluded
bankruptcy procedures, and 41 enterprises were under bankruptcy procedures. Only 12 enterprises and
11 percent of the assets originally transferred to BRA remained unresolved at end-1996. Efforts at
resolution of these remaining assets are ongoing.
26.   Banking Sector Legal and Regulatory Framework. Progress in strengthening the legal and
regulatory framework for the banking sector in Slovenia has been much slower than envisaged during the
design of the EFSAL program. Following a protracted period of preparation, the Government submitted
a draft banking law to Parliament in mid-1996. If adopted, this law would imprc)ve prudential standards
to be followed by banks, strengthen the authority of the BoS in bank regulation and supervision, provide
the framework for bank resolutions, and broadly comply with EU directives. The law would facilitate
the opening of branches by foreign banks in Slovenia, by removing the culTent direct capital
requirements for these branches. The draft law is amongst the top priorities on Parliament's legislative
agenda.



- 7 -
27.   The BoS continued to develop and adopt improved banking regulations including more recently
on: capital adequacy, classification of assets and off-balance sheet items, provisioning and interest
suspension, and guidelines for restructuring bad debts. The BoS is prepared to quickly modify the
regulations to ensure consistency with the new banking law, as soon as it is adopted.
28.   Bank Supervision. BoS has reorganized the structure of the supervision department, which now
includes: (i) a unit responsible for the design and implementation of off-site examinations; (ii) unit
responsible for routine fu]ll-scope and targeted on-site examinations; and (iii) a unit responsible bank
licensing. The BoS has adopted a strategic development program which will improve the quality of its
bank supervision, inter alia, by increasing the frequency of on-site inspections from once every two
years to once every 18 months, and support build-up of supervisory skills. Until recently, the BoS has
been able to utilize EU-Phare funds to engage external auditors to support its on-site examinations. As
there are no EU-Phare funds targeted for this purpose for the next two years, the BoS will need to exert
special efforts to attract other sources of support for its bank supervision activities.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
29.   Implementation Record. The EFSAL was designed as a two tranche operation, with a first
tranche of US$35 million, to be released upon effectiveness, and the second tranche of US$40 million,
originally targeted for June 1994. The project also contained a US$5 million technical assistance
component. The loan became effective in November 1993. The Government and the IMF agreed that
there was no need for an IMF program, though consultations with the IMF went on throughout the
implementation of the program.
30.   Since the technical assistance program originally agreed under the EFSAL was substantially
implemented utilizing grant financing from bilateral and multilateral sources (including the IMF, the
U.K. Know-How Fund, EU-Phare, and USAID), the US$4.9 million remaining under the technical
assistance component of the EFSAL was reallocated, at the request of the Government, to the quick
disbursing component of the loan.
31.   The Government did not draw down the funds of the first tranche of the EFSAL until these funds
were needed, in December 1994. The second tranche was relcased on December 20, 1995, eighteen
months after the originally planned date. The Slovene authorities met the conditions for second tranche
release with the exception of the following 5 conditions, which were waived: (i) limiting pension
expenditures to not more than 12.5 percent of GDP in 1994; (ii) submission to Parliament of an energy
sector law; (iii) adoption of new legislation governing the BRA; (iv) adoption of fully satisfactory
banking legislation; and (v) development of a privatization strategy for banks under rehabilitation.
32.   These conditions were waived in light of the overall progress that had been made and the actions
that had been taken towards meeting the objectives of the conditionality: (i) the Government submitted
two draft laws on pension reform in 1994, which were not adopted by Parliament; (ii) a draft energy
sector law was prepared in 1994, but was subsequently withdrawn to align it with EU standards; (iii) the
BRA was able to carry out its functions without recourse to amendment of the existing legislation; (iv)
the Government was well advanced in the preparation of a draft banking law; and (v) the Government
was also advanced in the preparation of a draft law on the privatization of State-owned enterprises,
including banks under rehabilitation. In the months following the waiver, the Government has made
progress in each of these areas. A "White Cover" study on pension reform has been completed and the



- 8 -
Government has begun to work with the Bank in designing this reform. An energy sector law is under
preparation and draft banking and privatization legislation have been submitted to Parliament.
33.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. An important factor affecting the implementation of the
program was the slow pace of legislative reform due to: (i) a conscious choice by the Government to
proceed slowly on elements of the program that involved sensitive political issues in order to have time
to carefully consider all aspects of each course of action in an effort to avoid mistakes, (ii) the lengthy
process of consensus building within the governing coalition, and (iii) the intervening election period and
a long process of deliberation in Parliament. Though some of the legislation has not yet been adopted by
Parliament, the Government's efforts at consensus building have generated a broad public awareness of
the necessity to address issues such as wage growth, pension reform, and privatization of State-owned
enterprises, utilities and banks.
34.   The pace of implementation was also affected by competing priorities vvhich absorbed a large
amount of the time and intellectual resources of the small number of staff in the Government and
resulted in a somewhat slower implementation of the EFSAL program. These other priorities centered
on efforts to more firmly to establish Slovenia's independent identity by assuming its share of
international claims and pursuing Slovenia's further integration into the world economy. Slovenia
reached agreement with the Paris Club in mid-1993 on assuming its share of the debt of the former
Yugoslavia. Bilateral negotiations then ensued with Paris Club members; most these negotiations have
been completed and agreements with several members have now been signed.. Slovenia joined the
GATT in October 1994 and subsequently became a founding member of the World Trade Organization
(WTO). Slovenia joined the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) in June 1995 and the Central
European Free Trade Association (CEFTA) in January 1996. In June 1996, Slovenia signed its EU
association agreement and finalized its agreement with international commercial banks on its share of on
the debt of the former Yugoslavia. As a result of these efforts and the Government's prudent
macroeconomic policies, the three best known international rating agencies have awarded Slovenia the
highest investment grade rating among Central European countries.
D.    Project Sustainability
35.   The achievements of the EFSAL program are sustainable. Although the transformation process
has not yet been completed, a lot of progress has been made in addressing the distorted microeconomic
foundations of the former social-ownership system. Momentum has been built to complete the reform
agenda. While there is some risk that the adoption of necessary banking and privatization legislation will
be further postponed, this would not affect the sustainability of the program, but would rather diminish
efficiency gains and potential growth. The Government is aware of these risks and has placed
completing these and other reforms (such as Social Security and public finance reforms) at the top of its
agenda for the coming period of preparation for accession of Slovenia to the EU.
E.    Bank Performance
36.   The Bank played a key role in the design and first stage of implementation of the EFSAL
program. The intensive interaction betwveen the Bank and the Slovene authorities during this period
benefited from lessons learned during several years of dialogue on reform program design between the
Bank and the Federal Government of the former Yugoslavia and the Government of the then Republic of
Slovenia. The Bank's involvement was less intensive during the second period of implementation of the
program in large part because of the demonstrated capacity of the Slovene Government to implement the
program independently. The areas in which Bank expertise was particularly utilized include the main



- 9 -
elements of banking sector reiorm such as the restructuring of BRA bonds, the preparation of the draft
banking law, and the development of the strategic program for bank supervision. The supervision of the
EFSAL by Bank staff was undertaken in close conjunction with the preparation of the Investment
Recovery Project (IRP) which was approved by the Board in July 1996. This project complements the
EFSAL in the enterprise sector by helping to provide long-term finance for investment and restructuring,
and in the banking sector by consolidating the restructuring actions and institutional development of the
three borrowing banks. The Bank's current cooperation with the Government on pension reform is also
grounded in the initial dialogue carried out during preparation and implementation of the EFSAL.
F.    Borrower Performance
37.   Preparation. Borrower performance during the design and preparation of the EFSAL program
was highly satisfactory.  The Government, in a collaborative effort with the Bank, designed a
comprehensive and consistent medium-term reform program which accurately identified the most crucial
reforms needed for the economic transition.
38.   Implementation. The Slovene authorities demonstrated a remarkable capacity to implement the
EFSAL program on their own. The implementation of the program was very capably carried out by a
variety of Slovene institutions and agencies including the MOF, the BoS, the Privatization Agency,
various line ministries, the Development Fund, and the BRA. The high degree of technical expertise,
professionalism, and commitment of the Slovene authorities contributed to an high caliber dialogue with
the Bank during the implementation of the program. The Slovene authorities also benefited from
targeted technical assistance especially in bank restructuring and banking supervision.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
39.   The overall rating of the project is satisfactory.  Slovenia has made good progress in
transforming its economy to a market-based system.  Growth has been achieved in a stable
macroeconomic environment and in conjunction with considerable microeconomic reforms. As a result
of the privatization of socially-owned enterprises, which is nearly completed, and the entry of new
private enterprise, the private sector is now estimated to make up about 50 percent of GDP. The
Parliament has adopted key legislation to promote private sector development including: (i) a Company
Law based on the German model, (ii) a bankruptcy law which introduces Chapter 11 style
reorganization, (iii) a law on the securities markets, (iv) a law on mutual and investment funds, (v) a
competition law, (vi) a patent law, (vii) a law on accounting, and (viii) a law on foreign investment
which allows for 100 percent foreign ownership of enterprises. The Slovene banking sector has
undergone profound restructuring in the past 4 years. The financial position of the banking system has
improved as profits and the percentage of high quality loans are rising, non-performing loans are being
adequately provisioned, and net foreign currency exposure and maturity mismatches have been reduced.
40.   The program was implemented over a longer period than had been originally anticipated, in large
part because of slow pace of legislative reform  in Slovenia.  Also, despite the very substantial
achievements of the program, the banking system is still characterized by a lack of dynamism caused in
large part by a low level of competition, about 40 percent of banking sector assets remain under State
control, important links remain between smaller banks and the enterprises that used to fully own them,
and competition in the provision of public services and FDI in Slovenia remain low. The privatization of
the State-owned banks, mergers of several smaller banks, and the adoption of the new banking law which
will remove deterrents to foreign branch banking would lead to increased competition in the banking
sector, decreased market segmentation, an increase in lending as a percentage of total assets, and an



- 10-
increase in medium and long-term credit. Completion of the second stage of the enterprise privatization
process and the establishment of appropriate regulatory frameworks for public services enterprises will
increase the efficiency of the enterprise sector and help attract further FDI. The achievement of
sustainable long-run growth will depend on final adoption of the pending key legislation on banking and
privatization of State-owvned enterprises and on Slovenia's ability to complete the privatization of the
banks and enterprises, to push ahead with comprehensive reform of the pension and health systems, and
to accelerate development of the domestic capital markets.  Reinvigoration and completion of this
reform agenda will ease Slovenia's integration into the EU.
H.    Future Operations
41.   A new CAS for Slovenia is being finalized and has recently been discussed with the
Government. The CAS will support an assistance program of the Bank group for Slovenia structured
around the four key development objectives pursued by the Government as part of its EU pre-accession
strategy: completing the systemic transformation of the economy; restructuring and strengthening the
management of public finance; ensuring social sustainability; and achieving environmentally sustainable
growth. The program will be delivered through a mix of technical assistance and highly selective
investment projects. Among its major elements will be supporting the second wave of privatization of
the major public services enterprises and establishing the regulatory framework for these activities; and
supporting reform of the social security system, particularly pension reform.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
42.    Some of the main lessons that can be drawn from the experience of preparing and implementing
the EFSAL are summarized below:
a) Comprehensiveness of Program Design. The EFSAL was designed as a comprehensive
reform package addressing interrelated macroeconomic, enterprise, and banking sector
problems within a single consistent framework. Concerns were raised during the preparation
and implementation of the EFSAL regarding the broad scope of the program. However,
experience has shown in Slovenia as well as in other transition countries that consistency and
coherence of macroeconomic, enterprise, and banking sector reforms are essential for the
success in achieving the reform objectives. This was particularly relevant in Slovenia
because the EFSAL program was the first comprehensive medium-term program for
economic transformnation following independence. The scope of the program and some of its
main elements such as bank restructuring was replicated in subsequent programs in the other
countries in the region.
b) Ambitious Time-frame. Any program of major adjustments of the enterprise and banking
sectors addresses the core foundation of the economic system. It should therefore be
expected that such reforms generate wide-ranging debate on policy, institutional, and
legislative issues. This was particularly true in the case of Slovenia, a newly independent
country which was building its democratic institutions, its public aLdministration, and in
which there has been a tradition of consensus building. During preparation of the EFSAL,
the time required to develop such a consensus and to subsequently adopt the required
legislation was underestimated by the Government and the Bank. This led to an overly
ambitious expected time-frame for meeting the second tranche release targets.



- 11 -
c) The Creation of Specialized Institutions.  One of the challenges in designing and
implementing systemic reforms is to build the capacities to effectively manage the process.
Another challenge is to benefit from the skills acquired in this process but at the same time
ensure that special institutions charged with specific transformation tasks are phased out
once their mission is accomplished. At the onset of the reforms, the Slovene authorities
established institutions with clear mandates, including the Privatization Agency and the
BRA.   These institutions were professionally staffed and fulfilled their mandates
satisfactorily. The Government is now preparing to wrap up the operations of the two
agencies. The two agencies have staff that are highly experienced and who can contribute to
further development efforts both in the public and private sectors. This has been a successful
experience in building and evolving transitional public institutions, which other transition
countries in the region can usefully emulate.



- 12-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial        Neglhib ai     Not applicable
Macro Policies                                    El 0]                             O
Sector Policies                   E                               El               E
Financial Objectives              X                J              E]               El
Institutional Development          X              E               El               Cl
Physical Objectives               E               a               E                l3
Poverty Reduction                                                 El               I 7I
Gender Issues                      :i               l             E 
Other Social Objectives                            :              El 0i
Environmental Objectives          [l              []              EI 
Public Sector Management          I]             [3               El               C1
Private Sector Development                                        E                III
Other (specify)                   E               E               El               E
(Continuea)



- 13 -
B. Project Sustainability            L ikely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                       (1)                       (./)
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (/)                       (/)
Identification                      ix                                                 L 
Preparation Assistance                                      ii                         LI
Appraisal                           l                        a                         L
Supervision                           I                      x                        L
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory             Satisfactoy                 Deficient
(/)                      (/)                      (vi)
Preparation                         ix                       a                         a
Implementation                                              Su li
Covenant Compliance                LI                                                  LI
Operation (if applicable)           n                        O=
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(l                                LI              LI



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title        Purpose           Year of approval           Status
Following operations
1. Investment Recovery  Provide long-term   1996                  Approved by Board, not
Project               credit to promote a                         yet effective.
private sector-led
recovery of investment
and growth*.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                     6/8/1992
Preparation                                                     1 13/1992
Appraisal                                                      4/5/1993
Negotiations                                6/1411993          6/7/1993
Letter of Development Policy                                   6/17/19>93
Board Presentation                          8/3/1993           7/15/1993
Signing                                                        8/16/1993
Effectiveness                               9/1/1993           11/19/1993
First Tranche Release                       9/1/1993            12/31/1994
Second Tranche Release                      6/30/1994           12/20/1995
Project Completion                                             2/311997
Loan Closing                                12/31/1995          12/31/1995



- 15-
Table 4: Loain Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY94   FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate                 36.66     41.67          1.67
Actual                              0.00     35.10        44.90
Actual as % of estimate             0.00      84.23    2688.62
Date of final disbursement                             12/20/95
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                                      Actual
1. Conditions for Second Tranche Release and Key Implementation Indicators (identified by *)
1. Adoption of Supportive     Adoption of 1994 budget limiting the general budget  Budget was virtually balanced while
Fiscal Policies               deficit to at most 2% of GDP, providing overall support   providing adequate fiscal support to the
to the reforms of at least 5.4% of GDP, and containing  reforms. Fiscal support to Bank
minimumn support to the key reform activities including:    Restructuring was 0.8 percent of GDP
Bank Restructuring--2.3% of GDP; Enterprise          which proved adequate especially
Restructuring--0.9% of GDP; and Social Safety Net--  following the restructuring of the BRA
2.2% of GDP.                                         bonds.
Adoption of 1994 budget reducing general expenditures    Revenues did decline by 1% of GDP in
and revenues by at least 1% of GDP.                  1994 but have not declined in 1995 and
1996. Expenditures declined by 0.4% of
* Adoption of 1994 budget memorandum indicating the   GDP in 1994 and by another 0.4% of
necessary medium-run fiscal support to the reforms.  GDP by 1996. The budget has remained
This should include a reduction in the general budget  virtually balanced in 1995 and 1996.
deficit to 1.5% of GDP in 1995, and a further reduction
in the share of general expenditures and revenues to GDP
in 1995 and the following years.
2. Pension Reform             Adoption of measures to limit the ratio of pension   Pension expenditures increased to 13.4%
expenditures to GDP to at most 12.5% of GDP in 1994.    of GDP in 1994 and continued to rise to
13.6% of GDP in 1996. This conditioned
was waived.
Presentat:ion of detailed assessment of the impact of the    The Government identified changes in
measures adopted in 1993 and in 1994 on pension      the indexation rule and an increase in the
expenditares in 1994. Identification (if necessary) of  assessment period which, if adopted,
changes in indexation rules or alternative measures  would have reduced pension
required to reduce pension expenditures to the 1994  expenditure.
target.
Submission to Parliament of revised pension legislation    The Government submitted, but
which would: (i) increase the retirement age by one year.  Parliament did not approve, draft laws
each year; (ii) increase the retirement age of women so as  which would have increased the
to reduce the difference to that of men from 5 to 3 years;   assessment period and changed
(iii) increase the assessment period for the calculation of   indexation rules. The Government did
the pension base from the 10 best years to the 20 best  not submit legislation to increase the
years.                                               retirement age.



- 16 -
* Presentation of a revenue-neutral plan to shift non-  There has been some progress in shifting
earnings related expenditures from the pension fund to  non-earnings related expenditure to the
the central budget in 1995.                          centrall budget.
Completion of study designed to guide a comprehensive    The Government has confirmed its
pension reform, including the identification of measures   intention to pursue comprehensive
needed for the introduction of a two-tier pension system.   pension reform based on the
recomimendations of an EU-Phare
financed study which calls for the
establishment of a multi-pillar system
with a. fully funded second pillar.
3. Adoption of Supportive     Maintenance and satisfactory implementation of the   Collective agreements failed to restrain
Incomes Policies              wage policy for the economic and non-economic sectors,  real wage growth and, as agreed, the
if necessary, through adoption of new legislation.   Government introduced restrictive
legislation in 1994 and 1995. This
legislation achieved some success in
restraining wage growth, as real wages
have grown roughly in line with
productivity.
4. Overall Macroeconomic      Satisfactory compliance with the macroeconomic       This condition has been met.
Performance                   framework.
5. Privatization/Restructuring    Privatization of 400 socially-owned enterprises,  This condition was met in mid-1 995.
accounting for 20% of the value added contribution of all
enterprises subject to the Law on Ownership
Transformation. [Privatization of the enterprises
currently owned by the Development Fund will
contribute to achievement of this target.]
6. Reform of State-owned      Conversion into State-owned enterprises all socially-  This condition was met in mid-1995.
Enterprises                   owned enterprises in the following commercial public
service subsectors: energy; railways; roads; sea and
airports; telecommunication; postal services; and water
distribution and other municipal public services.
Submission to Parliament of specific laws for the energy,  The law for organization and regulatory
telecommunication, and railway subsectors which would,  framework for railways was adopted in
inter-alia, govern the organization and define the   Decemiber 1 993. A law on the Post
regulatory framework for these subsectors, and specify  Office was adopted in 1994 and divided
those activities which will be privatized in the medium-    the telecommunications and postal
term.                                                operations. A law which provides the
framework for privatization of State-
owned assets is still under consideration
by Parliament. The condition related to
submission of an energy sector law was
waived.
Establishment of an appropriate governance structure,  Line ministries appointed boards of
including designation of boards of directors for State-  directors for State-owned enterprises and
owned enterprises and continued strengthening of the  have been developing regulatory
Treasury function.                                   frameworks for their respective sectors.
The governance function has not been
assigned to Treasury.
7. Program for Loss-making    Implementation of the steel subsector restructuring  The steel sector has been undergoing
Enterprises                   program, adjusted as necessary, to stem losses in the  major restructuring, though losses have
steel subsector.                                     not yet been completely eliminated.



- 17-
Implementation of the price adjustment plan, including  The Government adopted a price
further adljustments as necessary, and finalization of  adjustment plan and is on track to meet
proposals for future regulation of power prices.   its targets of 80% of EU levels by 1998
and parity by 2000.
Complet:ion of the development and progress in the  This condition has been met.
implementation of this program.
8. Bank Restructuring Program   Introduclion by the BoS of rehabilitation procedures for   Three banks entered the rehabilitation
any bank in the system with a CAR of less than half the    process. With the merger of KBMdd and
minimum required.                                  KNGdd, only two banks remain in the
process which has been very successful.
The two banks should exit the
rehabilitation process in the coming
months.
Achievernent of at least the target 4% CAR, confirmed  This condition has been met.
through satisfactory external audits, and positive
operating cash flow for LBdd, KBM, and KBNG in
accordance with the new BoS regulations. Adjustment
of the mechanisms necessary to achieve the above cash
flow and CAR. Adoption and achievement of
satisfactory progress in the implementation by each bank
under rehabilitation of institutional development
programs which strengthen their credit and financial risk
management processes, and their systems of control and
infonnation.
Reorganization of the LB System. Achievement of a  Following the reorganization of the LB
banking structure under which no institution will hold  system, NLBdd has held 25 to 30 percent
more than 40% of the system's total deposits.      of the banking system's total deposits.
Implementation and updating, as necessary, of BRA's  This condition has been met.
operating and multi-year financing plans to support bank
restructuring.
Appointment by BRA of a Board in each bank under   This condition has been met.
rehabilitation. Approval by bank boards of performance
indicators and targets for the recovery of each bank.
Revision, if necessary, of the terms of the bonds assigned   The structure and non-marketability of
to the banks to facilitate repayment of deposits.  these bonds did not create liquidity
Approval by MOF of trading of bonds among banks,   shortages in the banks.
under conditions set by BoS.
9. Debt Recovery             Restructuring or other appropriate resolution for at least   This condition has been met.
one third of the debtors and one third of the debts
carved-out from the banks.
* Statement from external auditors on the financial  The BRA has implemented acceptable
condition of any entity charged with responsibility for  guidelines for debt recovery.
managing the carved-out assets.
* Statement from external auditors confirming
compliance with Board established policies for debt
recovery.
* Confirnation by external auditors that credit renewal,   The BoS has been assuring compliance
extension, and restructuring for adversely classified  with the guidelines for adversely
borrowers has been in compliance with the guidelines  classified borrowers.



-18-
issued by BoS, and by policies adopted by the banks.
10. Legal and Regulatory     Adoption by Parliament of amendments to the Banking    Amendments were passed by Parliament
Framework                    law, which: update minimum entry capital; enhance bank   but did not adequately deal with several
governance; extend lending limits to groups of related  important issues including: related
borrowers; specify individual maximum investment   lending, bank governance, and the
limits; reduce the aggregate limit for fixed assets and  powers of the BoS as supervisors. It was
stocks to 60% of each bank's capital; increase minimum    agreed that these shortcomings would be
capital adequacy to 8% by enid 1995; and, empower BoS   addressed in the new banking law. This
to set compulsory regulatory accounting practices and  law has been submitted to Parliament,
external audit requirements.                       but has not yet been adopted. The
condition was waived.
Adaptation by the BOS of regulations to conform to the    The BoS has made progress in enhancing
amended banking law.                               banking. regulations on the basis of the
adopted amendments. The BoS has also
developed a detailed timetable for
preparation and adoption of regulations
consistent the forthcoming banking law.
Adoption by Parliament of amendments to the bank   The adopted amendments eliminate the
rehabilitation law which: eliminate the maximum limit    1% maximum limit. The new banking
of 1% on the share of any individual bank shareholder to  law will include detailed policy
facilitate bank governance and privatization; and  guidelines that will establish the
authorize BoS to provide temporary operational liquidity  framework that will be used by the BoS
support to BRA.                                    in dealing with bank resolutions.
Adoption of new legislation governing BRA reflecting  The BRA has operated on the basis of a
its expanded role and responsibilities.            MOF decree and has been able to carry
out its expanded roles and responsibility
without recourse to amendment of the
legislation. This conditioned was
waived.
A Application by all banks of the new rules for the  This indicator has been achieved.
closure of 1993 accounts.
* Adoption by BoS of new capital adequacy regulation,   This indicator has been achieved.
in compliance with the agreed amendments to the
banking law, to ensure compatibility with the BIS
standards, using higher weights for risks and
substantially discounting revaluation reserves for fixed
assets and investments.
I1. Bank Supervision         * Progress in implementing the plan adopted by the  Progress has been made in developing
Board of the BoS to enhance bank supervisory       the BoS' supervisory capabilities.
capabilities, including time-bound targets for
implementation the main components of the plan.
12. Bank Privatization       Privatization at least of one bank and development of the   Many banks have become privately
core elements of a privatization strategy for banks under   owned, following the privatization of the
rehabilitation.                                    enterprises owning them. The second
largest bank, SKB dd, is majority private
(and foreign) owned. The Government
intends to privatize the banks under
rehabilitation, but the privatization
strategy cannot be elaborated until
legislation on the privatization of State-
owned assets is adopted.



- 19-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                               Purpose as defined at    Status        Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Reform of the Pension and    Initiate action for medium-term   Completed,   Helping to build
Disability Insurance Scheme     reform of the pension system.   though with   consensus to
EU-Phare    reform the pension
financing.    system.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
Total                               0       80       80           0        80       80
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
Total                               0       80       80           0        80       80
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Slovenia
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Covenant  Present  Original  Revised                Descriptiion of Covenant
Agreement   Section      Type       Status    Fulfill-  Fulfill-
ment    ment
Date     Date
Loan         3.01(a)        9.        C                         The Borrower and the B3ank shall from time to time, at
Agreement                                                       the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Loan         3.01(b)        9.        C                         Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
Agreement                                                       shall furnish to the Bank. for its review and comment a
export on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
Loan         3.02           3.        C                         Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Agreement                                                       procurement of the goocls and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Loan         3.03(a)        1.        C                         The Borrower shall: (i) carry out under terms of
Agreement                                                       reference satisfactory to the Bank such studies,
programs and training activities which, in the opinion
of the Borrower and he B3ank, are required for the
successful and timely execution of the Program;
Loan         3.03(b.)       I.        C                         (ii) upon the completion of each of such studies,
Agreement                                                       programs and activities, furnish to the Bank a report
(of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request) on their results and allow the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to cornment thereon;
Loan         3.03(c)        1.        C                         (iii)ensure the availability, as needed, of the funds,
Agreement                                                       facilities, services and other resources required for the
carrying out of the studies, activities and programs
referred to in this Section.
Loan         3.04(a)        1.        C                         The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Agreement                                                       maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Loan         3.04(b)(i)     I.        C                         The Borrower Shall: (i) have the records and
Agreement                                                       accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
including those for the Special account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;,
Loan         3.04(b)(ii)    1.        C                         (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
Agreement                                                       any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
Loan         3.04(b)(iii)    I.       C                         (iii)furnish to the Bank such other information
Agreement                                                       concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Loan         3.04(c)(i)     1.        C                         For all expenditures with respect to which
Agreement                                                       withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:



- 21 -
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Loan         3.04(c)(ii)    1.         C                         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
Agreement                                                        received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Loan         3.04(c)(iii)   I.         C                         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine
Agreement                                                        such records; and
Loan         3.04(c)(iv)  1.       C                             (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
Agreement                                                        included in the annual audits referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Covenant types:                                                                               Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                8. = Indigenous people                   C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered    CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds             by categories 1-9                      NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing    or other resource allocation
agency                                           12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                           regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                       13. = Other



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal    91.7     288.5
Appraisal                   23.0      70.5
Negotiations through Board    23.3    68.1
approval
Supervision                 44.2      168.2
Completion                  9.0       27.0
Total               191.2    622.3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performn.mce Ratin2    Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.  nPls3
Year   Persons  Field                     status      objectives
Identification      6/1992     8      61     E, F, Industry,
Lawyer
Pre-Appraisal      11/1992    9       82     E, F, Industry
Appraisal         4/1993     9      90      E, F, Industry
Supervision (1)     4/1994     4       28     E, F, Industry                    2          P
Supervision (2)     7/1995     5       30     E, F, Industry                    I          P
Completion         1/1997     3       15         E,F
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E = Economist                     I = Minor Problems                 F = Financial
F = Financial Analyst             2 = Moderate Problems              T = Technical
3 = Major Problems                M = Managerial
P = Policy






IMAGING
Report No.:           16631
Tvne-      ICR



