The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot N.. P-609-SLO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTM   LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$80 MLLON
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SLVENIA
June 22,1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 6079-SLO   Type: (PR)
Title: ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTO
Author: ZURAYK, ILHAM
Ext.:32582 Room:H11111 Dept.:EC2CO
Thi document has a restricted disibution an may be usd by reipies only in te performnce of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otwise be disclsed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Slovene Tolar (Sll)
Jan        Feb         Mar          Apr
122        121993                  123          1229
US$1.00=                  81.3        99.1        101.3       103.0        105.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOS      -    Bank of Slovenia
BRA      -    Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAR      -    Capital Adequacy Ratio
DM       -    Deutsche Mark
EBRD    -    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC       -    European Community
EPSAL   -    Enterprise and Finmcial Sector Adjustment Loan
EFTA    -    European Free Trade Association
FDI      -    Foreign Direct Investment
GDP      -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
IMF            ntnational  Monetary Fund
LBdd    -    Ljubljanska Banka dd
KBM      -    Kreditna Banka Maribor
KBNG   -    Kreditna Banka Nova Gorica
LBS      -    Ljubljanska Banka System
MOEA           Ministry of Economic Activities
MOP    -    Ministry of Finance
MOL    -    Ministry of Labor, Famfly and Social Affairs
NBY      -    National Bank of Yugoslavia
PHARE  -    Poland Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
SDK      -    Social Accounting Service
TA       -    Technical Assistance
SLOVENIA-FISCAL YEAR
Jamuary 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
RWfJEUC OF SLAWWM
EITIPRUESM AND MANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowe             Republic of Sovnla
Amount:             US$80 milion equvlt
TM.0:               15 yeas, including 5 yeas of gmae, at the Banks stndard vaitae Inte rate.
DeaipI.             The principal objeiv of the proposed lon i fo prie tmely nd rponsive
support to Slovenas  bft t Implement effctive reorm of Its enrprs and
finaca  sectors.  Ih  low  will filitat  enteni   pdvazaton and
reruc, and accerate the deveopment of a stOMg and supporte finanal
sector. The loan wll have a poliy component and a tochicl o
0CpODUL
The P      Cooem (US$75 mMion) wll support the Govemet's oveal
economic rfom  program  indudiu    (a) pivatzao  of scialy-owned
ente     , reform of ownerhip md governance of dstwned eneprs,
hmpi          of programs to stem enterprse losses, and pra  sactr
devlomen; b)bank retutrn,of the regulaory framework
r bankin, and bank p dvaain and (c) labor maret adjustme  and
slrir4 of the sodal saty net
The Tedea An&tc CoaoxW (US$5 million) wil provid fi ng for
long-term adi, short-tom             and taining In core areas esa  fr
socues-Od      atation of the Govenmens refm  progam.
and Risk:           P dvaizatn of socily-owed ene pre and de elopme  of die private sector,
effetive goverance and reglation of a simmed down State-ownd enterprse
seco, curtaimt of enterpie loiss and resoutonof bank portfolio poUems,
and establishment of a competve, sound, and sablbaiDg sector, wil enbl
Slovens to make an ffectiv  and rapid trst  tD  a madret econMY and pave
the wayr   _      long-ru ec lnoc growt h
The man rik asciated with the program relat to the polti  ad socil
fcors whkh may cams  pial or dow  adjustmet of he necessay
l _ :n -na-mi policies and          am_aly    _ dF I  of the re8om.
However, he  sCCaM  inplo                                  thO recent
adopton of mjor puh%vazon and bak  trucuring legsaion, ae to
determL_adon of the Slovee people to press aead  ih ihde rem. Thre I
This document has a msicd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the prbfrm§nc.
of thei offlcial duties. Its contents may not othewise be d_slod without Word Bank authodzatin.



a istk that pop    support can be eroded as h social cs of ths
kmc  doing the course of th reforms.  his sk seems to be monagebe,
gW  ivnte expected short duration of the adjsmen period, and fth social safety
net ta Sltosnla has aready in pla.   oW toh nic a
the lo   wil hep reduce the ik of deay In ImI  nthi    enomic
US$75 million of th loan would be quick dibursin and woudd be dissd in
two tranches: US$35 molln upo Ia effectiven, which b expected in
Septmber 1993; and US$40 millin upon raliaon of secod ttanche
ndiion, epected In mid-1994. The remaig proceeds of the loan (USss
miion) would be used for technical     requred for rewms sppored
by the EPSAL and would be disused in about 24 months.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
AND FINANCIAL SECTOR AWJUSflWENTLOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PCROGRAMStMBLARY .........................................  i
L hitrducdon  . ...............................................    1
IL Eomm  Fmnwork nd Asistan wy  .............................   I
A.    Bakmn  nd Recent D.v.opments...........................   1
S.    Panddie ExtmE                 omet ....................................*...    7
C.    Eemes of theBanks Country A..s....Strat eg.........               .......  12
IIL "MmeEnenbsandBankng Secom  .. ..........                 ........................  16
A..       e Current Strcture of tie Enei  Sector ....... ...................  16
B.    S  dcturoftheBanking Sector ...............................  17
C.    Issm   In *e Enterrie and Bankig Sects   ...         ....................  18
IV. Mm Adjusm andRefom Propm  ......................................  22
A.    ITb.. Ics Fmework ......................... . ..                       ...  22
D.    EnatepisSctoRd=n  ...................................  28
C.  BankIngSectorRdonm ..................... 32
D.    Labor Mari _Adstmet ndtheSocidSafety Net .               ................. .  39
E.    PoIcand SocIa1'lasiblIy  ....................................  40
V. IMm 'posedLoan  .............................................  42
A.    LounAmountandBorowr ..................                        .. ......  42
B.    Loa Dsign  d CompwMnsf  ....................................  42
C.    MonitorinSgAnams             ........   .. ............              * ....  43
E.  PLocugsuo dm btCheAnr4ps..B .................. 43
F.    AccountsandAudits ......................................  45
F.     EnIruonmenud       _          .. .....           ....     ............. 4.
EL     RBesof  Funds .........................and T....g                            45



Tave OfCM=(COW&)
xV i   -  .-       *...............  .......                                .... . 46
ANNKEXEs
Anne 1: Stacad Tables
Ane 2: LAe of Dewdopmat Policy
Annex 3: Mar of Key Actons
Anu 4: Tencal Asit    Pogram
Annx 5: Sppl y  Project Dat Sheet
Anmn  6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Slovena



Repoit and                 nof theF Pte_de  ofthe
iternaonal Bank for eo               and Development
to the Eeuve Diectors
on a Phopoed Enterprie and Fluada Sector
to the Republi of Sovua
I. Introduction
1.    I smt the flloowig rept and              on a proposed Enterpise ad Finac  Sector
Adjutmet  oAn  (EFSAL) to t  Reumblic of Slovenla in support of a com  ve program of
enterpris od fnand  sector refrms. Te loawll w a bv a term of 15 years, icluding S yes of
grc, at the Banks sndad variable Interest ra and wi be disbused in two tranches of US$35 milion
and US$40 mllon. To ensurew ucessAl   mpi   on of the program supportedby the Bak *eloan
wil do pvd  US$5 min In teical assistan  which will be disbed in about 24 months.
Sectlo  11 below pres    the strategic firmework wihin whch th World Bank group proposes to
organe coopxaion with Sloveoia. Slovenla Is a new member and a country whic is expected to
gaduat the n   rft. A comlet Country Asstce Se  (CAS) is, thefore, ntropriate,
alhouh Secton 11 does cota met elemes wn     y preet  in a CAS.
IL Economic Frwework and Asistance Strategy
A.               a d Rn ut Deopmao
Poiuic Backgowid
2.   TIo Republic of Slv"a Is one of the yoget soveign ates in Cental E pe. Slovena
was an           countw y in  e 6th cetuy. It was susequety incored Io te Frakish
Empire ad latho In  the Wabsbur Empir  I 1918, it joined Croa   and Serbia to form the Kingdom
of Sers, Crmas, ad Slo   . Afer WWII, Sloveaa becam  one of te sik repbUcs whih fomed
the formr Soiast Federa Reublic of Yugosaviia. Thoghouthe centuies, Slovena kept its own
langue and cutr and bl, in fc a qut h           popuaon in cona to most other successor
Stas Of Yugosavi
3.     he fist fr  dectios in Slovea wer held in Apri 1990. Subsequnly, In a refereidm hed
In December 1990, e owheV    morit of the Sloven poulation oed n favr of Idendence.
Iho dedaraion of hidpend_e= by Slovaia, on June 25, 1991, trggered a war between the Yugopa
Army ad the Slov  defense forc, but thb confoli was rapidly halted by an EC-brketred agremen
(1he Bdo  raty) which led to te wihrawal of the Yugopav trops and the tmporary sof
Slovals             . As no  wbs e prgre  was acieved in reahig new an            n,
SkmankneftirmedifaIs          on Octoe 5, 1991. Slona was recognzd by the EC In Jamnuy
1992, and bece a member of the United Nation in May 1992.



2
4.    Untl recnly, lgIatIve power tn SloveIa   esho   by  re chambes hi the Parlamen
However, as per the provisions of the ne w    of the Repuic adopted in December 1991, a new
two dcaber Parlame  was establihed, 1owinS the December 6,1992 elections. Frm Ap  1990
to Apri 1992, th Slove Gwv       r_aresented a ceor-rg  coaliio of seve  pdes. A center-
left coalon took offio In Ap  1992. Followingds teec  dection, anow Gov    was confimed
on Januay 25, 1993.   IGos      re resents a broad coaliton of the thee mjor parties and has
a sog centi orieation
Ecmonontic&cwd
5.    Slovenla has a population of about 2 miiHon, and an economy w    has trdiionaly ompared
faby with tha of mot or economies hI Centa and Este  Europ. Slovenla's ro  domestc
proct (GDP) per capita i estmatd at about USS5,700 In 1992. 'ne Slovene economy is very open
by Inrna      stoanl s and i heily concenatd In inustry and sevces, as indicatd by the high
saes of these two seors In GDP (33% and 62%, respevely). In rece  years, totaler  trade
(ecuding fom  Yugosavia) mounted to about US$10 billion, equart to about 8S  of Slovenl's
GDP, with eports about 45% of GDP and imports about 40% of GDP. In I19  about 85% of exernal
trade was conuted with deovoped countries (BC 67%, EFTA 12%, and others 6%). Toad wI& to
frm    YtgcvLa has drpped shrly, althoug in 1992 It stil munted to US$2.7 billion, eqiat
to 23% of Slovens GDP. Being a smal and very open economy, Slovea is very vlnoe  to
advr  extera oondio. Howevr, Sloveas export are quie divefied In term  of their product
6.    Alh         Slova aways ejoed the highest   dds of ling among the forme Yugosrv
republics, is economic pwftmme ddwbmted dramaically with the rest of Yugoslvia dnthe d
1980s, a indicated by very high inflat     stand tof onomic actvity. nh  causes of such poor
cshrmmw date fm the 196b and w    rooted Il the stuctr wm        of the old Yugosv system
Of enteprie s fn ment with    prva  ownrip and well-functioning factor mats. This
sstm attributed ownerhip to socely at lrge, but enusted wodres with the rsosibility of utg
enterps aets. n the absence of a owner intred in the lon-run viability of the enrie, soci
-        resulted hi excesiv wag presur  and caess evauaton of investmet projes. Man
tpi  sted t gent loes during tho 191M. Tbis and ohr serious deficiencies of the system,
hInluding the incraing tenions b e self_          of eaterrsw and moe centrlzd poll&
control over mnaj" decsion, we  masd for seval ya  by sizble volumes of Inestmet finane
by largoi  borowin. In th 198M, he deicie                becme visible with th eruption of the
LDC debt cids and the scarciy of foxeig finnig.
7.    Yugolavia Implemed sev   stabizadon pror    In hi  1980s which were succel In
generang Inrasing cnt accown tsurus  *(I good part as a result of laW real de    ), but
did not reduce  ftio and       growth as tey fed to solv the fiudamenta problems of the
ecnomy. Ihe      n         probles were not due to general Govemet deficits (the genel
Governm  actally eorded sma suues twough the 1980s), but were caused by persistent and
widsprd imbances stmmig firom the enepise secto. Enises generated mo  losses during
ti period, and tuned fr supor to the dometc finani sysen  The bak, whh wooewd ad
controle by th e  met thdr boasmed dmad fot swbdizeA ctedts, A* were   y
suppted by  bidzd riscouni from the atonal Bnk of Iugosia MBY). NBY also absod
the costs raed to te foren curency deposits ad ohr for   Hliabiities of domestc baks, in order



3
to proct th bank from en grea  financial difficulties. Theso       evontuay resulted tn a
large NY quasi-fiscl defic, loss of monetary control, and ncaing nati
S.    Yugolavis last ampt to stabilize nd reure ts economy was undet    by the Mavic
GOVenmeNt In 1990. Tho 1990 staIatOn progrm was th   frs ro gth        d Zo diMiate tho
_mb=am  gat the level of the         and the ban, and was able to reduce In=ation Ialy.
ower, h  lauccs of the program  tId fisca and political supptto  a dege tat could
not be achieved under the Yugouav Pedeation. The growing presswes on ent ai   ban;   reltesod
In Iasig political             and led republis to cuxmven fedea  actions and direcve.
9.    Ihe progrsivo dissluto of the Yugodav Federation in 1991 was accompanied by a marked
deteiorato of the    oe c permance of all republics. The resl of the republics to contnu
to finance the Fede  Gove    led to a lare  deral deficit, open recou  to monety fincing,
and a srog accelerationof fla      The volum  of trade amng the republs fell Abuty, leadi
to an overal contraction of outpu  NBYs refusal to keep delvar  Dinr banknotes to the repuics
caused   tA    bottonk and furte dirupton in econmic actvity. Slovea ww pa ylculy
affected by these advrso develope, a its idustries sold a large shar of thir ouWut in Yugos
makets, and also depended on inpute from th other rWeblcs for dhir epts to the rest of the word.
Mhe regions polticl Instalty aso had a negaive upact on Sovenas reveues om  oursm and
fight sei. Thes fictors ted  In a 9% drsp of Sloveas GDP in the year of its poliia
Ecoisoni Perfonwace 4Jtr Ndpdec
10.   Dpitavey aderemernal vioment, Slovenahas madepwo a ibio                         g
m       CI!    8   8hutdnee 0 hA nw curncy-t4   Slovoe Tolar-lntroduced on Octer
8,1991, alowed Slovena to estbi  monetay conal and implemn a stablation progam  aimed at
reducing the high ras of inflation ad Iaing the crcally low level of forein  reseres
(Yugosla  fi  resvm s werbept by NBY afer iennce).  h pgm  included a shp
ra d bealtn of th exan  rats (folowed by a manged ft) and a vey  ht mnetary policy,
epecayI inital8  pbas (Fi     1). Th program was lo spored by coninuin geneaon of
smal gera G       men surpluses (2.6% and 0.4% of GDP In 1991 and 1992) and restictons on
nomil wages in Is niial p . It aeved condaeble  success in reducing nLadon.: from an averg
monthly rate of 18% i te last qr  of 1991, to 12%, 6%, 2% and 2% in the four quarts of 1992,
respectvey. Inltion has ben beow 2% per month sco anuay 1993 (F          1).
11.   Sprgr   waslso achieved in                       the fragilew foreig  reserve posion
initily hed by Slovenia. Th  rea deva on and tght dmand policies led tO incrg curr
ccou  supluses, ra         US720 milion In 199.  The cwre  accunt suplu  ccobuted
significanty to the build-up of fregn reserves-from only US$170 miion ber the program to
US$1,170 million In Febray 1993, to eqvalent of the months of Imports. Ts mpwvem    was
achievedespit th duction of procotatled to a dcres in th  averag hmort ffto les thn
10% at the end of 1992.
12.   Ibe 41stdffizuio prm met its two immediate objeis at h   most of furhter contaons In
acivity, however. Inoed, the tight demd policies wer Introduced in a hostile external
as ndicaed by hfrther disruptions in tad with the frmer Yugolav rqeblics and the slaking of
actit In Westn Europe. As a reot, re  GDP decld by another 7% during 1992, and Indusi



4
ou4mu s now 25% below 1990 leves. Fixed Inesment als declined in the recat years to anali-time
low of 16.6% of GDP In 1M. Ile contact  of acdvity wa amnied by a sharp Irase in the
rae of u, om around 4% In 1990 to mm than 13% in lt 1M. Althog te decine
In Industr out  has bom    lss sevr  dnce mid-1992 (ige  1), the xte   l         re
unhvorable.  ded, Utde with te at of Yugoslvia b e          to decine fuer, gien the roem
Politca delopent In the Balkn and the contaction of activity In the forme republics. The
possbe fr a stong rovery based on iacrsed exots to th Wet ar also, weak, iveidth currt
_Xpm hin Wetem Eurpe.  bs  atos could actually lead to fiuar   decines In otut dag
1993.
FIGURE 1: Seected Macreoomic Varies
MOITMLY RATE Or INFLATION. 1991-93           MONTHLY It0USIf AL PRO 1UCTION, 1991-93
W;ES IN REAL U WUAOL^R  1HaS1103                   MA^L M2 AND CREDITSSJ1
a,,     womm SUm a. O-sm    m Taupe
-                                                U _w   11"  ~ -                -1
1 -
Is                                              U N



S
13.   Ihe Sloven economy Is now at a crssrads, as the recen macroeconmic Improvemes have
been achieved on the same distoted microeconomic odations     led to hyperinlation and economic
stanion In the 1980s. In additio to the slim prospects of a short-tem reovery, there b a possiblity
dtat the success in reducing Ilaton and budidg up resr   may be reversed, uiml the reform of the
entprise ad banking sectors  e rpidly Imlemented.   her  are several indican  that the
Govrmets stabilization proa  I already under stn. Etprise lossremainedhhduring 1992-
-around 17% of GDP on sa     n basis. Tbeso losses would continue under the present sym and
reate increasing difficulties for the ban  and the monetary sutorities.
Table 1
_~~~~ i_
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ------------- ----
Sou   Dos QUa%* DWh*W-
14. IThe very low quality of loan portfolios has already iLduced the liquidity of several bank in the
banking system tD critical levels, and has made them increasingly dependent on upport from the Bank
of Slovenia (DOS). As shown in Table 1, there has been a sibstanti increas in DOS liquit  loans
t troubled baWn  In recent months, and these banks have also experienced    reasig difficulties to
comply with aserve reqWrome_ts. Although the BOS has made major eforts to minmize gm Impact
Of these developments on the oveanl conduct of monetary polUcy, te contnuaton of the present ataon
could jeopdize monetay coro in the nea  fit. In addition, the problems in loan portlios and
the high lending risshave also ld ba  to chsrge vey hih ia         rea  and leadingitest
rates-real interest rates on bank credits to enteise have been awund 25-28% p.a., compared with real
inerest rates on time deposis of 7-10% p.a.. These bigh real leg    ras discourag investnt in
viable frm  and may trigger a fbrter drioran of the banks' loan portfolios.
15.   The expiration of a resticive wage law in Febuary 1992 also created problems fOr
macroeconomic maagement durig that year, as wages started i      rapily in term  of real US
dollrs (Fgure 1), inducing DOS to allow the Tolar tD deprecite t xvoid a lossa in competeness d and
increasing the risk of a wageexchae ate-pice spiral. The 1992 wage hinas  wer initiated in the
entepris  sector but spiled over to the public sector, due to legal linkages between wages in the two
sectors. Tho wag preur  intenied at the end of 1992, leading the Govenment to introduce
legidion in Febnry 1993, rwving some of the wage gains in the enterpise sector, freezg all wages
from March to June 1993, and sverng the direct likages between wages in the two sectors. However,
the Govenment was fred by the court o pay some wage          on to public sector employees in
early 1993 due to the former legal likages between wages In the two sectors.
16.   The restrictve wage lesan    roduced In early 1993 i eected to reduce averag monthly
wages from US$450 in Febrary to aound US$370 by June. Both the stabilizadon program ad th
compettivens of expt  wi  probably nt be damaged if the Government is able to preven aoter
escala   of nonal wages. Indeed, if the Goverment succeeds in restra_ing nomia wages afer



6
June, therewoud be a convegoe  of wag  In real US dola (a meu  of the redl excangue rate) to
levels somwhat bdow their averag in the second balf of the 1980s (ge 1) whout the need for
aggressive devaluations. The prospet for h e       of a restrictive wae policy a er Jun are
favorable, as suggested by    ratfication of new collective agreements for the  xprse and th public
sectors (para. 84). Hower, far to mainta  a resctive policy during the whole period of transition
would mos likely result In excesalve wag pressur-a remring problem under socidal ownership. That
uxd have adve     consequecs for bnatio andlor the current account.
17.   In sum, althugh fa Government has made remakable progs In stabiling the economy, the
unfavorable exten  environment wi contn  to impose obstacles on the recovery of the economy in
the short-run. More Importanly, there are some worrisome similarities between Slovel's si_tuaon
today and the Yugosav staton In mid-l . Like Yugoslavia, Slovenes inial success in stabilizai
is being theated by persistent Imbalne In eepses and bans and their Increasing dependence on
support from the central bank. Although, when compared to Yugoslavia, Slovenia has a much better
potenti to resucture its economy, the consolidation of the stabilizadon gains will depend on the fil
Im     tion of entepdrs and bank refbrms and the prompt Intoduction of supportive macroe oc
measures.
TW GoVnaW's Program Of mciral Rjbm
18.   The Govenmt is awa dth the cuent thre to stabilizaton originat from the same disored
mcroeonmic fundations tdht led Slovenia to expedenc  hronic inflaon and economic    for
more tha a decade. For this reason, the Government has started implementIng a comprehnsive and
intgrated program of enterprise and banking refrms which include the privatiaton of most socially-
owned           th, die introductdo of State ownesip and control of a very small number of e
providing public services, the svance of ownership links between enteprie and bans, ad the
rhilitaio  and prbvation of banks. The  pln in  f these reflis wrill gain momentum In
the second half of 1993 and Is expected to change radically the behavior of economic ag , leadig
ultimately to much greater financial displine and Improved resource allocation.
19.   The Govenm   Is ao aware tha the fail impl_1  ofthese  ms  wll require etnsive
fiscl support, and has deigped a fcal program wich iS conDsistent with the rorms' finan
requirements ad with Slovenia's curnt and prjected macoeconomic situation. This program contains
three basic componens. T   first component consists of an immediate and significant increase in te
amount of resources channelled to economic restructuring: 4.2% and 5.4% of GDP in 1993 and 1994,
respectiely, compaed with only 2.1% In 1992. The second cmponet consists of a   hinto a
moderate budgetary deficit of 2% of GDP in the short run, followed by a fiscal contracion In the medium
rn. These changes In the fiscal stance are fdly consstent with Slovenia's current and projected
macroeconomic ituation, as the shif into a deficit taks plae In a situto of depressed investment  d
out  and larg currt accou  surplus, wheras the fiscal coaction materializes in the perod wheee
invesn will be recven and driving economic activity. Finally, the hird component cowas of
a medium rn reduction In the overal levels of revenues and exendituros: from the currently hiSL  svel
of 47% of GDP to levels around 44% of GDP, which ae closer to the EC average and will rwest a
reduced presence of the Govermet in resource allocation.
20.   Finally, as mentioned befoe, the Government has accorded high priority to the concusion of
collcive oagr      with public sector and soi enpdse employees, in order to avoid aother
escadation of wage after the expiration of the cuT wage law In mid-1993. These agreements wil



7
sever any lg  linkages betwn wa  In the two sacrs, pren wage         immediately afer the
expiaon of the law, and subjet wage In bot sectors to a vey pdral ian   scheme, wheby
wages aro not adjusted If the monthly rate of Inflation Is less than 3%, and ar only partally adjusted If
lation exceeds  a level. Loss- maing           will con       to be subject to additona wage
restrictions.
21.   This reform program (which Is desbd In deal In Secdon IV of th  rept) wIll enable the
Govenment to start reducing the defici orgnadtg at the eneprise lovel, ths removng the pressres
on the Bank of Slovenia and consolidting the stabIliton gains. The Governmnt 4sso hopes tha the
rdeorms wil lead to inase in the leve   d efficenc of fed inv t ad ultimay to substantial
improvemes in Sloveoa's grwth pefornce.
B.    Pnupecps aad the E3tead l      a
Grada Recovy of   ssmm   and Ouu (as Cas)
22.   Growh Outoo  ITe base mo         nomic scenario for Slovenla has been prepared on the
mption that during the net two to three years the country wll fully implemeont Its refrm program
and complet the privetizatin pcess. As mendoned bor, this will tmute investmet, especially
In the privat sector, impe eficiency, and pave the way for utained long-nm growth led by the
private sector. As a reslt of the efficien  gains and the recovy In Investment, Slovenia should be able
to resore gowth rats close to hos obtained in h late 1970s, but with lower Investm  raft dhan
in th  peiod. Thus, while Yugoslavia need  to inest 34% of I GDP in oderto achiove growth rates
close to 6% p.a. during the 1970s, Slovala should be able to sustain growth rates of 5% In the long-ru
with an lnvetment raio of around 21-22% of GDP, thus Implying a reduction in tke i   capitll
out  ratio (ICOR) from around 6, which was at           level shared by most EatEuraopen
economi befre thir reoms, to levels disghy above 4, which s still above the ICOR displayed by
mmy countaies          succssful structur adjustment
23.   However, this growth potental can be reaizd only in the second half of the 1990s, afer the
compleon of stctr reom and as the Slovene econm  Is enabled to mploy I resources at loves
oser to their l potential. As shown in Table 2, the long-ru seario 1 D  an increase of fixed
lnvesmnt by 5% of GDP - from 16.5% of GDP in 1992 to 21.5% at the end of the decade. Privat
sector nvestment would acco   for o lagest she of ths ine, especiay stng in 1994, as a
mult of the pdvation program, th reducto of xcess ccty In th  economy, and the prospects
of economic reovery in Wte  Europe. Public investme  in nfrtre    is expected to account
for a small sha  of sh Increase (fom the curret 3.8% of GDP to 4.5% of GDP) but most of the
visaged incrse in public investm    would take place   1993 and 1994 and would conrbute to
rea  Of economic aciity.
24.   During t  itemediae yes (1993-1995) the Sloveoe oeonomy may remain affected by slow
growth In Western Europe and by furter diruption In trade with  e former Yugoslav repubcs.
!t Ahould be noted tt excs capacity in dh sectors mm oratd owt ds Wesem  urp is not
oolldeoed 1to be very le, and te sectos titioy oenad towards Yuolavia wll hv to mak
some illnmt in aoer to upgade 4paity and  oent prductin, ovewi a rdaively bigh eein
Capcity.



Altho  expt to the former Yugolavia have alreaty declined substaaly-from 40% of GDP In
1990 to less ta 17% of GDP in 1992, some further disruptions should be expected, given the decli
of GDP inthe fomer republcs and the political ucrtanty in the Balkans. These advee ect wil
probably be concenaed In 1993, but are sumed to be pudy offset by the positve impact of the fi
stmulus aud the growth of wages at the end of 1992. Therefore, it Is predicted tha real GDP wil
continue to decline in 1993, but that such decline will be moderate-an assumption which is supported
by the recet reord on industrial ascty. Recovery Is assumed to start in 1994 and to accelerate in
1995.
Table 2
qected ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ 99 1hat ffio                      $9   ..'c cou   lsrltiet   D      199E willbe pimi
..      S ..s...
m d bai i _ n l G .4a  n n%il
25al smplusoindon aodfict iuasrelated tnwo , ancesd disca support fon the Ckrmst Actourn I irgas
upegtbed tD the decears Pinaly th Uae uiacont sutplu comueo abo GDPlt inm 1993 wlbe pinf
mlbi CD eatced byoa hu_bIn cosumpdonrdltiv ee to GP  Such anrae, iriconisumto w(S ee
domabled by andae COS6Ito an for {eater tode      m.         Mfl     i heh)avrg
leve ofrdwgsITM     ept he         from of  nominan wagP tbiies  in the  firstm half ofrs  1993, and  thelie
sopecbte st 1h - ---- of rfesdective waghis in tescond hal, veag real wages grwn tgte 1993 prdu
stM beas5  hinh dWan ther     s IMdo avtp 7he e levels fcorf thealf eofa inoesthe gcuude fo
saco smlus Int  doefck,wihbrlted to decline fise i 194ad 199, ueportfor th retto fing pecovr o
26.  we  cii   h rati o of covumpteon   to GDP saia  in prjete btenrmedi  assmha (195han dwringtes
second half of the 1990s, but te adidWonal incres in investmn are expected to be. financed *om



9
endogenous (growdt-related) ncrases in                    Tabb 3
national savings. Overall, the curret      ......*.......
accountsurlus is epcted to decline           1              iI
from the 199 level of 6.3 % of GDP 
(US$720 million), to about 3.3%  of    |  X                    .
GDP In 1993 (US$406 million), to about    |  |  
1.5% of GDP between 1994-96, beWore
gineai  gradually at the end of the   |                             ,
decade.
27.   Te  Evlauidon  of  Eporw   , 
hrtso, and Factor Iwome. Slovenla         .'t.g.
bas been 1abe tw     nd  exports in a9      .
sluggish Western Eopean market partly   i        d     .l       .
because u hsu  been t994 bu                      the
portions of the former Yugoslav quots
left open by the trde embargo   Vo                                                 1
on Serbia and Montenegro. However, w    i i
the possilities of erp2Oding exports i not  eas
through  t   vis channel seem  nearly                   . mos lt l
exasted. In adition, the slow growth
expcteds for Western Europe indicate that export expasion should abate sgndficantly i  1 .
2Theefore, St Is projected that exports wil grow marginaym 1993, and wi gain momentum very
gradually stan  in 1994  Imports are oxtected to grow much faster t    exorts in 1993, mflecting
mostly a rt very of both consumption and Iports from depressed lmeves. Te rate of import growth
Will subside starting in 1994, but emai s sighty hbher ta ex t given the ncreasing trend in
domestei Investment.
28.   As a rest of these envisaged developmenats, the trade balance Is  pected to hf   from the 1
srpIUS of US$240millon into aU5 dclltofUS$230million in 199, and to remain indefcit duringthe
remainder of the decade, a patter which Is in lne with SlovenWs historical experience. However, as
mendoned above (para. 26), Slovenia is no   expected to record curet account deficits, as th surplus
In non-fator sevices (i           urim) will most  Dily conaDe to outweigh the deficits In the
trade accounts. Moreover, as Interest income on a growing stock of foreign exchange reserves gradually
Incrases, the deficit in net factor income is expcte to be reduced significanty over time.
29.   Dekt Servic and Rnandng Requirments. Despite surpluses in the curret account, ftduingte
coming years Slovenia wll have to obtain a significant amount of foreign flnmcing, in order to meet Its
debt obligation, and gradually build-up reserves to a level sufficient to meet 5 months of imports (pars
32), a level comparable- to that achieved by Hungar and Poland. As shown In Table 3, long-term debt
repayments are projected to be between US$250-330 million per year between 1993-97 on the basis of
the existing debt obliatons, including Slovena's share of the US$3 billion of unallcated Yugoslav
fdedea debt, estmated at US$450-US$SO0 million.2 The projected debt repayments als include the fill
2  Owing to remainn uncertante regading the preiem aomou of Slovanas dhae of Yugcslv federa
debt and, especialy, ito sevic requremnt n tho fture, it is hypotesized doat tie a=mumd feder debt
will be service yearly on seven eqwdual inslments of US$6 millio betwee 1994-2000. Slovenias debt



10
setemnt of US$90 millon in arr    to the Paru club duig 1993. The stlemet of thee arer
(which was expected to occur In 1992) implies an nea  in Slovea's debt reaymet obligaWom tO
around US$330 mllion in 1993.
30.   In tis rgad, it shou  be noted ht Slovenia inends to honor fully its obligations and avoid
rescheduling Its enal debt, not Only to gain free acce tD ieatonal cap   markt, but lo to
renegot its way out of republicn crossdefault  u . b  soad fiator is putkudlay important,
as republican crossdefault dau   ealsh  duri  the Yugoslav period make Slovenia (and the ohr
former rqublices) liable for default in paymes by any sin   republic. The         of an
Impeccable paymens record Increases Slovenlacls   to detah itsdf from such clauses with idte or
no penalty.
31.   The volume of fore   fincIng requid for the rpayment of debt obligations ad for the
achievemet of the zeserves arget would amount to about US$270 million n 1993, would incres to
around US$400 milion in 1994 and 1995, ad would deli thereaft. Foreip direct iesment (FDI)
is projected at US$100 million per year during ths peiod, an amount which is approximatey equal to
the amount obtaed in 1992, and which represen  a dgnificant incease over the negigible leves
recorded in 1988-1991. Long-tem capIa dibrsements are epected to provide the remaining US$200-
300 mMion. Alhug hese  amounts  larger tn tho    plied by existing co _    for 1993-95,
Slovenia shoud be able to over the differce through addiWonal long-erm credits. The proposed loan
would help Slovenia narrow te diffrence and meet its finncing reqWirements.
32.   Altho  Slovenia was able to increase foreigo exchang reserves tD about 3 months of imports,
a furter icase In the ratio of rerves t hports is warrnted fDr the reasons. First, Slovenhas
no gold reserves. Second, her is still uncertiny in debt service requrements, particularly regarding
the tot  amount and d    e       pfle of Slovenia's dsare of unallocatd Yugoslav federal debt
Finally, the high dege of mess of te Slovene economy (export rqerset 50% of GDP) cals for
a level of reserv  that is suffcient to soten the Impact of possible advse trade shocks (including furer
disruptions in trade with h formr Yugosavia) on imports and outpt A gradual increase in reserves
to 5 monhs of imports Implies that resves wl h    to grow fom US$1,163 mMl at the end of 1992
(resees to import ratio of 2.9) to US$1,518 million at the end of 1993 (reervesto Impts ratio of 3.5),
to US$1,915 mion in 1994 (reserves to Imports ratio of 4), ad to US$2,235 milion in 1995 (resv
to imports rato of 4.3). Resr   would be furter amWeduring the second half of the decade so
as to reah their long-run target
AkeradeSenwo
33.  TMe base scenaio desioed above smes a gradual kovement of Slovenla's extenal
environmnt and full Im laton of the Govemenets program  of economic refoms.  Bolh
ass t   can be judged reasoble, gi  the an      on of a gradrecovyofenomic activiq
in the EC, fte prospects of a more stable trde; with the fmer Yugosavi (although resticted to Croa
and the form    Yugsw Republic of Macedonia), ad th  Governmens god record in reom
Implementati. Howeer, It is sl importa  to dentify m o uavorable scenaios, result  eithe
sevie equirem  Ia 6* Iia yea col ewed ths pmojeid shud an accelwded  pspynmt
schedul aor doe ammp*m of larr patm of Yugosv fxed ds be equird by ; _
m0e n cbp frth qfm o  mduf a



11
fiom a morm hostile   al envronment or from imps slippages. Tbis sen pre               two
altnative downide scenarios, wherea the nex section desrIe contingec plos to dea with
downside ris.
34.   A hosske eal eonment. Ihe base scenario assumes hat Slovenla's epots to markets
outside the former Yugosavia will grow gradualy in the folowing years, reacin a rate of S% p.a. only
In the second half of the decade. The base sceaio alo  msums  a expots to fomer Yugodav
markt wil drop to 10% of GDP in 1993 (down from 40% of GDP In t  late 1980s and from 16% of
GDP in 1992), but will stabilize at these leves In the following yeas. Finally, the ba scenario assumes
tdat the servicing of Slovenia's share of Yugoslav unallocated fedel debt will be distributed equally over
a ped of seven years (1993-2000), and that Slovenia will be able to detach Ise from cross-deau
clauses without penalties. Although these assumptions are reasonable, there are possibilies of a more
duggish recovery of acdvity in the EC, and of furer coloap  of Utade with Croatia and FYR
MacedoiL
35.   These adverse developmns would have a very negatve impact on Slovenias sma and open
economy. A more pronounced collapse of trade wth the former republics would lead to further drops
in output and a steepe increase in unemployment Moreover, the difficulty to reorient export to markets
outi  Yugosavia would delay economic recovery and lengthen the period of high U l n he
pressur  on the budget could hinrease to excessive levds, causing delays in refom  Implo - lation and
ultimay jeopardizing the stabization gains. Finally, more strigent dmands by   ronal creditos
(faster debt repayments combined whh some penalty payments) would drain Slovena's reseves precisdy
in a perid of poorer export permac, possibly leading to a reduction in reserves to very low levels
and to external fmancing problems.
36.   Iwqpkmentadoz slppages. Ihe base scenario assumes fiull Impi   of the Govemet's
refm  program, which comprises enterpis and bank r  ructuing and supportive fiscal and Incomes
policies. Although the Government's commitment to reforms warrt such an assumption, there is a risk
Of slippages in th Implementation of entrise and bank resucuring due to the absence of adequate
support from fiscal and income policies. For instae, the Goverment may fall to provide the required
getary UppOr to bankrsrutuing in 1994 (2.3% of GDP, compued to only 0.8% of GDP in 1993)
due to lack of Paliam  y apvl. Ihe fure to provide aquae fiscl support would delay
rstructuring and reduce the cae of an early and ustne recovery of Invesmen and output It
could also result in moundng prres on the Bank of Sloveia and a relation of monetary policy, with
adverse consequences for inflation and possibly Ihe currnt account.
37.   The base scenaio assmes       the temporary Increase in the fisca deficit during 1993-94 -
asociated with the restuctui    effort - wil be quiddy revered. Fiscal ekpdiu    are expected to
be reduced from 49% of GDP in 1993 toward 46.5% in 199S. Crucial in tiis adjustment will be a
reduction in public epediur  not  ated wih the rerucing efrt. This wil call for strict
expenditure controls particulaly on wage policy. These dwelopments pose a risk ta will be closely
monitrd as part of the overall assitae program of the Bank (paras. 4144).



12
C.    Mea* of Om lboo's Countr As _tS Mt
SloVea's Deelopnt raees
38.   As discusd above, the Govemens reform program is cented on reoin8g the diored
micenomfc foundatos that led Sloveda to epece dronic nfation and ecomic             for
more than a decade. The Governmet epct that tho compeheosive  d itegted pogam of
enterp   and bankig reforms wil result in an incres in iho lovel and efficiey of fixed mve
thus reveing Sbove'8 economic decin. Iwo pvatizaon of sociallyowe e      i  is expected
to increase the tepses' willgss to invest. The fici rhabilitaion of bank shod redt in
lower re  lding rates, and further increase the attractivees of new  vee. Most Importanly,
the restucturing and pdvatzadon of enterpises and bank-which wi  inlude curtailing the ownerhp
link bewe  them-should lead to much greater financial dilie ad Imprved resou    allocation
The Governnt aims to implem  these reform under a macroeonsomic  mework whch inlude,
hi   ih supportive fisal d Incomes poLcies, and the mantenance of a soci safety net.
39.   The Govermers secn major piority is the improveme  of           e in particula te
development of bette tranpowt and c  n     i       with Wester Europe. Although Slova's
tnsport system is relatvy well developed, it Is oriented towards the fmer Yugoslav republics. Bette
integrtion Int tho Eurpean  nport netwok Wil encourage foreg tade, and increase regioal transit
traffic betwen Ialy/Austia and Central Erope. Similarly, a modem and efficet ele a
network In Slovenia will fHcilitate economic inertion with Western Europe and allow Slovena to
become an East-West Imltions link. The current el nin failies are inadequate due
to in cient dsity of telephone subcribe, outatd systm  of telphone exchanges, and low
assortmnt of high level tele-informatic serices. To solve these botdlecks, thfe Goverment has
desgned a Five Year Development Project which wil requi large Investents during the 1991-1995
40.   The Govments tird  major pioft is to improve the countrs e    m . Te reliUce
on loca cal wi* a high suphur connt, togete with a lawk of tratment fities ad waste
magemen cool in tmal power plant, has resulted in heavy air pollion in some urban areas and
in hey poluton of iver. The Goverment has idemid the major components of a ptogrm to
impv tho ekonment. Air pollution could be si cantly rduced by supplying natural gas for
redent  hatg  in high pority ato  and InsUing d    a       equipme in power plants. Water
polltion might be abated thu_gh the imple m ati   of a _ater program in major urban ams.
Finly, tie  is a need to implemet solid wat managem  in urban areas, and to stregthen
Insti_tions.
Fornang the Bak's Program of Asst
41.   While it is too early to have a fully structured and agreed Country Asitn  Strategy in place,
it is clear ht the Ba's program of assistane suld be focused on supporting the centra elements of
SloveaWs stuctr reDrm program, which i being implemented under a difficult exterL envionnt.
The proposed Eeprpie and Financial Sector Adjustmen Loan wil addre  the core of the systemi
transitiproblem, and will be the first and most important vehicle of Bank support to Sloveia. This
loan wM  lo help set the policy and istiudona frmeork required for a sdect number of future Bank
operatdons. The rtuctg and pratzation of enepis  and bank which Is being supported by this
loan, wil greatly exmd the universe of private and creditworthy  tpses seeking credit. Ihereo,



13
we hope to complement tis loan with a follow-up FY94 investment recovey opeaton aimed at
providn finance fr expding privateri.
42.   Because of is relativy high per cpt  Income, Slovenia s epeced to gradat from a borrower
stas withn 3 to 5 years. Bank operations during thi period are exected to be few in number and
designed to addres high prority objectives. In addition to th two compe    loans mentioned
above, the Bak leding program would include one envionment projec and one additonal investm
orrtl    Ihe eovirom t project Is expected to be ready in FY95. The addional invet
operation has nt been fully identfied, and would only proceed to the xte  ta tte Bank could
contribute tD the assistrc progam of European agencies, such a8 the EBD and the BIB, which are
curently suortng the development and integation of Slovenias I uc   with Western EurpeW.
43.   Altough Sloenia has a current account surplus and contnng (albei rapidly declning)
surplue are projected for the next yeas, a firs adjustm  operaiion is desirable for sveral  sons.
First, the Govment's program ents a significant and immediate   ease in fiscal ependitures related
to the restuct    of enterprises and banks, and the provision of an adequat social safety net. The
present loan will help the Government mobilze the required volume of resources without resorting to
atonary finance or causing undue presure on SlovenlaWs undeveloped capital market. Second,
Slovenia is facing sbsta    debt epqmeb and will have to in  additonal payments related to its
share of unalocated Yugosav debt  Finally, although Slovenia was able to bufld up reserves after
independence, the level of reserves is not adequate for a very open economy still subject to a very
uncetin   enaul envirnment. Some additional resenre build-up is therefore part of the medium-term
macroeconomic framework agreed between the Slovene authorities, the Bank, and the IM.
44.   Th tentativ lending program outlined above asumes full Impi  n of the Governmen's
program. Althouh the Govemet's good record in the impl_ mn of refoms suggests flwi Bank
leading will proceed as envisaged, there is a risk of impi  on slippages due to faltering supt for
fiscal and inomes pocies. In this case, the second tranche of the EPSAL would not be released, the
Investment Recovery Project would be disontinued, and the additional invesm  opeaton woud not
be itiated. As indicaed in Table 4, the Bank's lending program would be reduced to the compledon
of ths curren t      and the envioment project, as the latter may remain justfied even under a
downside scnario. On the other hand, additional Bank upport t Slovenia may be waranted in the case
of a very hostile exteral enwiroment The Country Economic M ndum, which is scheduled for
FY95, will make a thorough examiton of Slovenia's economy, assess the need for additional Bank
support, and provide a fiamework for graduation.
The Ban's Pofl Managmn
45.   Thre are cu y t        active Bank operaons in Slovenla which were approved when the
Republic was stll1 a member of the Yugodav federation. Ihese inude a US$84 mMlion loan for an
Energy Conervation and Substuton Project, which is over 90% disbursed; a US$18.9 milion loan
repreenting a component of the Yugodsavia Power Tranmission m project; and a US$32 million loa
for the Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage project. The fir two of the above loans wil close
by end-1993, and the hird loa by end-199S. Disbursement under these lons s continuing as planed.
Slovenia is current on its debt service payments in accrdan  with an agrement on debt apporionmnt
reahed with the Bak, whereby Slovenlia assumed debt service responsibility for Bank loans bn
borrwew on tts teritory.



I  .~~~~~~~~~~~...Ž... ...
IF
1|$ [|Sta   l.S l[|f0
xS~~~~I l W    rt  
ll,r,l,l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ll     .. 
}ttSW}t   atW[:.i
iEw  s2[Xg   0t1   I.B'               w



is
portatio, aad pivat sector devopmen  A hydropower dedopmt projec is alrady under
hmia  A PHARE program for Slovenia of ECU 6.7 million s al  prviing teh*c
sistame vfor public    sUcre             science and tehology, prdVattn, and suppott for
the Minisr of Fince and fiacl sector agnies.      t ilho assisn  prvided by the EBRD
and the EC PHARE program    o           to the         envisaged under this loanX



16
., The Enterprise and Bking Sectors
A.    The Current Structure of the Enterprise Sector
50.   Slovenia has more  than                                Table S
55,000 enterprises, of which 35,000 are
small one-two peron units and the
balance  are  classified  as  "formal     .
enterprises.  The largest numbers of
enterprises are in services and trade, but O & 
the industrial sector accounts for nearly
half of the value of output of the              | *             t     W     fl 
enterprise  sector.    There  was  a        
significant increase in the number of                                         1
enterprises in 1992 in all sectors., with               . 
the lagest increases i fin cial and ri un .er    1 4=m         ?  .         .   1 . .    
business senices, trade and industry  jv A. .....-.. 
(Table 5).  Some of this ii-crease,                         .m              s .
partichulary in industry, is due to the
ongoing   process   of  splitting                                         ..4  
conglomaes   and larger enterprises
into independent operatineg units in       f    of cpi  a24-.
ianicipation of privazation. In other 1'h .               Ihe          b
sectors (trade, financial/business
services) new entry by the private sectr
largely accounts for the increase.
Table 6
51.   The formal enterprise sector accounts for                           ................. .
about two-fthids of both GDP and total employment.Ad
Employment in the formal enterprise sector has
dropped sharply over the past 12 months and has                                     ....
been  the main  cause of the overall rise in                                 $.*.
unemployment rate (Fable 6) .
52.   Four types of ownership are recognized under
Slovene legisation, together with a "mixed" category    m                             r
which includes any combination of the four. The__
categories  are:    (1) private  enterprises; CHi) 
coopertvives, which are jointly-owned by employees;
(iii) socWaly-owned enterprises, for which ownership   ~W*~.                   ~     4$.
is not clearly defined, but ulftiate managerial power 
is exercised by workers' councils elected by the               *(      .     1.
workers assembly; and (iv) state-owned enterprise,  *~v~
where the ownership is vested in the State which, at
present, is represented by line minitres. Four forms of companies aeallowed: joint-stck, limited
liability, limited partnerhip and geneal partnership companies. The State can be the sole-owner or a



17
share-holder of both joint-stock and limited liability companies. Small businesses need not form
companies and can regitw as sole proprietors. Between mid-1991 and mid-1992, private employment
almost doubled albeit from a small base, while employment in the socially-owned sector decreased by
14%. Nevertheless, socially-owned enterprises continue to account for the predominant share of output
and of employment (Table 7).
Table 7
B.    Structure of the Blddng  Sector
53.   Ihe Slovene finacial system consists of: the  central bank  of Slovei (BOS); ffiirty
commercial ba6; 108 saving and cooperatve banks; and several non-bank fimcial ueifons.
,A Securities anXd Exchange Commission an a StDkExhange wer estalishdin 1990. 'M  comri
banbk do mina thie financial syw anld are the majoI source of credit to the economy. ThirZee of thie
ddt commrc  bankcs btilong to the Ljubljansl Banka SysWm (B), which accounts for about 82%
of te btot asst of thie banking system Crable 8 and Table 9). The reive size of thie other seventeen
banlcs is small: two of these banks, SKBdd and Abanka tDgether account for about 10% of the banking
system's total asst.  Mst of te remaing fteen bank  are new banks which were established
following the removal of barriers to entr into thie baning sector in 1990, and none account for more
Om  .S% of thie systeWs toa  st. 7here are eigt bak wihfreign paricipaton, of whic one
Is fUly forsgp oned.
54.   LBS evolved out of a rasformaon inidate9 i 1990, of a     prior Yugoslav sys9 m of republic-
base maiae and basic banke, and consists of Ljubljanska Banka dd (LBdd) and twelve smaller
member bahs (rable 9). LBdd is the result of the merger ill 1991 of Ljubljanska Banka (the frme
asodiated baic) and Gospma banlm (the largest basic bankc in the prior syse). Prior to thi s-
Em bxic l       conaututd d  oor of e com1      balng sysm in former Yugoslavia  They were
fomded, owned, and &nztdbmd e3cclsivey by etetpdse. ne basi ben &rmed mm banking
Follps, mcludmg one group for each Repuic and Provin. Ewch gopeomaed an associated ban
whici hanE  fompi escdge and lage borrowig operauons for its memnber basi barf.



1s
formation, the twelve basic banks were the majority              Table 8
owners of the associated bank, and shareholder-       I.T =7
enterprises were the major owners of the basicP
bans.  This structure was reversed though a                  M N    l 
complex exchange of participations in the pro:ess of
tranformtionof the system: through which, the                            t  b 
shareholder-nprises obtained majority ownership
of LBdd, and LBdd roceived, in exchange,
preferential sharesofdup to                             a nthecapitalofthe  of ao  1 
former basic banks.
55.   The rehabilitation of LBdd was Initiat  In
January 1993, at which time the Republic Of
Tablee 9
Slovenli becamet he sole owner of the bank pama
% ?*W   % o*    111).  Until then, no shareholder-enterpise had
*.. LBd has re d from  .npetin more than a 2% stake in the bank and the majority
of theseentipivtes had less taIlj% share. There
were, however, many finkages among these shar-
.& ~~~~~ holder-enterprises, particularly among those within
the aInge conglomerates. The Republic of Slovenal
had retained a participation of about 12% in the
staff triig  nla toi o     evcs bank   LBS member bas ha   been genely
autonomous, as the preferentia share of LBdd in
these bank only caM  vout  rights of up to 20% ad only in cas  when a member bank has not Paid
an appropriate dividend. The LBS goup, therere, has not costitt  a financial roup for consida-
tion purposes.
56.    lBdd has refrained from compeig with LBS member banks, which a  regionally based, in
their geogrhic areas. it has intead conIned its domfestic avities to wiin the Ljubljna area, and
has reained the domint role in intrnational banking actviies. In view of its iratonal network
(seven biteaonal subsiaes or aiiates and 22 foreigree           offices), it has, by com
agreement, continued to provide a range of services Qncuding intenational banking support, nmarktin
staff tra ing, and atomated  oformaton seices) to LBS member banks.' It has also provided a
substania amount of credit and pwtmto thiese member banks.
C.    Ism In the Eutrprise and Stul ec Stod=
57.   The nate of the ownship struc    in socially-owned and mixed enteries has been a root
cause of Slovenias past and present economic difficultie. Social ownershp was devised In former
Yugoslavia as a solution to the failure of central planning. It was believed that self-management of an
enterprise by a coalition of nmanagers and workers would overcome the problems of State ownership
without the perceived inequities of a market system. However, becaus of the Inherent conflicts which
4   LMd ha b" SiX        ~~~in former Yugousav Republic. 13 satatu of thes sbusidirl.
btn4sisetsito be  ern&



19
arise when workers and managers make agreeorents betwe themselves about eteprise goals, wage
rat, social benefits, discplia  measures, and becae of the prerogatives given in this system to
workers' councils to approve all important business decisions including the selection of managers, there
has been no effective advocate for capital and no long-term strtegic view which such advocay normally
provides. By the end of the 1980s, the flaws in this system and its negaive impact on the eonomy were
evident and widely recogpized. In an  ttet to address this issue, Yugoslavia introduced federal
legisaion in 1989/90 for transformation of social owneship, but the responsibility for adopting
implementng legislation was left to the republics. In Slovenia, the debate on privatization options lasted
nearly two years and delayed, until very recently, the introduction of effective programs and supporing
legislation for ownesship transformation.
58.   There are also important problems posed by state-owned enterprises. While these enterprises
represent only a relatively minor part of the enterprise sector in terms of the number of enterprises
(around 1%) and of output (10%), they account for about 30% of total losses in the enterprise sector.
In part, the financial problems of state-owned enterprises are due to controls on the prices of their outputs
(as for example for the power companies) and to major disruption caused by the break-up of Yugoslavia
(as for the ralroads). At the same time, however, their capacity for adjustment is seriously consied
by inadequate exercise of owneip rights and by poor corporate governce. Representation of State
ownership in sta-owned eteprises is curently undertaken by line ministries that are also responsible
for sectoral policies and strategies. Conflicts of interest have arisen from this combiDation of the
owneship and the goverce functions in a single ministry. Moreover, as there has been until recendy
no clear definition of the sectors in which the Government wishes to maintain ownership, decisions on
investments by the State and on transformation to State ownership have been taken on a case-by-case bash
(such as for the steel enterprises). As a result, a variety of ownership patterns exists in some of the
above sectors, including some entse s that are wholly socially-owned, some that are wholly state-
owned and ohrs with a mix of State and social ownership.
59.   Thus, while the smal but growing private sector is thriving, a large nmmber of the socia, mixed
and state-owned enteres tht dominae the non-agricultural economy have not made the adjustent
th are required to cope with the shrinkng traditional markets and new competitive forces. this failure
has resulted in escation of enterprise losses, iese  in defaults on debts to the banking sector, and a
rapid inra  in inter-enterprise arnr . During 1992, total accountng losses Incured by 4,930
enterpises amounted to SfT 169 billion or 17% of GDP on an annual basis. The 100 top loss-making
enteprises accounted for 73% of this total. Among this latter group, 19 enterprises that are or wil
become state-owned enprises accouned for  approximaty 56% of the group's losses, while 81 socially-
owned enerpi  accounted for the balance.
60.   The contimuing poor perfomance of the enterprise sector has led to major difficulties of near
crisis proportions in the banking sector. The fundament cause of this crisis is rooted in the linkage
between bank owners and borrower which has been a basic feature of the Yugoslav banking system and
which has led to connuing misallocation of credit and increasing proportions of problem loans and
guarantees in the system. The cost of carring these problem loans is being reflected in very high
intermediadon spreads. Lending rates have risen to levels that are much higher than normal rates of
return on capital and are subUtaay bampering investment and growth of viable enterprises. Currently,
real interest ras on deposits range between about 7% for 90-day deposits and 10% for 180-day deposits.
Real interest ates on working capial loans and long-term invement loans are about 25% and 28%
repectvely.



20
61.   As can be expected, these high rates, which              Table 10
are leading  to  increasing  arrears, are  also 
contrbuting to a situation of continued deterioration
in the condition of the banking system.  The                                 alMs
xposures of the existing 30 banks to problem loans  a     e   e i |
and to doubtfu guarantees is estimated to have
amounted to about SfT 180 billion at the end of
1992 (rable 10). These estimates are based on the   ....
banks' preliminary 1992 finncial statements, and     _
suggest that the banking system  would require
addition&l provisions of approximately SIT 107    E      t                 s  2      $
billion in order to cover potential losses from loans  IOiNsu WGuaan-     ~
and guarantees. In addition, the banking system had          m  
claims against NBY of about SIT 126 billion, of
wbich SIT 57 billion counterbalance pre-199
foreign currency deposits of Slovene cizens which       
have not yet been paid out by the banks (para. 64)   . ..... 0 .g.1  - 
These exposures compare with a book vaue of       iacl.ttie.....,..
equity in the banking system of Sff 96 billion at
end-1992.
Table 11
62.   Taken as a whole, the bankidng system was
therefore technically insolvent. The losses are main-
ly concentrated, however, in three insolvent LS.~...~*
banks: LBdd, Kreditna Banka Maribor (RBM) and
Kreditn  Banka Nova Gorica (KBNG).   As of... 
December 1992, these bank had a total negative net
worth of SIT 65 bfiion, after adjustment for.~
potential portfolio losses of about SIT 88 billion.  ~ ~
Tbis excludes claims against NBY of SIT 70 billion
(of which SIT 30 bIlion are couterbalanced by pre-             ..
199 foreign currency deposits). All three. banks
faced severe liquidity problems in 199 and have                                t
been supported by BOS liquidity credits at market               ...
rates (para. 14). In aggregate, the three banks            ~                       
represen 83 % of the LBS exposure to problem 
loans and doubtfigul rnte, which Itself accounts     ~.
for about 94% of the banking sector's expoure to                  ......
such risks (Table 11).                                    ........
63.    Ihe eimat" for the remaining 27 banks     f                      5
indicate an agrgate capital adequac ratio (CAR)
of about 17%. However, this figure is an over
estmate because of the following: About 92% of the equity of the banks consists of reserves geneated
from revaluation of the bank' fixed assets (31%) and of their net position in montary assets (61%).
Following intenational stadards, 50% of the reauation of fixed assets should be excluded from equity
for the purrs of CAR calculatons. In the absence of stringent interest suspension rules and bank
practices which should prevent capitalization of unpaid interest on classified loans, the reserves generated



21
by the revaluation of the bank' net position in monetary assets are also overstated. Moreover, the
weights applied for risk asses In the curret Slovene regulations differ substnially from inteana
accountg standards ([AS). Taking Into account these factors, it is estimated that the aggregat CAR of
the above 27 banks is about 4%. Pending extemal audits of the end-1992 accounts, three of the 27
appear to have a CAR below the 4% level.
64.   The other major crrent financial problem of the commercial banks stems from claims aginst
the NBY relatng to foreign curency deposits of households. In former Yugoslavia, bank were obliged
to redeposit with NBY the foreign exchange deposits of households. The major share of these deposits
have been effectively frozen, and the banks have been under tremendous pressure by depositors to repay
their obligations. The State of Slovenia has taken over the responsibility of negotiating for the recvery
of claims against NBY, and will be providing means to enable to banks to compensate depositors (para.
115).
65.   The Govenment has recognized that it was imperative to put a program in place to stem the
losses, restructure, and set the banks on a course which will enable them to become profitoble while
charging reasonable interest rates. It also recognizes that the program will not succeed unless it is
combined with a solution to problems arising from enterpnse ownership of the banks, from the
dominance of the LBS group of banks and the regional segmentation and dearth of compettion in the
banking sector, and uniesb it is linked with a program for reform of the Slovene enterprise sector.



22
IV. The Adusent and Reform Prog
66. The Government and the Bank of Slovenia have designed and started to implement a program of
reforms which is Internally consistent and addresses the deep-rooted sructural problems In the Slovene
economy. The reform of the enterprise and banking sectors is at the core of this program. The program
envisages that these fundamental microeconomic reforms be lmplemente ! under a stable macroeconomic
framework which includes, i=    a, the maintenance of an adequate social safety net and the
establishment of supportive fiscal and incomes policies. The reform program, which has been developed
in cooperation with the Bank and the IMF and would be supported by the proposed EFSAL, is presented
in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2). The main policy actions are summarized in the
Matrix of Key Actions (Annex 3). Ihe program is described in detail in the following paragraphs of this
section of the report.
A.    The Mlacroeconomic Framework
An Overview of Macroeconomic Policies for the Short- and Long-Runs
67.   The macroeconomic framework for Slovenia must meet three objectives. First, it must be
supportive of the microeconomic reforms and its long-run goals. Second, it must consolidathe gains
achieved by the stabilization program of October 1991. Finally, it should also soften the impact of
adverse external shocks on aggregate demand and output, and possibly contribute to some recovery of
activity in the short-rn. In order to meet these three conditions, the Government will implement a
carefully designed package of fiscal, incomes and monetary policies, in which fiscal policy will play a
particularly important role.
68.   Fiscal policy will play a central role because it is the only policy instument that can contribute
simultaneously to the three objectives, although that will also require significant changes in the fiscal
policy stance over time. The required fiscal policy support will involve essentially a shift towards a
moderate fiscal deficit in the short-run, followed by a fiscal contraction in the medium- and long-runs.
More specificaly, in the short-run, fiscal policy must provide critical financial suppert to bank and
enterprise restrucuring. Ihis support will permit the establishment of sound microeconomic foundations,
eliminate the increasing pressures on the Bank of Slovenia, and thus contribute to the consolidation of
the stabilization program. It will involve increased fiscal expenditures (from 47% to 49% of GDP) under
nearly stable revenues (at 47% of GDP), and thus also result in a deficit-of around 2% of GDP in 1993
and 1994. This fiscal expasion will be financed by debt issues and is expected to provide some stmulus
to the depressed economic activity in the short-run.
69.   The enisaged increase in fiscal expenditures is not likely to cause a crowding out of private
expenditures, even considering that the fiscal deficit will be financed by debt Issues. This is because the
very high real lending rates have been due essentially to financial distress and the resulting high
intermediation spreads, rather than to excessive real deposit rates-as mentioned before, real lending rates
are three times higher than real deposit rates. The fiscal-financed bank restructring program will help
remove the sources of distress, allow a significant reduction in intermediation spreads and real lending
rates, and actually encourage some private spending. Therefore, whereas no major increases in enterprise
investment are expected before the socially-owned enterprises are privatized, the short run fiscal stn
is consistent with the overall reform program, and with Slovenia's present macroeconomic situation. in



23
fact, the positive impact of a debt-financed fiscal deficit on economic actvity may be the only way to
prevent a more pronounced decline In output, as enterprise investment is not likely to increase
significandy in 1993, and an immediate export-led recovery is also unlikely, given the situation in the
Balkans and the current recession in Western Europe.
70.   In the medium and long runs, fiscal policy should acquire a different orientation. Although fiscal
support to enterprise and bank restruchuing will continue in the medium run, economic activity will then
hopefully be driven by increased exports and investments, eliminating the need for a fiscal stimulus.
Also, the maintenance of fiscal pressures in the presence of increasing investment could lead to undue
pressures in the current account and possible financing problems. Therefore, the medium term fiscal
stance should involve a reduction of the deficit, and be combined with a reduction of the levels of both
revenues and expenditures to around 44% of GDP. These levels of revenues and expenditures are closer
to the average in the EC, although still higher than in countries with a similar per capita income.
Furthermore, the medium run reduction in the level of revenues and expenditures is expected to be
achieved partly from a simultaneous reduction in the heavy payroll taxes and pension and health
expenditures (paras. 76-80).
71.   It must be stressed that the new and central role assigned to fiscal policy implies a significant
departure from past fiscal practices. Until 1992, the government budget was usually shielded from
enterprise and bank losses, but these losses invariably caused a quasi-fiscal deficit in the central bank and
a loss of monetary control. Therefore, although the govemment budget wfll shift into a deficit for the
first time, this implies an improvement over the present sitution, as the fiscal support to the reform
program will enable the elimination of microeconomic deficits at their source, and allow much greater
control over the future conduct of monetary policy. Ihe fiscal deficit of 2% of GDP which is envisaged
for 1993 and 1994 is moderate, considering that it will permit the elimination of microeconomic losses
of larger magnitude, and open room for a fdmen  transfomation of Slovenia's economy.
72.   It is expected tha the short run fiscal deficit and the recovery of red wages during 1992 wil
result in an increase in domestic spending and a decline in the current account surplus during 1993.
Some decline in the current account is warranted, as the very large 1992 current account suirplus was
generated partly by very tight demand policies at also contribeutd to the severe output decline, and
could only be justified under a siuation of high inflation and critically low foreign reserves, such as the
one experienced by Slovenia after independence. However, it is essent  to prevent fiuther increases in
wages, as this could lead to an excessive increase in consumption and a rapid erosion of the current
account surplus in the short-run, which could cause exteal fincing problems during the critical period
of invesmet recovery. To avoid this outcome, the Govement will maintain a comprehensive incomes
policy to guide wages in the non-private sector during the whole period of transition. Incomes policy will
be particularly important in the seoond half of 1993 and in early 1994, as many entprses may still
remain under social ownership during this period.
73.   The prompt implemetation of appropriate fiscal and incomes policies is the only way to eliminate
microeconomic imbalances and the increasing difficulties experienced by BOS in mainining monetary
control. Provided that the potena sources of pressure for monetary expansion are removed, the BOS
should be able to maintain the policies that have led to the impressive reduction of inflation during 1992.
Ihereafter, the BOS should be able to keep iatio below 25% during 1993, and to decrease it further
during 1994.



24
Fscal Poliy
74.   The budgetary expenditure        Mi 1                                            E
required for the implementation 3f the  _     K                  .
Government's economic reforms isa?BA  ~H~                           75414,   5
estimated to increase from 2.1% of    ,                              j49    30 $$
GDP in 1992, to 4.2% of GDP in
1993 and 5.4% of GDP in 1994, as                                          .       S 4
shown in Table 9 (Annex 1 Tables-   :      iR,                         
5 provide more detailed breakdown of                 NY0                  4 *~#
budgetary support for the reforms).      Sods-No       ingroa       0    0     1
ITese estimates imply  additional      ..         Refo              0    12  :9   *9
fiscal support to the reforms of more 
than 2% of GDP in 1993, and more 
than 3% of GDP in 1994, relative to      OiigSco  e utNt . 0
199. The increased expenditures are                                      0      1 #
mostly related to the sercing of                       3
interest on the Government bonds that  
will be issued to support bank and                     to           0
enterprise restrucring.  However,           _                                    X .
theenvisagedincrasein expenditures        i
also includes additional fiscal support
to the socWia safety net during 1993
and 1994. As shown in Table 12, the
increased  fiscal support to  the 2       i
restrucring program is the major                                .....
factor driving total expenditures to ,
49. 1% of GDP in 1993, and leading 
to a fis caldeficit of around 2% of                 E                             i 9
GDP during 1993 and 1994. The         n ndau4*011m  1b riott
1993 budget, which was recenty              
adopted, limits the general budget       ,             w         8
deficit to at most 2%  of GDP,                       C
provides overall support to the
refbrms of at least 4.2% of GDP, and contains minimum support of 0.8% of GDP for bank restructing,
1.2% of GDP for enterprise restructuring, and 2.1% of GDP for the social safety net. Adoption of a
1994 budget also limiting the general budget deficit to at most 2% of GDP, providing overall support to
the reforms of at least 5.4% of GDP, and containing minimum support of 2.3% of GDP for bank
restructuring, 0.9% of GDP for enterprise restructuring, and 2.2% of GDP for the social safety net is
a condition of second tmnche rdease of this loan.
75.   The Government plans to finance the projected deficits through the issue of Govement
obligations and without recourse to central bank credits. These debt issues imply some additional increase
in the stock of domestic debt, estimated at 23% of GDP after the initial issue of Government bonds in
support of the banking and enterprise reforms. Clearly, the additional issues of bonds in the domestic
financial system will be partly used to pay interest on the inital bonds issued to launch the entetprise and
banking reforms. This strategy should not imply excessive pressure on the domestic financial system,
given the recent improvement in the mobilization of financial resources (Figure 1) and the scope for a



25
significant recovery of the demand for financial assets. Indeed, despite recent improvemes, the ratio
of M2 to GDP is stil low-24% in 1992-suggesting the scope for further improvements in mobfliion
performance. However, the Government must improve the institutional arrangements needed for regular
issues of securities. Under the technical assistance component of this loan, about US$0.1 million would
be provided for consultants to help develop primary and secondary markets for public sector securities.
This loan will contribute to the financing of the deficit and reduce somewhat the need for domestic debt
financing, precisely in the period where money and capital markets are being strengthened.
76.   As mentioned previously, in the medium run the Government intends not only to reduce the
deficit, but also to combine it with a reduction of both fiscal revenues and expenditures to levels that are
more compatible with the objective of expanding the role of the private sector. The envisaged reduction
of revenues and expenditures to 44% of GDP is expected to be nearly completed by 1997, and implies
that expenditures will be reduced at a faster pace. Moreover, such a contraction should be associated
with a reduction in pension and health expenditures, as these are among the expenditures items that have
been growing most rapidly. Adoption of a budget reducing genera! expenditures and revenues by at least
1% of GDP in 1994 is a condition of second tranche release of this loan. Presentation of the 1994
budget memorandum indicating the necessary medium-run support to the reforms, a further reduction of
general expenditures and revenues, and a reduction of the deficit to at most 1.5% of GDP in 1995 will
be an indicator of continuing progress under the EFSAL program.
77.   The ratio of pensionbenefitsto GDP increased from 8% inthe late 1980s to almost 13% in 1992.
Pension benefits in Slovenia are already significandy higher than in countries with similar per capita
income and are also higher than the EC average, and would increase to levels above 14% of GDP in
1993 in the absence of correetive actions. In addition to natural population ageing, pension expenditures
have escalated because of the rapid increase in early retirees under a very generous pension scheme,
which includes high replacement rates and a generous computation of the pensionable wage. Moreover,
the contributions that have been required to finance pension and health expenditures, and unemployment
compensation, have reached excessive levels, amounting together to almost 50% of gross wages. Ihese
heavy contributions tend to discourage employment, the development of small private enterprises, and
may induce some enterprises to shift to the underground economy. The significant redistribution of
resources implied by the present pay-as-you-go system is probably also having a detrimental impact on
national savings. Ihe maintenance of the present policies would, therefore, impair the prospects for
higher growth of output and employment in the medium and long runs.
78.   In order to avoid a fiuther escalation of pension expenditures during 1993, the Government has
recendy l:mited the average full pension to a maxmum of 85%, insead of the former minimn of 85%
of the average wage. The Government has also limited the adjustment of pensions to the growth of wages
two months before, abandoning the former practice of adding the estimated growth of wages in the
previous month (a practice introduced during the period of hypermation). During the second half of
1993, the Government will broaden the base for the adjustment of pensions to include all average
unemployment benefits, average earnings of the self employed, and average agricultura wages. ThiS
measure should also lead to some reduction in the average pension, as these average eamings are expected
to grow less than the average wage. The measures already adopted should enable the Goverment to
meet its commitment to limit the ratio of pension expenditures to GDP to at most 13.5% in 1993. It is
expected hat the measure to be adopted in the second half of 1993 should result in a ratio of pension
expenditures to GDP below that target.



26
79.   A fiuther reduction of pension expenditures to at most 12.5% of GDP in 1994 is a conion of
second granche release of this loan. In order to achieve this result, the Government intens to: (i)
accelerate the ongoing increae in the retirement age initiated in 1992. Specifically, the Govenmen
inends to increase the retirement age by one year (instead of a half year) each year for both men and
women; (ii) increase the retirement age of women so as to reduce the difference between men and women
from five to three years; and (-di) broaden the assessment period for the calculation of the pension base
from the ten best yeas to the twenty best years. This latter measure is epetd to be introduced for both
new and existing pensioners, dtw  tightening the link between contibutions and benefits for all
pensioners. If these measures prove insufficient to reduce the ratio of pension expenditures to GDP to
the target, the Goverment will review the rules guiding the adjustment of pensions so as to reach the
target. Submissionto Parliament of revised pension legislation and identification, if necessary, of changes
in indexation ndes or alternative measures required to reduce pension expenditures to the 1994 target are
also conditions of second *wxhe rlese of this loan.
80.   Together with Government plans to expand the role of voluntary health insurance during 1994,
these measures should result in a decrease in fiscal expenditures of almost 3% of GDP during 1994 and
1995, thus contributing significanty to the medium term fiscal adjustme. Moreover, the reduction in
pension and health etpenditures is expected to be combined with a shift of non-earnings related
expenditures from the pension fund to the central budget (and their financing through other taxes), so as
to allow a reduction in the total of contribution rates from the present 49% to at most 42% in 1995.
Presentaion of a revenue-neutral pln to shift non-eanings related expenditures from the pension fimd
to the central budget will be an indicator of continuing progress under the EFSAL program. At the same
time, the Government understands ihat the pension and health systm  may need more fiundamenta
reforms, and intends to inae   a comprehensive evaluation of the two syms in 1993, with the support
of extn  tecnical asistnce. About US$0.2 million woud be prov   under the techical assistance
component of this loan to carry out the study and initate an action program for medium-term reform of
the pension system. Completion of a study for comprehensive pension reform is a condition of second
tandhe reese of this loan.
Incomes Poliy
81.   Wages in Slovenia have been regulated by collective agreements and special legiation.
Collective agreements within the enterprs sector involve wage negoiations between trade unions and
the chamber of commerce (the representaive of enterprise managers). In the public sector, collective
agreements are reached hrough negotiations between the trade unions and the Government. Although
collective agreements are considered the primary intument for the regulation of wages, the Governme
has been sometimes forced to introduce special legislation, in the absence of agreements or when the
collective agreemen  result in a level of wages incompatible with macroeconomic equilibrium. As
mentioned before, in mid-1991, the Government was forced to overrle previous agreements and impose
stringent restrictions on wages In order to control inflton. The adoption of this law led to a significant
decline in real wages between August 1991 and February 1992, and contributed significanly to the
success of the stabilizaon progrm.
82. Ihe expiration of the wage intervention law in February 1992 occurred in the absence of new
collective agreements, and resulted in subsntial wage incmaes durng 1992: more ta 30% in real
tems and 40% in US dollars. Such wage pressures were initiated in the enterprise sector but spiRled over
to the public sector, due to previous colleive agreements linking wages in the two sectors. in order to
countea such wage pressur, the Goverment was again forced to Introduce legiation in early 1993,



27
dellnking wages in the two ectors indefinitely, freezing wages In the public sector until May 1993,
reversing some of the wage increases in the enterprise sector, and subjecting wages in the enterprise
sectDr to an extremely restrictive Indexation scheme (amounting practically to a wage freeze) until June
1993. These corrective actions should lead to a decline in wages measured in real US doUars to levels
somewhat below their historical average by mid-1993. The Government is aware of the need to condnue
restraining wages after mid-1993 in order to safeguard the stabilization program and the competitiveness
of exports.
83.   The Government is committed to the maintenance of a resticive wage policy after the expiration
of the current wage law. This policy will be implemented through collective agreements and supportive
legislation, and will include five, mutually reinforcing, components: (i) the permanent severance of direct
legal linkges between wages in the two secors; (ii) the prevention of wage increases immediately after
the expiration of the present law; (iii) the subjection of wages in both sectors to a partial indexation
scheme, through which wages in both sectors are not adjusted if the monthly rate of inflation Is less than
3%, and are only partially adjusted if inflation exceeds that level. Ihe Goverment will monitor the
changes in the average wage to verify compliance with these rules; (iv) the reimposition of wage
restrictions on both sectors through new legislation, if no satisfactory progress is made in concluding new
collective agreements, or if enterprises do not comply with the agreements; and (v) additional restrictions
on wages for enterprises that are iliquid, or have tax arrears, or generate losses.
84.   New collective agreements with enterprise and public sector employees have been ratified.5 The
maintce and satisfactory implementation of the wage policy described above, if necessary through
the adoption of special legislation, is a condition of a second trawhe idase of this loan.
Moneay Polky
85.   Since the introduction of the Tolar in October 1991, the BOS has succeeded in maintning
monetary control, and prevening a significant appreciation of the real exhange rate, despite the
significant net inflows of foreign exchange. The BOS achieved this impressive result through a variety
of isumments, including the sale of foreign exchange bills with atrctve interest rates to exporters and
commercial banks. The intensive recourse to this instrument has not resulted in a loss to the BOS, as
it has been able to place the foreign exchange absorbed through the sales of these bills into foreign assets
abroad earning equivalent yields. However, it is doubtfdl whether the BOS will be able to contn  to
rely on this instument in the face of increasing foreign exchange inflows without incurring excessive
costs. As previously mentioned, the BOS is also facing an increasing situation of bank illiquidity
triggered by the problem of non-performing loans. The amount of liquidky loans provided by the BOS
has increased substantially, and could result in a loss of monetary control.
86.   The full implemtion of the fiscal and hcomes policies descrbed above are expected to relieve
these increasing pressures on the BOS and allow it to continue to restrain monetary expansion and avoid
an exchange rate appreciation. For one, the refbrms will improve bank liquidity and reduce the pressure
on the BOS to extend liquidity loans. In addition, the moderate fiscal deficit which is envisaged for 1993
and 1994 is expected to reduce somewhat the current account surplus and the pressure of large foreign
S  Th collectve agreenmn  establish a very resrctive indexation sceme, though wbich wage ar not
adjusted if the monty rte of inflation is below 3%, and ae adjusted by 70% of the excess over 3% if
inflaton exceeds this leveL



28
exchange ilows on monetary policy and the exdchage rate.  Finaly, the Impltemation of a
coprehensive wage policy will prevent the emergence of excessive wage pressures and potei
demands on the BOS. The Government's package of macroeconomic policies Is thus consiset wit a
restrictive monetary policy and the reduction of Inflation to lower leels. Under the proposed loan, the
Governmt Intends to maintin inflation below 25% during 1993 and to reduce it further during 1994.
Ile progress already achieved so far makes such targets feasible.
87.   Agreement on a medium tem macroeconomic framework filly consistent with the objectives of
the microeconomic reforms has been reached. Satisfictory compliance with the macroeconomic
famework Is a condition of second tranche redease of this loan.
B.    Enterprie Sector Reform
Overall Objecies
88.   The Government has recognized that the current structre of owneship and goverance in
socially-owned, mixed, and statowned enterpises has sustantially impeded the response of the
enterprises to the new inceives environment. It therefore has set a high priority on a program which
aims to: Q) prvatize all enterprises In Industry, trade and services (except in a limited number of
commercial public services); (ii) reform the system of governance and regaion of stat-owned
e;taprism; and (di) frther develop the legal and insttutonal framework for enterprise reform with a
view to acceleraing privat sector developm   and fostering competition. Since tota loss  of non-
private enprises amounted to as much as 12% of GDP in 1992, the reform program also includes
special initaves that, even In advance of privatization, aim to contain and subsequently reduce these
loss.
Ihe New P rvadaton Program
89.   The Law on Ownefship D     matou. Because of an intnse political debate on the desirable
approah(es) to privtzing so y-owned entetprises and te resulting delay In approving privazaion
legislton, Slovenia has to date adhieved only relatively modest progress in the sale of social property,
corporatiation of socially-owned enterprises, and establishment of joint ventures with majority privat
ownership, ITis major gap can now be bridged following adoption by Parliament, on November II,
1992, of a new privatization law, the 'Law on Ownership Transformationi'. Ihis new privadzation law
was amended on June 2, 1993. The law safeguards the interets of preious owners and addreses
restution issues without inhibiting the process of transfrmation. Six monts has been allowed to
prepare he neesary meh       and regulaions, and the law became effective on June 6, 1993. This
law will govern the ownership tranformaon of about 2,700 medium and large Slovene enterprises.
90.   Trasomat  under the law will result fist in the conversion of socially-owned enterprises into
shareholding companies with a revalued capital base. Twenty perent of the shares of each entepris
wDI be reserved for awcisition by employees using ownership certficat. A further 40% of the sae
will be allocated for se throuh employee purchases, public tende, and public auction and salo. For
these shares, employees will be given the right of first refusal, with a 50% discount on the price of the
shaes. Th remaiing 40% will be allocated as follows: 10% to the Compensation Fund, 10% to the
Pension Fund, and 20% to the Development Fund (the Fund) whi will distribute ths share among
Special lvestment Funds. The law explicidy allows the sale of a company in its entirety, or the sale of



29
the controlling interest in a company. Ihe Compensation Fund, Pension Fund, and Special Investm
Funds will be compenated In cash from the proceeds of such sales.
91.   For the benefit of the population at large, the law provides for the Isuance of ownership
cerdficates (equivalent in total value to 40% of the total socal capital of enterprises) for free distribution
among all cizens of Slovenia. The non-trasferable certificates will have a nominal value ranging from
SIT 100,000 to SrI 400,000 and will be distributed according to age, with those who are under 18 years
of age receing certificate valued at the bottom of the range and those who are over 48 receiving
certificates valued at the top of the range. Citizens will be able to use their certificates to buy shares of
Special Investment Funds, or the shares of companies offered through public sale. The employees of an
enterprise will have the additional option of using their certificates to purchase the shares reserved for
them. Regulations for the distibution and use of ownership certificates wil be adopted by September
30, 1993.
92.   In the first insance, the law relies on the enterprises to initiate their transformation, under
guidance and with monitoring by the Privatization Agency (the Agency). Given the risk that the workers'
councils may delay this transformation, the law decrees that all entepises covered must voluntarily have
completed the initia transformation by June 6, 1994-12 months after the date of effectiveness of the law.
After this date, the tnsion rights of the enterprise will be transferred to the Agency. The
Governmen intends to monitor the progress of ese transfowrmaions and, if necessary, to take prompt
action to modify the legislation to ensure rapid and efective transfer of controlling interest In the
enterprises to private owners. Privadzation of 400 socially-owned enterprises, accounting for 20% of
the value added contution of all enterprises subject to the Law on Ownehip Transformation, is a
condition of second t,vuwe  lease of this loan.
93.   Inst onal SiMpon. The Privatization Agency and the Development Fund will be the principal
sutions in charge of impl ion of this program. These institutions were established in December
1990, in accordance with a 1989 Yugoslav law, and have subsequentdy gained valuable experience in
prvatzation.  The Agency will be responsible for setng the guidelines and approval of the
transformation program  submtted by eeprises and foe valuation of the enteprises in cases where
required. The Pund is uharged with the management and disposa of the shes it acquires during the
process of transfoion. Pre regulaio  provide that the liquid assets andthe priva ionrevenues
of the und can be used, in compliance with special laws, for: recapiizing banks; export proraotion
tchnological development and ecological improvement; and development of smal businesses.
94.   The two agencies have very competent managemert and are governed by boards including high
level Goverme  officials and highly regarded independent professionals. So far, they have ufiled
their mandates effecdively. There is, however, reason for conern about the expected increase in the
volume and scope of their responsibilities. Both agencies are benefiting from technical assistce from
the EC, EBRD and other sources. The Government has confirmed ta it will contimne to support these
agencies and facilitate their access to thical assistance. To this end, the loan will provide about
US$1.1 milion to help the Prvatzation Agency design and implement different pivatization procedure,
including the design and implentaton of the sale of one or two enterprises by initial public offerns
which would serve as examples for fiture privatizaions by this process. At present, the PFnd is
fiacig its tehnical assistance needs from its own resources.
95.   Specdal Devlent Fwd Program.  While privatization is the cena  theme of the
Govrmet's program  for enterpise reform, the Goverment has taken a specia iniative in advance



30
of the passage of the new law in order to respond more quicldy to the problems of distressed socially-
owned enterprises and to aelerate their privtzation or liquidation. In August 1992, the Goverm
resolved that socially-owned enterprises in need of assistance be invited to particpate, on a voluntay
basis, in a short term restrucuring program to be managed by a council comprising reprntatves of
the Ministry of Economic Activities (MOEA), the Ministry of Labor, Family, and Social Affa (MOL),
the Bank Rehablitation Agency, the Privatiation Agency and the Development Fund. Th1e conditions
for participation in the program Included, j=  ala, submission of a business plan and a resolution by
the enterprise to transform into a commercial company owned by the Development Fund. Over 200
applications were received and, after some initial evaluation, 96 enterprises with a combined loss of about
SfT 35 billion during 1992, and a total employment of 55,000, joined the program. Over 90% of
participadng enterprises are loss-makers, and their aggregate over-employment is estimated at 20%.
96. The social capital of the participating enterprises has been transferred to the Fund, and each
enterprise has been transformed into a joint-stock company. Each company is governed by a three-
member board appointed by the Fund, the Agency and the company's major creditor bank. For each of
the entrise in this special program, the Fund has with the assistance of domestic consultants: 0)
identified non-viable enterprises which would be liquidated; and (ii) developed prvaitzon/restrucuing
programs (including debt and labor restructuring) for the viable enterprises. Ihe MOL has been closely
involved in assessing the labor rationalization programs and providing funding for their impl e
The Fund has also made significant progress in implementing these programs: 11 companies are in
bankruptcy and an additional 6 wll be placed in this procedure shordy; the debt of 50 entepris has
been rescheduled based on agreements reached with their creditors; 11 companies have been sold and
procedureslnegotations for sale of another 25 are quite advanced. Ihe Fund expects to have privaized
or liquidated 50% of this group of companies by end-1993. Ihe implementaton of the privatzaton
programs for these entprs  wfll help meet the target number of enteprise privadzations which is a
condition of second tranche release (para. 92).
The Programfor Skate Enprises
97.   The Government has indicated its int  to restrict State ownsip of enterprises to those enged
in electric power generation, transmission and distribution; gas distrtion; the railroad subsector road
constuction and maintce; sea and air ports; telecommunication; post  services; and waer
distribution and other municipal public services. In these limited number of cases, the Government needs
to transform enterprises which are currenly socially-owned into state-owned enterrises, in order to
ensure proper exercise of the ownership function and the required oversight of their operations. A Law
on Commercial Public Services was adopted on June 2, 1993, and provides the legal underpining for
conversion of the concerned enterprises to State ownsip. Conversion of all socally-owned entepise
in the above subsectors is a condition of second rtwdwe rsese of this loan.
98.   Seowned enterprises and stateowned shares in mixed enterpries in all other productive and
commercial services sectors should be privatized rapidly. However, given the natre and relative
unattractiveness of these enterprises to privat owners, this could take some time. The Goverment will
prepare a program for privatization of the current state-owned enterpnses by mid-1994 which aims to
privatize 30% of state-owned entprises in ifts first year, and the balance in the second year. Since the
Law on Ownership Transfonnation excludes privatizaon of State capital, the shares of the State in
enterprses wit mixed ownership wil be divest  at the time of prvatzation of the social capital In these
enterprises.



31
99.   The Government will also reform and improve the system of govence of stt-owned
enterprises and separate the Governmenets ownership fiunDon from its policy and regulatry roles. To
tis end, t has recenty established a Stt Trsury and will consolidae State ownesp in this Treasry.
State-owned enterprises would be incorpoaed under the Company Law which was also adopted by
Parliament on June 2, 1993 and would be run as profit-making cotporations. Ihe principles governing
the operation of the state-owned companies and the requirements relating to the accountability of these
companies are being elaborated. The Government will ensure hat gthe majority of the members of the
boards of directors be independent, non-governmental professionals of high standing in the community.
Establishment of an appropriate governance structure including designation of boards of directors for
state-owned enterprises and continued strengthening of the treasury function is a condition of second
trache release of this loan.
100.  Independent regulatory systems for the designated subsectors are also to be established.
Submission to Parliament of specific laws for the energy, telecommunication, and railway subsectors
which would, inter-alia, govern the organiztion and define the regulatory frmework for these
subsectors, and specify those activities which will be privatized in the medium term are conditions of
second reche re  of this loan.
101.  Amaong the 100 largest loss-making enerprises ther are 19 statowned enterprises, which belong
to the steel, power and railways subsectors and account for approximately 56% of the group's losses.
Ihe Government intends to develop medium-term restucturing programs for these subsectors which
would aim at reducing enterprise lose by meaures that include financial and organizational
restuctuing, closr of non-viable lines and units, materia and energy efficiency improvemens,
ecological enhment and labor reduction. For the steel subsector, for which private investors have
not been foud despite considerable effort, the program has already been developed anZ will be
implemeaned over the net 2-3 years. The Government has substiuted State bonds for the debts of the
stee   tprs  to three LBS banks. Ihis operation has substantially improved the condition of the
recipient banks. Satisfactory implementation of the steel restruing program, adjusted as necessary
to stem losses in the steel subsector, is a condition of second twwhe rekase of this loan.
102.  Both the power and the railway enterprises continue to incur substantial losses. Controlled prices
are the main reason for the losses in the power subsector. A study is being undertaken in conjunction
with an EBRD-suported power project to establish an appropriate electricity tariff structure. Prior to
the conclusion of this study, the Government would be adjusting prices periodically with a view to
stemmg losses of power enterprises. A plan for pnce adjustments has reetly been adopted and
studies aimed at developing a long term basis for regulating power prices have been inated.
Implementation of this plan, including fiuther adjustments as necessay, and finalization of propos for
tre regulation of power prices are conditions of second wrhe rlase of this loan.
103.  EBRD is also supporting a railway project which will help restructre this subsector. To this end,
a restructuring study wfll be undertaken during 1993 with asistance from a West  European railway
company. Satisfcry progress in iniiating the restrucuring of this subsector has been achieved.
Completion of the study and progress in the implemenation of the complete restructuring program are
onditions of second tmxwle re      of tis loan.



32
The Private Sector Development Prograwn
104.  Private enterprises enjoy a favorable environment due to existing enterprise, foreigl investmet,
and intellectual property laws in Slovenia, as is evident by the rapid increase in private secwr activity
during the 1991-1992 period Crable 7). The Government recognizes however that, despite this impressive
progress, additional legal reforms and strengthening of the regulatory framework are essential to fiurher
improve the environment for private entesprise developmen.
105.  As mentioned previously, the Parliament has recently adopted a new Companies Law and a Law
on Public Commercial Services. A new Competition Law was adopted on April 2, 1993. Furthermore,
the Government has submitted to Parliament a Law on Notarial Services, a Law on Audidng and a new
draft legislation on bankruptcy which introduces chapter-Il style reorganization as an option in parallel
with liquidation. These laws are expected to be adopted in September 1993. The Govement also
intends to build up the capacity of the court system to deal with the bankruptcy and liquidation cam.
Moreover, the Government is in the process of reviewing the current legal framework for secured
transactions, and plans to take steps to modernize the system of real estate and mortge regisaon in
order to provide the proper underpinnings for a secure and predictable system of collateral. The
registion of security interests on movables is addressed by the Law on Notaral Services. Ihe proposed
loan includes a provision of about US$0.4 million to initiate improvement in this legisaton, impove
the implementation capacity of bankruptcy proceedings and provide advice on other specific laws as
appropriate.
106.  In addition, the Government intends to submit to Parliament new updated Securites Market
Legiation (prepared wi assistance from IFC). The Govenment also intends, during 1993, to submit
to Parliament a new Law on Mutua and Investment Funds. The Seurities and Exchange Commission
wil be established as an independent regulatory body, with considerably enhanced capacity to superis
the investment market, including the activities of the Stock Exchange. Following enactm   of the
Companies and Auditing laws, new accounting standards will be adopted.
107.  In addition to the foregoing measures, in order to support the privatization process and the
emerging private sector in industry, the Govenmet has completed a pilot program of in-depti studies
in four subsectors. These studies have assessed the strengths and weaknesses of the subsects, compared
their competitiveness vis-a-vis similar subsectors in other market economies, and provided enterprises
with informaion on technological, ecological and manageria developments in Wester countries. The
results of this pilot progrm have been successful and the prograw wfll be extended to other branches of
industry. In addition, tehical assisuce (about US$0.3 mfllion) will be provided under this loan to
assist the MOEA ([ndusty and Energy) develop a coherent strategy for Industrial development, and to
begin inplemention of the most ritcal actions envisaged under this strategy.
C.    1Bakn Sedor 1Morm
The Ban Resr cturing Program
108. Objecaives and Scope. The Government's program for refirm of the banking sector aims at
generating an immediat reduction in the excessively high intermediation spreads and real lending rates
which have burdened enerprises and discouraged investme  atvity. At the same time, it alms at
providig the drnivg force for the restructng and privatzatio of the enterprise sector. I cais the
links between bank owners and borrowers and aims at enhancing competiion in the banking sector and



33
at privazing the banks at the earliest opportnity. In order to support these changes, and help ensure
the stability and enhace the efficiency of the banicng system, the program wiM improve prudenti
regulatios, bolster the supervisory capabilities of the Bank of Slovenia, and attract ntratona Invest-
ment and know-how into the banking sector.
109. The Slovene authorities have initiated a Bank Restructuring Program which includes two principal
components. The first component involves the rehabilitation of insolvent or seriously undercapitalized
banks. The second component involves the exchange of claims against the NBY with bonds issued by
the Republic of Slovenia to enable the banks to compensate the foreign currency deposits of households.
110.  FZrst Component. Under the first component of the program, the authorities have initiated the
rehabilitation process for the three banks in the LBS group (LBdd, KBM, and KBNG) which have been
determined to be insolvent, in accordance with the Law on Rehabilitation of the Banks (para. 134). A
law authorizing the issuae of DM 2.2 billon of bonds for this component of the program was approved
by Parliament on November 26, 1992.
111.  LBdd and KBM together account for about 57% and 61% of the total assets and total problem
risk exposures of the banldng system. The rehabilitation programs for these two banb were introduced
through decrees by the Bank of Slovenia which set out the framework fot the rehabilitation process. These
decrees together have provided for write-off of about SfT 19 billion (DM 246 million) of estimated 1992
losses agains the two banks' existng capital. The banks' remainig net worth of about SIT 42 biSlion
(DM 0.7 billion) has been acquired by the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) in exchange for conversion
of the equity stae of previous bank owners into a subordinated debt of this agency. The decrees also
provide that about SIT 95 billion (DM 1.6 billion) of potential losses be carved out from the two banks
and exchanged with an equivalent amount of BRA bonds guaranteed by the State. In this manner, the
decrees eliminate all the rights of previous owners of the banks, except the right to participate in any
revenues tuat may result from the recovery of the impaired assets carved out by the BRA. The decrees
provide for adjustent of the above amounts based on the results of detailed inventories of the banks'
portfolios and exteal audits of the banks' end-1992 financial satem. The banks' projected financial
statements indicate that anment of a positive cash flow position and a minimum CAR target (para 112)
would require further income support in 1994 equivalent to ta which would be generated from injection
of an additional amount of bonds of at least SIT 90 billion (DM 1.5 billion). The authorities have
decided and made plans to frst offer KBNG for sale to investors who would be interested and able to
acWire and restructure the bank. In case the bank is not sod, it will be rehabilitated by the BRA in a
similar basis as for LBdd and KBM.
112.  It is the intenion of the Government and the Bank of Slovenia to upgrade capital adequacy
rt hrough new amendments to the banking law. A minimum CAR of 8% will be required,
by 1995, based on new regulaons which will be in accordamce with BIS standards (paras 132-133). The
law on Bank Rehabilitation requires the Bank- ' Olovenia to initiate rehabilitation procedures for any bank
with a CAR below 50% of the mini- . m req. iment. Given the new capital adequacy target ankd the
trigger for ination of rehabilitation, uie BRA intervention should ensure that the banks achieve initly
a CAR of at least 4%, and a positive cash flow positiorf. As the restructuring operations when
completed would offset the major share of the banks' problem loans and doubtful guarantees, the banks
Since e CAR calcduation willbe based on modified& risk weights and upgaded accountng andard, de
4% utae is more stringnt tn t 6.5% CAR base on cunt Slove. regaos.



34
should be able to subsequenty build up capital, through profits or sale of shares to private invesors, to
meet the 8% capital adequacy requirement.
113.  Te BRA adopted in mid-June, 1993, plans for the financial restrucuring of LBdd and KBM
which will enable these banks to achieve a CAR of 4%. Achievement of the 4% CAR and positive
operating cash flow for LBdd, KBM, and KBNG (in case that this bank is rehabilitated by the BRA),
satisfactory progress by these banks in the implemeion of institutional development program, and
introduction of ehabilitation procedures for any bank with a CAR below 50% of the minimum
requirement are conditions of second bmnhe reease of this loan.
114.  The implementation of the bank restructring program provides Slovenia a special opportny
to induce changes in the structure of the banking system and promote competition among banks. Ihe
authorities presently believe that Slovenia wMil be well served by a banking system which consists of about
five to seven banks of fairly equal size. They foresee that this goal can be attained by separation from
LBdd and mergers among LBS member banks, and through acquisition of restructured bank by new
entrants into the banking system. LBdd also favors a separation from other member banks that would
clearly allow it to compete in their respective markets. The Government has requested all shareholders
of LBS member banks to decide by June/July 1993 whether they wish their bank to dissociate from LT3dd
or merge with it. The Government and the BOS have already agreed the actions that will be taken, If
necessary, following these meetngs in order to ensure reorganization of the LB System. It is envisaged
that these actions include as a first step acquisition by the BRA of the 51% participation of LBdd in hie
capital of the LBS member banks, in order to speed up such a reorganization. Ihe Govenment is
committed to achieving a banking stucture under which no institution will hold more than 40% of the
system's total deposits. This is a condition of second tdce release.of this loan.
115.  Second Component. Under the second component of the Program, the State will exchange, for
all the banks in the system, a portion of the frozen claims against NBY with State bonds in a total amount
of about S1T 59.4 billion (DMd 976 million). ITis is approximately equivalent to the remaining total
frozen foreign currency deposits in banks in Slovenia. To this end, the Slovene Parliament approved,
in February 1993, a law which authorizes issue of State bonds in the above amount.
116.  The law proposes that these be 30-year bonds denominated in DM and canying an 8% interest
rate payable semianually. It also spells out the options that can be offered to depositors to recover
savings. The banks will in exchange have to offer depositors the following alternatives: (i) recovery of
the deposits in cash out of the banks' own resources; (ii) conversion into 5-year time-deposits payable
in 10 semiaul installments of no less than DM 1,000 each. Ihese deposits would carry an intr
equal to the appropriate discount rate for the currency in which the deposit is denominated; (ii) transer
into a savings deposit wfih a 2.5 year maturity; (iv) a swap of the deposits with State of Slovenia bonds
with a maturity of 10 years, a coupon of 5% and semiaimal pricipal and interest repayments. If
depositors choose tis option, an equivalent amount of 30-year State bonds would be taken out of the total
amount of such bonds received by the banks; and (v) a swap of the deposits with negotiable stock of the
bank.
117.  Ihe first three of the above options could put substntial liquidity pressures on the banks. In
cases where the banks would have to sell outright the 30-year State bonds to generate liquidity, it is very
possible that they will incur sizable losses due to the discount at which these bonds are likely to trade.
However, this risk can be minimized through the development of a Repo market (Lombard mechansm)
to allow the banks to manage their liquidity needs without outright -qle of the bonds. The fourth opdo



35
would lead to some improvement in the banks' net incme, but would reduce the likelihood ha the
depositors can be enticed into becoming bank owners. At the same time, without an adequate incentive
and because of the present uncertainty about the value of the banks prior to rehabilitation, it is not likely
that the depositors will choose to be repaid in bank stocks.
118.  The authorities recoize the liquidity risks inherent in the design of the bonds (and that bank
competition could furter exacerbate the problem). However, they believe that a revision of the recent
law is not urgentdy needed at this time since there have been no significant withdrawals of deposits from
the banking system. Furthermore, so far, depositors accounting for 52% of the frozen deposits have
already selected among the options offered by the Law. Based on the agreements reached between these
depositors and the banks, 12% of total frozen deposits will be converted into 2.5-year savings deposits,
30% into 5-year time-deposits, and 10% into 10-year State bonds. This will substantially lengthen the
maturity profile of the frozen deposits.
119.  In addition, in order to counteract the possible adverse effects of excessive competition by banls
under rehabilitation for new deposits, the BRA has instructedh e management of these banks to develop
policies regarding the maximum terms and conditions to be offered to new depositors. This should
contain the fumding costs of these banks. In parallel, the board of the Bank of Slovenia adopted on May
18, 1993, a decision conring Its intent to support banks in exeme liquidity difficulties. This support
will be provided through mechanisms which will ensure development of a Repo market between the banks
under rehabilitaion and the most liquid banks in the system. These mechanisms will reduce the liquidity
pressures on the banks under rehabilitation while safeguarding overall monetary policy targets. The
Slovene authorities will be monitoring the developments on the compensation of frozen foreign currency
deposits closely. Revision of the terms of the bonds, if necessary, is a condition of second trwhe
,lease of this loan.
120.  Bank Rehab*adon Agency. The Minister of Finance chairs the board of the BRA which also
includes: the director of the agency; two members appointed by the Ministy of Finance; three members
appointed by the Bank of Slovenia; and two indepeadent professionals.
121.  It is perhaps  esable    although the BRA was institted in 1991, there was no active
recruitment of staff for the agency until the adoption by Parliament of the laws providing fincing for
the bank restrturing program. It is also fair to note that there is a good track record of rapid
development of competent agencies (such as the Privatization Agency and the Development Fund) in
Slovenia. However, there is, both in the country and internationally, a scarcity in bank restrucring
skills. Given the central role of the BRA in the success of the bank restructring program, it is
imperative ihat the muthorities continue to make every effort to build up the capacities of the agency in
the shortest possible period. Significant progress has been achieved in the last few months. The agency's
director is now being supported by an advisor with international experience in bank rehabilitation and
debt recovery and expects to complete recruitment of 10 senior officers by end-1993. The agency will
also rely on other long-term external legal and bankdng consultants. In this regard, about US$1.3 million
is provided under the technical assistance component of the loan to strengthen BRA and enable it to
conduct its role in rehabilitation of banks. This will finance expert advice to the BRA on a wide range
of banking actities and will support a special program of institutional strengthening of LBdd as well as
istitutional diagnostics of other banks under BRA control.
122. Formal plans for the operations of the Agency which cover operational guidelines and governing
policies, organization and budget were adopted by the board of the BRA in mid-June 1993.  An



36
updatng, as necesay, of BRA's plans, Including multi-year finmaal require_mnts to support bank
restructuring is a condition of second tnwche  lekawe of this loan.
123.  The agency has appoitd executive managers for the banks currently under rehabilitatn, ad
has decided to nominate a Board of directors for each bank under rehabilitation with the responsibilty
of overseeing the banks' institutional and financial recovery. Appointment of a board for each bank and
approval by these boards of peromance indicators and targets for the recovery of their respective banks
is a condition of second tdh rlease of this loan.
Debt Recoery
124.  Insmudonal wrangements. Debt recovery is the responsibility of the BRA, the banks, and
separate work-out units under the authority of the BRA. This agency has begun to play the central role
in this process. It Is supervising the carve out of problem loans from the banks' portfolios; defining the
responsibilities and design arrgements under which the work out units will operate; and has established
guidelines governing the debt recovery process. The structures of the banks under rehabilitation will be
modified in order to separate the entity charged with the recovery of carved-ut assets. Plans for
implementing such a separation have recently been adopted by the board of the BRA. Statement from
extenal auditors on the financial condition of any entity charged with the responsibility for managing the
carved-out assets wil be an indicator of continuing progress under the EFSAL program. Abou US$0.6
million is provided under the loan to finance experts to assist BRA in the debt recovery process.
125. Carve Ow. lTe decrees for rehabilitation of LBdd and KBM provide that the most adversely
classified debts and guarantees be carved out of each bank up to an amount of SlT 69 billion and S1T 26
billion, respectively. The actal debts to be carved out have been subject to the results of inventories
which are being conducted by the BRA in conjunction with the banks and which are now subsantialy
completed. It is presendy planned that the carve-outs will include 34 large enrprises which account for
about 61% of the to  enterprise problem debts in the banking sector and 29% of the losses of the
hundred largest loss-makig enterprises.
126. The Government has provided to the Bank a mapping of the assets to be carved out against the
largest loss-making and most highly-indebted enterprises which confirms tgat the carve out will remove
a significant percentage of these enterpris from the banks' portfolios. Restrcturing or other
appropriate resolution of at least one third of the debtors and one third of the debts carved out firom the
banks is a condition of second trhwc. release of this loan.
127.  GidelInes. The BRA has recendy issued guidelines governing debt recovery and the restuctur-
ing of the debts which have been carved out from or remain in the banks under rehabilitation. These
guidelines reflect the Governt's intention to use the debt recovery process as a means for acceleaing
the privatization of viable enterprises and liquidation of non-viable enteprises. They are based on a
nber of principles which: (i) assure adherence to the established priority of claims to maintain
discipline in the system; (0) exnguish or substantially reduce existing equity prior to debt forgivens
or debt to equity swaps; (iii) recognize the need for increased govement flexibility in debt negotiations
in order to faciite agreemen among the various parties and to encourage injection of new eqity; and
(iv) assure financing only for companies which are viable without subsidies, will be able to service debt
obtained on commercial terms, and will provide a market rate of return for investors.



37
128.  The Goverment intends to limit the support it provides to enterprises to support for debt relief
and labor rationalization, on the reasonable expectaon that most of the fumdamently viable  terprises
can be privadzed following such debt and labor restructuring and would have aces to commerca
finacing. Ihe remaining enterprises would be liquidated.
129.  At the same time, there will most likely be cases (for example enterprises witi substantial excess
labor, or those in particularly depressed regions of Slovenia) where some phasing of the adjustmet
process could prove necessary. In order to strictly limit any depure from the above approach to
situations where this is truly warranted, the Govnment will define, in advance, the criteria and
conditions for granting exceptional support. This support will be limited in duration, be given solely for
phasing the labor rationalization program, and wUi be tranched and conditioned on prior achievement by
the enterprises of set tagets.
130. The BRA guidelines provide that enterprises whose debt would be restruetured must have
satisfactory overall restructuring and privatization programs, including labor rationalization, and must
suspend dividend payments, restrict wages, and refrain from transfer of assets to third parties. Debt
restructuing would be implemented in conjunction with the transformation of the enterprises from social-
ownership to joint-stock companies. The guidelines will also help ensure that the banks do not take
excessive risks in the restructuing of problem debtors and that the future performance of any remaining
loans or Investment in these borrowers be fully accounted for in the bans' financial statements. To thi
end, the guidelinis will be made consistent with the new Bank of Slovenia regulations on problem debt
restructuing and extension and renewal of credit to classified borrowers, which wil be applicable to all
banks and are to be adopted by end June 30, 1993. Compliance with these BRA guidelines and Bank of
Slovenia regulaions will of be an indicator of continuing progress under the EPSAL program.
131.  Tohe Government is also working on the development of legiaton to govetn an out-of-court
conciliation process. Once enacted, this will provide the overal framework for the debt restucuring
guidelines and regultions. The existing and the forthcoming bankruptcy laws allow for debt conciliaon
procedures within court4led bankruptcy cases. However, the experience and the capacity of the courts
in this area is still limited. The courts are unable and have no particular advantage in managing the
etensive enterprise    ormaton and restructring process that is to take place. They would conse-
quently be dealing primarily, at this stage, with cases that are clearly on the liquidation and closure
tracks. The Government plans to strengten the court system to make it into an effective and primary
vehicle for dealing with issues of exit and reorganization of private sector enterprises.
Legal & Reguatory Framewrk
132. The 1991 Law on the Bank of Slovenia and the 1991 Law on Banks have provided a
comprehensive famework for govering banking activities and have empowered the Bank of Slovenia
to regulate and supevise banks. The Banking Law gives broad powers to the Bank of Slovenia to license
banks, specify minimum entry capital, define a bank's scope of activities, and assess the qualifications
of potentia owners and managers. The Law provides a minimum 6.5% capital adequacy requirement
and a maximum exposure limit of 30% of capil to any individual borrower. Investment in fixed asse
and in paricipations (other than those to be consolidated) is limited to 100% of the capital of a bank.
The Govemment is submitting to Parliament amendments to this law which wfll improve bank governanc
(by making boards accountable for oveseeing management and for compliance with laws and
regulations), limit equity investments, limit ewposures to groups of related borrowers, increase entry
capital and upgrade capital adequacy requiements, and empower the Bank of Slovenia to prescribe bank



38
accounting rules and auditing requirements. Adoption of these amendmrens is a condition of second
trache reease of this loan.
133.  Based on its regulatory authority, the Bank of Slovenia has already established licensing
procedures, minimum capitl adequacy rules, external auditing procedures and loan classification and
provisioning guidelines. It is issuing improved regulations in order to strengthen the guidelines for loan
classification and provisioning, introduce interest suspension, and upgrade the capital adequacy rules to
a level that is compatible with international standards. Application of the new rules by alU banks will be
an indicator of contnuing progress under the EFSAL program.
134. The Law on Rehabilitation, Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks was also introduced in 1991.
Tlis law empowers the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to initiate pre-rehabilitation procedures for
banks with potential losses in excess of 30% of capital and fiul rehabilitation measures when such losses
exceed 50% of capital. In exercising its mandate to implement bank rehabilitation, this law also
empowers the BRA to: take over banks, suspend management, supersede the rights of owners, wreoff
losses against capital, assume losses, and recapitalize, merge or privatize the banks. The Government
is submitting to Parliament amendments to this law which will eliminate the present 1 % limit on the share
of any individual owner and authorize the Bank of Slovenia to provide temporary liquidity support for
BRA operations. Amendment of the Rehabilitation Law and adoption of new governing legislation on
the BRA reflecting its expanded role and responsibilities are conditions of second tranche release of this
loan.
Bankg SWerislon
135. The Bank of Slovenia established a bank Supervision Department at the beginning of 1992. This
department currently monitors banks based on prescribed reports and information produced, annualy,
by the banks and their external auditors. Supervisory activities are presently limited to off-site
surveillance.
136.  To ensure an effective supervision process capable of assessing and monitoring the financial
condition of banks and the stability of the system, the Bank of Slovenia is adopting an instittional plan
that will speed up the development of off-site and on-site supervision. This plan will aim at: (i)
improving bank reporting by, inE  "im, prescribing accounting rules compatible with international
standards, Qi) upgrading the presen computerized system to provide for more timely and accurae
performance reporti, better monitoring of risk exposures, and an early warning system, (iii)
development and implemeaton of on-site examination methodologies, and (iv) recruitment of adequate
staff and development of an appropriate training program. The technical assistance component of the loan
provides US$0.6 million to help finace a training program and an expert in banking supervision who
would, in  ii, assist in developing on-site examination methodologies (about two years) and short-term
consultants in other special areas and an expert in accounting and reporting requirements. Achievement
of satisfactory progress in development of off-site and on-site supervision will be an indicator of
continuing progress under the EPSAL program.
Bank Prlvatzaon
137.  In order to achieve the uldmate goal of the Bank Restucturing Program of privating the banks,
it is critical th  the supervisory capacity of the Bank of Slovenia be built up, in the shortest possible
period, to a level which would enable effective regulation and surveillance of a private and a more



39
sophisticated banking sector. Presen d&,ositors may be cosidered prime candidates for fuwre bank
ownership. In some cases, managers and staff could also be offered the opporunity to invest in the
banks. The authorides should vigorously pursue and aim to attract and selezt quality investors with
financial clout and proven managerial ability, before pressure is built up to disinvest from banks and
accept excessive participation by non-financial companies.
138.  The authorities are in the process of defining the basic elements of a bank privatzation strategy.
This strategy needs to be consistent with the legal framework for banking and with the licensing policy
followed by the Bank of Slovenia. At the minimum this strategy should specify: (i) the minimum
requirements for potential investors; CiH) maximum levels of foreign versus national ownership in the
banking sector; (iii) conditions under which domestic banik can takeover or merge with problem banks;
(iv) the desired distribution of ownership in individual banis; and (v) price vsu non-price consider-
ations in the selection of investors. The Bank Rehabilitation Agency would be privatizing banks in line
with the strategy for bank privatzation set by the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. Their goal will
be to limit to no more than two years the process of rehabilitation of any bank before proceeding with
privaization. To assist them in the privatization of large strategic banks, they intend to retain the
services of investment bankers or similar experts. The technical assistance component of the loan
includes about US$0.3 million to BRA, to finance a banking expert for about 18 months to provide advice
on strategic issues in bank reform and restructring, including the development of privatization schemes.
Ihe Governmen intends to develop the core elements of the bank privatzation stategy, by mid-1994.
Privatzaion of at least one bank and development of the core elements of a privatization strategy for
banks under rehabilitation are conditions of second mnche rlase of this loan.
D.    Labor Market Adjustment and the Social Safety Net
139. Another integral component of the reform program aims at facilitating labor market adjustment,
and at establishing a viable and efficient social safety net. As a result of the significant legal and
institonal dhamges which have been introduced since late 1989, the Slovene labor market has undergone
a major transformation. The Yugoslav Federal Labor code of October 1989, whose provisions were
adopted in the Slovene Labor code of April 1990, gave employers for the first time the right to lay off
workers. Since tiat time, there has been a major shift in labor force allocation and a significant reduction
of surplus labor in the enterprise sector. Social sector employment which accounted for almost 85% of
total Slovene employment in 1988, decreased by about 18% from end-1989 to end-1991; and the most
notable consequence from the shedding of labor from the social sector, so far, has been a dramatic
increase in unemployment: from a very low level of 2-3% in the late 1980s to the current level of
13.5%.
140.  The Govemment's labor market and social safety net policies comprise three interreled
elements: reduced restictions on hiring and firing workers; adequate assistance to the unemployed; and
active labor market policies. The 1991 Slovene Labor Code reduces the period of notification required
prior to laying-off technologically redundant workers, from 24 months to 6 months. Redundant workers
can be reassigned, given early retirement, or compensated at the minimum wage for up to six months
before they are formally laid off. The Law on Unemployment Insurance, also adopted in 1991, provides
unemployed workers with entitlement to unemployment compensation, training, assistance for relocation,
and up to one year of health iinurance following which the unemployed workers' access to the health
system is govened by the socW assistance program. Under the same law, workers can also coUect
capitalized unemployment compensation as a lump-sum payment if these funds are to be used for strting
new businesses or for gaining new employment. To return the unemployed into the productive labor



40
force or to maintain employment, the Govemment has been inplementng a variety of active programs,
Including agessive training programs for the unemployed; cash grants for new hiring, subsidies to
maintai existing jobs, public employment programs, micro-enterprise incubator programs, and advisory
services for self-employment. For those who remain unemployed after expiration of all unemployment
benefit there b aces to a soci assistance program operated by the Ministry of Health and Socia
Services. Cash benefit under this program take into account family income from all sources and could
include a child-care allowance, and are revised semi-annually to ensure that families can cover minimum
costs.
141.  There are sdll, however, several shortcomings in Slovenia's current labor market and social safety
net policies. Ihe Labor code sfill imposes serious costs on enterprises for laying-off workers, and thus
could: discourage employers from attempting to become more competitive by improving productivity
and reducing cost; deter new job creation; and force firms, that might otherwise be able to restructure
successfully, towards bankruptcy and closure. Moreover, while most of the active labor market policies
have proved to be highly useful in increasing employment, other policies, most notably the subsidies to
mainain existing employment, are counterproductive and fiscally costly.
142.  The Governme  intnds, within the oveail framework for enterprise restructuring and
privazion, to further strengthen those measures that would facilitate the adjustment in the labor market
and to appropriate adequate budgetary funding for the incremental cost resulting from the implementation
of the reform program. Specifically, in order to facilitate efficient labor reallocation, the Goverment
intends to firther simplify layoff procedures, and reduce the burden on enterprises in financing redundant
workers by shortening the period of prior notification for layoffs to 4 months. The Government is also
committed to suspending subsidies for job preservation, and reducing subsidies for early retirement.
They expect a furher increase in unemployment in 1993 (of bout 30,000) as a result of enterprise
restrucwtring, and have planned to cover the increase in the cos associated with unemployment benefits
and active labor programs (Table 12). About US$0. 1 million is provided under the technical assistance
component of this project to carry out a study to help improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the
MOL's program, dealing with the impact of enterprise transfomaon, including the possibility of ma
layoffs.
143. During 1994, the Government intends to continue providing sufficient fiscal support to the
relocation of labor and the safety net, while makdng efforts to streamline and iegra  all the individual
programs. They Iend, inx aim, to reduce significandy the maxinum duradon of the unemployment
ince period (currently 24 months), by shortening the period for which an unemployed person is
enttled to unemployme assistance to 6 months regardless of years of employment. They intend also
to limit the maximum unemployment insurance benefit to a level below the current level of four times
the mininmum g        wage, and restrict eligibility criteria to reduce waste. They also inte o
eliminate any overlapping between the unemployment insurance program and the social assistance
program. Support to those who remain unemployed beyond the reduced period of insurance will be
provided by the social sis e program only, and will consist of means-tested benefits based on family
size.



41
E.    PoUtlcd and Sodal Feasibility
144. Prior to Independence, the intellectual and political leaders of Slovenia were at the forefront of
the effort to liberalize and reform the Yugoslav economy through transformation of the system of social
ownership and restructuring of the financial sector. Since independence, privatzation and finacial sector
reform have become major objectives of all major political parties.
145. Although the implementation of these reforms have been slowed by the turbulence that
accompanied the independence process and by the political jockeying that folowed independence, this
time was also put to good use in debating and reaching a practical consensus on some of the most
sensitive elements of the political and social dimensiorns of the reform. This is evidenced by the
agreem       on the privatization fiamework which was preceded by intense debate on the equity,
distributive, and other dimensions of the privadzation. This is also indicated by the progress achieved
on wage policy issues. Moreover, there is a clear recogniton among all major political pardes that the
reform must now move ahead without delay. The success of these major parties in the elections have
enhanced the possibility that the Government will be given the mandate and will have the credibility to
proceed with vigorous implementation of the reform program.
146. The popuation will of course feel the strains of the adjustment; but there are good reasons to
believe that the reforms can be socially sustained. The duration of the adjustment period need not span
more than two years provided that the reforms are implemented effectively. During this short period,
unemployment should not increase by more than an additional 3% above the current level, and should
decline thereafter with the resumption of growth. Moreover, even with the rationalization of the xising
generous provisions of the social safety net, the programs that will be in place should sufflciently cushion
the hardships that will be experienced by the Slovene population from the expected labor market
adjustment.



42
V. The Piroposed Lam
A.    Loan Amounmt and lbrowe
147.  nbo proposed Bok loan, in the amount of US$80 million equiat, wfll be made to the
Republic of Slovenla for a period of fifteen years, inluding five yeas of gra, at the Bans standard
variable interest rate.
B.    Lem Dedi  and Componets
148.  The prncipal objecdve of this loan is to provide timely and responsie support to Slovela's
effort to implement dfectiv refm of its enterprise and fincial sectors. Ihe loan will   itate
ente4pise prkvazatlon and restuctug, and accelerate te deveopment of a strong and suportive
financial sector. Ibo loan will have a policy compone and a technical assistace component.
149.  ThePoUiCompo        (US$75 milon)wllprvdefast-dibursngfindsfobance-ofpayments
assistac in support of the Govenmens ovell economic refom  program. The Government, In
coopertion wit the Bank and the IMP, will aim at maintainin a stable macroeonomic fimework
witin which essential structral reforms can be implemented. lbe main emes of the reform  program
include: Q) refom of the enteprs sector Icuding prvatiatlon of socially-owned e0nies, refm
of ownership and governnc of sta-ow ed e    es, Ip        n  of programs to stem entepise
losses, and private sector developmen  i) reform of the banking sector Including bank retucbtg,
e cent of the reg uy framework for baking, and bank privaz        ; and (Ill) labor mare
adjusme  and strengtening of the socia safety net. Ihe program linls these th   elements in such a
way as to solve h&berited problems in e enterprise and banking sectors, drive the process of enterpis
ector restrucui  hrough eneqpise privahao and lqudation, reform the financial system and help
enure st b           of Xe res.
150.  The TedJcAl Asista   Coent (US$5 million) will provide fiacing for long term
advisors, short term consultats and  t     in core ars essenta for successfil Imlentation of the
Govenmet's reform pgram. k wi compdse, ni   a. (a) help to snen the              m
finawork by providig   anto the Mistry of Finance to cary out a study and prepare an acdon
program for medium-term pension refm, and to support the Tresury Department in the establishment
of priay and secondary m     for public sector securites; ,o) support for bang sect restrcx t
toug   () suo  to the Bank of Slovenia for th       Ientation of its plan to acceere the
development of off-si  and on-site s vision; (ii) as  e to the Bank Rehabiitation Agency in
carying out its bank rstrctuing pror, including specific support for the istuiona segteing
of Lublijanska Baks dd; and (i) provison of expets to assist in the debt recovery process; (c)
assistanc for enterpise reorm nad prvaza     trough: ( suWort to the Prhvatzon Agency in
developing procedures for differet metods of privataon and in the first priVatizat1o-- through iial
public offerng; O) support to tha  Mistry of ndusty in developing a coherent strategy for indust
developmen and in beghning il nIon of the most cric  actons evisged under ts saStegy;
and OM surt tD dth Miny of Labor to enhanc its progrm for deding with the impact of the
restructuring of to entewrie sector, including the possibility of mas Isyoffs. The techal sista
component aes into acount  d complement support being provided by other mulll and bilater



43
donors. Details of this component, together with a breakdown of estimated costs, are given in Annex
4.
C.    Monitoring Arrangements
151.  The authorities are aware that achieving the ambitious objectives of the reforms would require
a major implementation effort (including technical assistance support) and close coordination of
Government and Bank of Slovenia actions and policies. They have recognized the importance of such
a concerted effort by setting up a high level interagency counterpart team that has been coordinting the
program and the dialogue with the Bank. This team will remain in place during implementation of the
program to ensure successful execution.
D.    Lending and Administrative Arrangements
152.  The Nmistry of Finance will administer directly the fast-isbursing fimds. The technical
assistance fimds will be made available by the Government without cost to the beneficiary agencies. The
Mimistry of Finance will be responsible for the management and administron of these funds, while
implementation of the various activities will be the responsibility of the recipient agencies. The closing
date of the loan will be December 31, 1995.
E.    Procurement and Disbursenents
Procurement
153.  Fast-Disbursing Componen:  The loan will finance 100 percent of the CIa  cts of general
imports and related services, excluding luxury goods, military equipment, mnclear reactors and parts,
uranium, tobacco, and environmentlly hazardous products defined under the Standard International Trade
Classification.
154.  Imports made by government agencies, public enterprises, and private importers for US$5 million
equivalent or more per contract will be procured in accordance with simplified Interational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) for which the Bank's Standaid Bidding Document for Goods will be used.
155.  Contracts for commodities in excess of US$5 million each will be awarded following the
established commodity market practices provided these practices are found acceptable by the Bank. A
detailed description of these practices for each commodity that the Borrower would propose to finance
with the proceeds of this loan will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for its prior review and
acceptance. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Commodities will be used for these items.
156. Contracts estimated to cost below US$5 million each, both for the public and the private sectors,
will be awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from three suppliers
from at least two eligible countries. Direct contracting.(single source purchase) will be allowed only for
proprietary items or where the need for compatibility with existing items calls for standardization.
157.  Procrement will be coordinated by a two-member loan aministation team which has been
established in the Ministry of Finance. The team members will be provided necessary training both in
procurement and disburement. This training will be completed before loan effectiveness. The MOF
team will provide bi-annual progress reports on procurement activities to the Bank.



44
158.  Conracts below US$10,000 will not be eligible for Bank fimancing. Tis threshold is consistent
with satisfctory access by small- and medium-size importers, and the operation will still remain
manageable from an administrative point of view. Retroactive financing would be acceptable up to
US$15 million (20% of the quick disbursing component) for eligible imports paid during the four-month
per  preceding loan siging.
159.  Techncal Assiance: Procurement for technical assistce contracts would follow the World
Bank guidelines for contracing consultant services. Ihe total amount allocated by the Bank to this
component is US$5 million equivalent, which would be broken down as follows. Five conltr   (about
US$1.3 million) for long-term advisors and two contracts (about US$1.0 million) with firms. It is
planned that the long-term advisors will include one in bank supervision for two years, one in bank
restructuring for 18 months, and three of one-year each for debt recovery/workouts. Contracts with fims
would be for LBdd's institutional development plan and one for banking experts. Severa (short-term)
contrcts for a total value of about US$2.5 million will be awarded to individual consultants and an
allocation of about US$0.2 million has been made for training purposes.
160.  Terms of reference for most major assignments have been prepared. Selection of consultas for
these assiment is expected to commence during August/September and the initial assignments,
particuLarly in regard to advisors on privatization and for bank restructuring and supervision, are expected
to begin in October/November 1993. The local consulting profession is well developed and is expected
to participate in certain assignments. Retroactive financing under this component would be allowed up
to a maximum of US$500,000 for eligible expenditures incurred after April 1, 1993. Almost 90% of the
technical assistance component is expected to be disbursed by end-1994. The balance is primarfly to
cover the two-year contract of the bank supervision expert and is expected to be disbursed by end-1995.
161.  Documentation for all consultants' services valued at US$100,000 and above, and for all contcts
wih didulsu regardless of value, would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. Couracts
with firms valued at less than US$100,000 would be subject to post-award reviews by the Bank.
However, terms of r-4rence ft r each assignment would be approved by the Bank.
Dlsbwrsements
162. The fast-disbursing component of the loan would finance 100% of CIF costs of eligible imports
and related sevices. Disburements would be made on the basis of documented withdrawal applications
except for expendtum below US$5 million, which would be based on st=tement of expenditure. These
sttments would indicate the origin of the goods, invoices, customs declarations and evidence of payment
and would be availale for review by Bank supervision missions and externa auditors.
163.  For the teical assistance component, proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would fnmce up
to 100% of expenditures for consutant' services and traiitg. Witdrawal applications would be fuly
docunted, except for expenditures against contracts valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent, which
would be made on the basis of cerdfe saemen  of expenditure detaiing the individual otrsactons.
The mn to support thes expnditures would be retinled by the WMintry of Finane for at least
one year aftaer receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was
made. TMhis do=eton would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and extal
auditors.



45
164.  To faia    disbursements againt the tchcal sitce component, a Special Account would
be established and mantained in a freely c&-uvertible currency in a bank acceptable to the Bank. The
authorized alocation of this account would be US$500,000. At the reqtiest of the Borrower, the Bank
would mak an Iiti deposk Io the Special Account, up to the amount of the authorized allocaton.
Applications for replenishmen of the account would be submitted quarterly, or when onethird of the
funds have been disbursed, whichever occurs earlier. Documentaion requirements for replenishment
applications would follow the same procedure as described in para. 163. In addition, quarterly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower should accompany all
replenshmet requests.
F.    Accounts and Audits
165.  All account on the operations under this loan, the Special Acounts, and the Statements of
Expenditure will be audited at the end of each fisca year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Arrangemets for auditing have been assessed and found to be satisfactory. The accounts and auditors
report would be submitted to the World Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
G.    Environmental Assessment Requrements
166.  In acordance with the Banks Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01,
Annex E), the proposed operation has bean placed in category 'C" and does not require anen
assessment.
EL    Release of Funds and Tranhing
167.  It is prposed that the fist-disbursing component of the loan be disbursed in two trnhes; a first
tranche of US$35 mfllion will be eligible for disbursement upon eftiveness of the loan. A second
tranche of US$40 mfllion would be eligible for disbursement upon satisfaction of the proposed conditions
of its release, as detailed in the Matrix of Key Policy Actions (Annex 3). Ihe two tranches are expected
to be about one year apart.
I.            and Risks
168.  Given Its preent stage of developmen and the skill of its people, the reform program to be
supported under this loan, If succsfully Implemented, will ena-e Slovenla to make an effective and
tapid transition to a market economy that could serve as an example for other transforming countries in
Central and Eater Europe. The technical assistance to be provided dtrough the loan will support the
Govenment and Slovene nstions in impl      g this economic transfomation  With privation
of most of the aisng socialy-owned enterprses, tesolution of t  problem of bank portfolios and
enterprise debt, establishment of a competiive, sound, and stable banking sector, effective govance
and regulto of a simmed down state-owned enteris sector, and institution of a comprehensive
framework for private sector actvities, Slovenia will very likey achieve a rate of economic growth and
the increasingiy stronger ties with West  European counies, hat are the prime objectves of its
economic stratey.
169.  The main rsks aociated with the program relat to the political and social facts which may
cause partia or low adjusmen of the necessary macroeconomic policies and fragmentary Implementation
of the reform. ITis would most likely lead to higher rates of inflation and unemployment and to lower



46
leveS of inVestment and gowth. However, the suwce   ImOf Monay,
the teen adopti  of maor privati       and bak       g le, and the refom agendas of
the main politcd Pates tht o   th   majority in the ww Paiment ate to t he      on of
the politc  leadhip ad to the upott of the population for preing  ed with the rems. Uwee
is naurally a rea risk tha popula support cmn be eroded as the socia cos of fth adjustment increasm
over the coming two yes. However, hs risk sem  to be controllable given the relative eau  of
communication within the country, the epected short duronD of tie adjutme  period, and th socil
safet  net tha Slovenia has already In place.
170.  1 am satshfied ta the prposed loan cod comply with th Aticles of Ageemen of the Bank,
and I rcommend iha the Executive Directs approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Pston
PAident
Wahington DC
June 22, 199



47
ANNEX I
STAT=ICAL TALES



48
PaP 2 of 9
TABLE 1
MAIN ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 192-2000
92    I93  V        4      19s      196        997     199       999     2000
GDP (USS mions)                   11439.6  12327.9  140.6  1444.8  15634.4  17046.6  185513   20195.4  21897.9
GDP Per Capia (USS)                5719.8   6164.8   67163   7224.0   7818.3   85U24.6   97.0  1009.2  10950.6
REAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATES:
Private Comption                  -5.6%     2.6%      33%      3.4%     5.0%      4.4%     3.3%     3.9%     5.4%
Grosa Domestic Produ              -6.5%    .0.5%     2.5%      4.0%     4.5%      5.0%     5.0%     5.0%     5.0%
GROWTH RATES
GDP                                 .6.5%    -0.5%     23%      4.0%      4.5%     5.0%     5.0%      5.0%     5.0%
Consumption                         -1.9%     3.2%     3.2%     3.4%      4.9%     3.8%     3.5%      4.0%     53%
lvestment                         -19.4%    40.1%    13.0%    12.4%    .95%       6.7%     7.9%      5.5%     5.6%
Epos (MxcL YUg.)                    11.4%     0.5%     2.0%     3.0%      4.0%     5.0%      5.0%     S.0%     5.0%
mpopts (cxcL YUg.)                  4.7%      6.2%     6.2%     SA.1      4.7%     5.1%     5.1%      5.0%     5.0%
lnftion                            92.9%    25.0%    1S.0%    10.0%       8.6%     8.0%     73%       6.6%     63%
RATIOS TO CURRENT GDP
1. REAL SECTOR.
Total Consumption                74.1%    773%    77.7%    77.0%    76.9%    75.8%   .74.5%    73.6%    73.6%
Publo                            7.8%     8.5%     8.5%      8.S%     8.5%      8.0%     8.0%     8.0%     8.0%
Private                         66.3%    68.8%    69.2%    8.5%    68.4%.  67.8%    66.5%    65.6%    65.6%
Gass Fixed bnwasmm               16.6%    16.7%    18.3%    19.8%    20.7%    21.0%    21.6%    21.7%    21.8%
Public                           3.8%     3.8%     4.2%      4.5%     4.5%      4.5%     4.5%     45%      4.5%
Enterpriss                      12.8%    12.9%    14.1%    15.3%    16.2%    16.5%    17.1%    17.2%    17.4%
Prate                           5.8%     7.7%    10.2%    14.0%    16.2%    16.S%    17.1%    17.2%    17.4%
So"l                            7.0%     5.2%     3.9%      1.3%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%
Total Expots, 01w?               62.7%    56S%    54.8%    54.6%    53.6%    543%    S5.0%    $S.8%    5S.8%
exL  Yug. Rep.                  45.9%    46.0%    44.8%    44.6%    44.6%    44.6%    44.8%    44.9%.  45.2%
Total Impots                     53.1%    51.2%    51.5%    52.0%    52.0%    51.9%    51.9%    51.9%    S2.0%
mcL Yugi Rep.                   39.5%    42.2%    42.5%    43.0%    43.0%    42.9%    42.9%    42.9%    43.0%
Domeso Savig                     25.9%    22.7%    22.3%    23.06   23.1%    24.2%    2S.5%    26.4%    26.4%
2. GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Total Reaue                      47.5%    47.0%    46.0%    45.0%    44.0%    44.0%        4.0%    "0       44.0%
ToWl E3xNd                       47.1%    49.0%    48.0%    46.5%    45.2%    44.5%    44.%    44.0%    44.0%
DoW-Y8 )rpW()                     0.4%    -2.0%    -2.0%    -1.5%    -1.2%    -0.5%       0.0%      0.0%     0.0%
3. BALANCE Ot PAUENS
Cur. A. BaL (% of GD)               63%       33%      1.9%     1.4%      1.5%     1.7%     2.0%      2.3%     2.7%
Debt Stok (mL. SUS)                1741.0   2044.1   20.8  '2106.0   2084.4   2018.1   1935.5   1780.6   1621.0
of which:iUallocated Debt                  465.0    400.0    335.0    270.0    205.0    140.0        75.0     10.0
Exral DeWGDP*               .      14.4%    16.4%    15.4%    14.4%    13.2%    11.7%    103%         8.7%     7.3%
Rs. in moaths of lmpor               2.9       3.5      4.0      43        4.5      4.6       4.8      3.0      5.2
tIncld  Slove's _udimated shar of unalocaed Yug   's debt saing I993.



49
A=a
Pagp 3 0f9
TABLE 2
SUMMARY OF GENEAL GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS, 1992-95
(Pecnt of GDP)
1992        1993        1994          l995
____________ ____________ ___________  A cta l      Bd get     PzojcaWd      Phdojea d
L TOTAL REVENUES                                      47.5         47.1        46.0          4S.0
1. Tax Reven=                                         21.9         221         22.1          22.1
2. Soal Secuiy Coantuulow                             23.0         22.2         21.0         20.0
3.. No*-Tax Revues                                     2.6          2.9          2.9          2.9
I. TOTAL      ITUIBS                                  47.1         49.1         48.0         46.5
1. PeWns Fund                                         13.0         14.1        13.1          12.0
2. Healfh Fund                                         7.4          7.3          7.1          6.5
3. Solidaiy Fund                                       0.4          0.1         0.1           0.1
4. Otbhr Bqmd&sus (Sta  + Loa Budgets)                26.4         27.6         27.7         27.9
4.1.F   al Suppo to Enoic RatueRAing                   2.1          4.2          S.4          S.4
BankRa*ucoming                                       0.0         0.8          2.3          2.3
EMn7dw Reseooba'mg                                   03          1.2          0.9          0.9
Social Saty net                                      1.7         2.1          2.2          2.2
4.2.0ther EV=fm (SoW + L:ocal Bud8")                  243          23.4         22.3         22.5
Wags and Purohases of Goods an SeWIs                 8.0         8.4          8.0          7.7
Social Trasks, Subskdis, h neste  Other             16.3        15.0         14.3          14.8
IL GENERAL GOVERNMENT SURPLUS(+)IDEFCICr-)             0.4         -2.0         -2.0         -1.S
MMORANDUM ITEM: PUBLIC DEBT (% of GDP)
Total :ub&U Debt                                      30.9
Dometi                                                23.0
ForEbi                                                 7.6
Alocated                                             3.7
Sgoiafs Sha r   of UEgd R                            3.9..



50                                                  m
4Pof 4of
TABLE 3
SLOVET- FICAL SUPPORT * 1O BANIK AND               3B3TRUCTUJRN  AM  TIM SOAll 8SAP            NET. 1994
192   U994                 19         993                994      1995
Dgslnbw 1992 du Fam  oDP
L  TOTAL (U+M+v)                     24840.0  4987S.0    457.0  65881.0       2.       4.2       5.4       S4
IL BANK RESTUCTURING                    0.0   9950.0   27715.0  2820.0        0.0      0.8       2.3       2.3
1. Cove4gpotLmoRebd to                  0.0   4440.0    840.0  3575.0         0.0      0.4       0.7      0.7
PouIdp Cu 9o DVpsit
2. Covuagof Loama Reb  to               0.0   5400.0   39.0  1900.0           t0       0.        1.6       1.6
Non ctkzulnS Loam
3. AMhn oadve Costa of BRA              0.0    110.0    115.0   120.0         0.0      0.        0.0       0.0
ENTERPRE E         UCR               3915.0  14507.0   108S.0  10732.0       0.        1        0         0.9
1. Et38ofStd                S732.0   457..0    698.0   6 0                    0.3      0.5       0.6       04
23, Re*u*Mins ofQWmoo0.0   430.0    1240.0   1240.0                           0.0      0.5       0.1       0.1
3. Rekso  Ra183.0   1120.0    1130.0   1160.0                                 0.0      0.1       0.1       0.1
4A Omal _ 6 P0.0pdn ReftuoWf0.0    500N.0                   0    1500.0       0.0      0.1       0.1      0Q
IV. SOCIAL SAUETY NET                209-0  25411.0   26004.0  2684.0          1.7     2.        2.2       2.2
EIENDITURES DJRBC?Y
RATED TORUC
1. Acdve Pioun                       80.   11041.0   1148.0  12043.0          0.7      09        1.0      1.0
2. Paoive Psoam                     12419.0  1431.0   14.0  14811.0           1.0      1.2       1.2       1I
Man. bm  GDP (DLosmbe 19 PMA)    1199000  180          12      1225000_



51                                                A09
Pope S of 9
FICAL SUPPORT               TABL BM IAD INTERPRLB URThUCMtUING, I19923 
Numberof a Imn            1992           1993
St". .                 Aes         Da  Budpt
.________________________                                                   (%of GDP)    (%ofGDP)
L  TOTAL (1 +  )                                                                  0.3          2.0
.L BANK DISTCTURINO                                                              0.0           0.8
1. Covso of Lese Rdeod to                                8678                    0.0           0.4
Col mweny Dq
2. CovX. of ese Reltd to                                 8679                    0.0           0.5
3. AdInibatie     R Cob of BRA                           1824                    0.0           0.0
DL ENTERPRISE fUCRNG                                                              0.3           12
1. Rbo4t     d    9o S seel                                                      0.0           0.5
I.1Bond                                                  8680                    0.0           0.1
12BDm                                                    g6                      0.0           0.4
2. Rafte*mbs ofF_ Mk0.0                                                                        0.1
2.1.CodlMes                                   1312+1313+1357+1358+1359           0.0           0.0
2±Odw _ Mi.                                              5186                    0.0           0.1
3. RaeqoWft of   bvz R&Rwqs                                                      0.0           0.1
4. Ruftuchmigg ofP     orWqdw                                                    0.3           0.5
4.1.Mou its 1(GemI                                       8677                    0.0           0O
42.Bond 1t 2 (CoWmg 2don foe Ogvwuado)                   7506                    0.1           0.1
4.3.Dnd R 3 (N     n_ oof RV*%"                          867                     0.0           0.1
4.44dShee     t?o U@psse                              1731+5501                  0.0           0.1
4.S.upoetlb Now  Sad  Eaqde                           1820-+564                  0.0           0.1
4.6.Suppoat to TeehdSlogiuhl Development  =I7I+7178+7118                         0.1           0.1



Aui
52                                             pap 6 of9.
TABLE 5
PISCAL SUPPORT TO THE SOCIAL SAFErY NET, 99243
Number of Rmn In            1992         1993
Soft Budgnt             Ahtd       Drft BudSt
(% of GDP)  (% of GDP)
L  SOCIAL EXPENDITURE-S DECTLY RELATEDTO                                               1.7          2.1
ECONObUC RESTRUCTURING (  I D+                                                                .
IL ACTVE PROGRAMS                                                                      0.7          0.9
1. General Taining and Retrdinig Progrms                7023+K6S+7027                 0.1          0.1
2. SelfEmployment Andsts-io                               8666+S674                   0.0          0.1
3. Seance Paymwetedundant Woars)                             7035                     0.2          0.2
4. C-Pmancing of Job-Credaon                    7024+7025+7030+7031+7033+7034         0.4          0.2
S. PubicWo                                                  7029                     0.0          0.0
6. Retriing of Mine  (Coal and Uraium)                    5191+5192                   0.0          0.0
7. Development Fund Pmogaun                                  SS64                     0.0          0.2
DL PASSIVE PROGRAMS                                                                    1.0          1.2
I. UneampYment Bnfit                                    1826+1836+7020                0.6          0.7
2. Lump Sum PaymCen fr Self-Emp _ymat                        7021                     0.0          0.0
3. UnemplymedtAssisance                                      7022                     0.2          0.3
4. PUbse of Woding Yar br Eary Retemenet                     7028                     0.1          0.0
5. TemPorary SOCial Benefit                                  7017                     0.0          0.2
EMORAI4DTJMrITEM: SOCIAL EXPeNDIT           NOT                                        2.6          2.9
DIRECTLY RELATED TO ECONOMbC
RESTRUCTURJNG
1. Matenity Loeve                                            7011                     0.8          0.8
2. Chd A      _owsne                                       7013 +7014                 0.5          0.4
3. Schoarshp                                               Group D.                   0.4          0.4
4. Social Assi8uw    *7016+8S03+7018                                                  0.1          0.1
S. Trandfm to Paulo, Fund                                    1293                     0.0          0.6
6.   dsandVets benefits                                   706 to 7048                 0.3          0.3
7. Artht Beneft                                           7049+7052                   0.0          0.0
8. SpotmnBeneSfi                                        .72254 7226+7227              0.0          0.0
9. Priem Beft                                                5236                     0.0          0.0
10. Oter Social BenPt                                         7032                     0.5          0.2



53
Page 7Of 9
TABLE 6
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS IN CURRENT AND CONSTANT PRICES
(SiT mIlion.)
992      1993      1994                 96      1        1998       1999     2000
IN CURRENT PRICES
Gross Domesto Product    982500.0 1353231.6 1739445.5 2057998.5 2330344.9 2653259.8 3003513.1 3371495.2 3762064.6
Total Consumption        728265.4 104622A.6 1351907.1 1583849.6 1793179.5 2012245.4 2238580.2 24*1875.0 2768574.0
Government               76635.0  115024.7  147852.9  174929.9  198079.3  212260.8  240281.0  269719.6 30095.2
Private                 651630.4  931200.0 12040543 1408919.7 1595100.2 1799984.6 1998299.1 221215.4 24676089
Total'lavestment          160095.0  235001.6  330463.6  419407.0  498948.5  576407.3  672784.9  758167.0 851419.8
Groas Fed K Formnaton    163095.0  225529.0  318287.5  407059.0  482636.1  557834.  64S756.8  731195.0 821323
Govement                37095.5   514243   72757.2  92225.5  104394.3  118802.4  134476.7  150939.6 168534.5
Publio Non-Oovemment    69293.5   70370.1  67560.2  26642.9    232.0    264.0    298.8         335.4   374.5
Private                 56706.0  103734.7  177970.1  288190.6  378009.8  438768.1  513981.3  579920.0 652414.2
Change in b _etrie        -3000.0    9472.6  12176.1  12348.0  16312.4  1SM.S   24028.1   26972.0  30096.5
Ttal Exports              615971.2  764824.9  9S3472.8 1124647.0 1249371.7 1441684.8 1651083.2 1880364.4 20983242
Outse Yugoslavia        451103.2  622735.5  779528.2  918847.2 1039640.7 1184318.6 1344724:9 112871.5 169945.4
Totul fipots             521831.6  692819.5  896398.0 1069905.1 1211154.8 1377077.7 1558935.1 1748911.2 19562S3.4
Outde Yugodavia         388413.6  571028.7  739S47.9  884685.2 1001423.7 11382843 1288619.0 1445476.6 1617667.6
IN CONSTANT  M2 PRICES
Gos Dometn Product       98500.0  977840.1 1001805.1 1041819.7 1088847.9 1143433.1 1200957.8 1261590.5 1324813.0
TOt Conumpion             728265.4  751742.7  775812.1  8071.3  842030.7  873623.4  90424S.5  940848.6 99092
Govenment                76635.0   83116.4  8S153.4  88554.7  92552.1  91474.7  96076.6  100927.2 105985.0
Privat                  651630.4  668626.3  690658.6  713816.6  749478.6  782153.7  808168.9  839921.3 884947.2
Totl Investmeat           160095.0  169806.4  191108.6  213201.3  234184.9  249647.7  270376.8  285162.6 301177.1
Gros Fed K Formaion      163095.0  162961.8  184067.1  200243  226528.5  241603.6  260720.5  275017.8 2905.9
Govement                3709S.5  37157.9  42075.8  46881.9  48998.2  51454.5  54043.1   S6771.6  59616.6
Publi Non-Govenmnt       69293.5  50847.7  39070.4  13543.7    108.9    1143         120.1     126.2    13.
Private                  S6706.0  74956.1  102920.9  146498.7  177421.5  190034.8  206557.3  218120.1 230781.9
Changes i Inenoes         -3000.0    6844.7   7041.5   6277.0   7656.3   8044.1   96563   10144.7  10646.2
Total Expo                615971.2  556633.0  565457.4  583017.8  595377.2  632757.1  66991.0  711623.1 742047.8
OutiO Yugoskvia         451103.2  453.6  46229.5  476331.0  495431.7  519798.8  5456743  572S45.6 601074.3
Totl Impots               521831.6  500342.0  530573.0  556770.6  582744.9  612600.0  643655.6  676043.8 709344.2
Outside Yugoslavia      388413.6  412386.8  437911.9  4603S3.6  48133.2  S06371.6  532047.0  558750.8 586571.8



54                                                    AM1
Page 8 of 9
TABLE 7
NATIONAL ACCOUNT IN CURRENT AND CONSTANT PRICES
(% of GDP)
1992        3       9       19       1                   1998      1999     2000
IN CURRENT PRICES
Gross Domest Product            100.0%   100.0%   100.0%   100.0%   100.0%   100.0%    100.0%    100.0%   100.0%
Total Consumpdmon                74.1%    77.3%      77.7%    77.0%    76.9%    75.8%      74.5%     73.6%    73.6%
Government                       7.8%     8.S%      8.5%     8%        8.5%     8.0%      8.0%      8.0%     8.0%
Privato                         66.3%    68.8%    69.2%    68.5%    68.4%    67.8%       66.5%     65.6%    65.6%
Totalinvestment                   16.3%    17.4%    19.0%    20.4%    21.4%    21.7%       22.4%     22.5%    22.6%
Gross fixd R Fornation           16.6%    16.7%    18.3%     19.8%    20.7%    21.0%      21.6%     21.7%    21.8%
Government                      3.8%      3.8%     4.2%      4.5%     4.5%      4.5%     4.5%      4.5%      4.5%
Publo Non-Govenmnt              7.1%      5.2%     3.9%      1.3%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%      0.0%
Private                         5.8%      7.7%     10.2%    14.0%     16.2%    16.5%     17.1%     17.2%    173%
Changes in Inventories           -0.3%     0.7%      0.7%     0.6%      0.7%     0.7%      0.8%      0.8%     0.8%
Total} Epot                       62.7%    S6.Si%     4.1%    54.6%    53.6%      4.3%  * 55.0%      55.8%    55.8%
Of Which: Outde Yugosavia       45.9%    46.0%    44.8%    44.6%    44.6%    44.6%       44.8%     44.9%    4S.2%
Totdalmpot                         3.1%    51.2%    51.5%    52.0%    52.0%    51.9%       51.9%     S1.9%    S2.0%
Of Which: Ousd  Yugoslvia       39.5%    42.2%    42.5%    43.0%    43.0%    42.9%       42.9%     42.9%    43.0%
Domedc Savinsp                   25.9%    22.7%    223%       23.0%    23.1%    24.2%    25.5%      26.4%    26.4%
Neot Faorlcome                 40.8%     -0.9%    -0.8%     -0.6%    -0.5%    -0.3%      -0.2%     0.0%     0.2%
Net CumtTransfer                 0.7%      0.4%     0.4%      0.4%     0.3%      0.3%     0.3%      0.3%     0.3%
National Savings                 25.8%    22.2%    21.9%    22.8%    22.9%    24.2%    25.6%    26.7%    26.9%
Trade Bal. wih Yugoslavia        3.2%      1.5%     1.0%      1.0%     0.0%     0.7%      1.2%      1.9%      1.6%
National Saving wlo Yug.         22.6%    20.7%    20.9%    21.8%    22.9%    23.5%        24.4%    24.8%    253%
IN CONSTANT 1992 PRCES
Otoss Domestic Product           100.0%   100.0%   100.0%    100.0%   100.0%   100.0%    100.0%    100.0%   100.0%
Total Consumption                 74.1%    76.9%    77.4%    77.0%    77.3%    76.4%       75.3%     74.6%    74.8%
Governuent                       7.8%     8.5%      8.5%      8.5%     85%      8.0%      8.0%      8.0%     8.0%
Privat                          663%      68.4%    68.9%    68.5%    68.8%    68.4%      673%      66.6%    66.8%
Total Investment                  16.3%    17.4%     19.1%    20.5%    21.5%    21.8%      22.5%     22.6%    22.7%
Gross Fixed K Fonatia  -         16.6%    16.7%    18.4%      19.9%    20.8%    21.1%     21.7%    21.8%    21.9%
Govcnmnt                        3.8%      3.8%     4.2%      4.5%     45%       4.5%      4.5%     4.5%      4.S%
Publri Non-Government           7.1%      5.2%     3.9%      1.3%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.0%
Privam                          5.8%      7.7%     10.3%    14.1%    163%    16.6%       17.2%     17.3%    17.4%
Changes in lnventories           .0.3%     0.7%      0.7%     0.6%      0.7%     0.7%      0.8%      0.8%     0.8%
Totbl Expor                       62.7%    S6.9%    56.4%    56.0%    S4.7%    55.3%    S5.8%    S6.4%    56.0%
Of Whic: Outside Yugoslavia     45.9%    463%      46.1%    45.7%    455%    45.5%       4S.4%     4S.4%    45.4%
Total Imports                     53.1%    51.2%     53.0%    53.4%    53.5%    53.6%      53.6%     53.6%    53.5%
Of Which: Outside Yugolavia     39.5%    42.2%    43.7%    44.2%    44.3%    44.3%       44.3%    44.3%    44.3%



55
Papa 9 of 9
TABLE 8
BALANCE O PAYMNS
(USS                                                  .. ..on
199     3.9      199      199      1996    199      199      199      2000
L CURRENT ACCOUNT              764.3   416.4   253.0   202.6   240.3   300.    382.6    475.6   5943
1. TS& EDancels                239.7  -232.1   -412.4   -518.2  -563.1  .400.6  -4353   4671.3  -701.9
Resource Biase             771.1   476.8   310.1   242.7   259.5   299.5   350.9   408.9   487
1.1. Total E s         .      S548.7  5742.0  6091.3   65272   7060.5  7704.1  8411.1   9178.3  10020.2
Goods                     4184.1   42433   4S01.   4823.6  5217.7  56933   6215.8   678   7405.0
Non-Factor Ser c '         1364.6   1498.7   158'.8  1703.6  1842.8  2010.8  21953   2395.5   26153
1.2. Total Inports, o/w:      4777.6  5265.2   51.2  6284.5  6801.0  7404.6  8060.2   8769.4  9537.S
Goods                     3944.4  4475.4  4914.0  5341.9  5780.8  6293.9  6851.1  7454.0  8106.9
Non-Faclt Serice           833.2   789.8    867.2   942.7  1020.1  1110.7  1209.0   1315.4  1430.6
2. Notactor Paynmns            -92.3   -109.3   -107.0   -93.1   -74.2   .58.9   -303         1.8    43.5
2.1. Factor Receipft            72.2    92.8    118.2   147.4   171.5   193.2   217.0   243.1   273.5
intets                      5S.5    76.8   100.2   126A    1473S   167.2   188.0    213.1   239.5
Ptofts                       18.2    15.0    17.0    20.0    23.0    25.0    28.0    29.0    33.0
Labors' Income               -1.5     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
22. Paaor Paymena              164.5   202.1    225.2   240.4   245.7   252.2   2473    2413    230.0
inte-et                     134.6   127.1   149.2   152.4   153.7   152.2   1473    141.3   130.0
Plofits                     29.9    75.0    76.0    88.0    92.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
3. ForeIgn Tranders to:         853     49.0    50.0    53.0    55.0    60.0    62.0         65.0    68.0
3.1. Goveniont                  47.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
32. PRivate (AsilteN)           38.5    29.0    30.0    33.0    35.0    3S.0    37.0    40.0    43.0
II. CAPITAL ACCOUNT             -5.2   .61.9    143.7   118.2    58.4    13.7    -2.6   -74.9   -79.6
1. Dirt Forei  Ivestmet        109.3   100.0   100.0   100.0    80.0    80.0    80.0         80.0    80.0
2. Total D isburmmai           140.5   169.1   339.7   296.2   221.9   187.0   16.9          87.1    84.8
3. Total Amoro                 255.0   331.0   296.0   278.0   243.4   253.3   245.5    242.1   244.4
IIL CHANGE IN RESERVES         797.9   354.6   396.7   320.8   298.8   314.2   380.0    400.7   514.7
TV. ERRORS At" OMIONS    -38.8           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
DEBT AND DEBT INDICATORS:
Exeal Debt(SUS mm;wn) *      1741.0  2044.1  2087.8  2106.0  2084.4  2018.1  1935.5   1780.6  1621.0
Itere Paymet I GDP              1.1%     1.0%     1.1%    1.0%     1.0%     0.9%    0.8%      0.7%    0.6%
ExtenaIDetfXGQNMS              31.4%    3S.6%    34.3%    32.3%    29.5%    26.2%    23.0%    19.4%   .16.2%
Net tee PaymnXGNPS              2.4%     2.2%    2.4%     2.3%     2.2%     2.0%     1.8%     1.5%    1.3%
kMmvWD e*m&1 Debt               7.7%     6.2%    7.1%     7.2%     7.4%     7.5%    7.6%      7.9%    8.0%
Debt Servce Rao                 7.0%     8.0%    7.3%    *6.6%     5.6%    53i      4.7%     4.2%    3.7% 
*Inoudes Stoen's _std she of ualoctd Yug!a's debt haWg in 1993.



56                    Annex 2
Page 1 of 19
THEIUE1POLC OF SLOVENIA
Ministry of Fintnee
mbet Juno 17, t993
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONVTUCTION AND DVLOPMENT
181   H Stv N.W.
WASHINGTON. D.C. 2043
UNITD STATES OF AMERICA
MR. LEWIS T. PRESTON
PRESIDENT
SLOVENIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELPMENT POUCY
Phon.t 061 165211
a¢ et061 214 edO



Annex 2
+-   57                Page 2 of 19
Dear Mr. President,
1.   We are writing you this letter on behalf of the Government and Bank of Slovenla
regardlng our reform of the Slovene enterprise and finanolal sectors. Since Independence
In 1991, the people and the Government of Slovenia, kVithin the framework of a new
politcal democacy, have endeavored to eradicate the deep- rooted structural problems
Inherited from the Yugoslav economic system. Our fundamental objective Is to achieve
asubstantlal and sustained Improvementof Slovenia!s growth performance and .standard
of livng. We are aware that such an objective can be achieved ordy through the
transformation of Slovenla's soclaly- based economic system Into a modern market
economl system. We are resolute In pursuing our fundamental objective In a reasonably
short period of time,. and we request the assistance of the World Bank in the design,
Implementation, and finance of our structural reform program.
2.   As you may know, our present economle difficulties have their roots In the ealy
post-WW 11 period, when Slovenla was part of the Yugoslav federation and adopted an
economio system based on the socil ownership of the means of production. The serious
deficlencies of the Yugostav economic system were masked by excessive recourse to
foreign borrowing during the 1970s. lowever, these deficiencies became visible In the
1 980, when access to foreign finance was curtailed and Yugoslavia was forced to repay
Its foreign obligatlons. AHthough. Yugoslavia was able to generato Increasing current
surpluses during thls period, It did not succeed In achlieng Internal equilibrium, as
Indicated by a stagnart real GDP and Increasing rates of infation.
. Sever attempts at stabilization during tha 1980s did not succeed In reducing
Ifltion and restoring grwth due to their falure to remove the fundamental roots of
Yugoslavia!s problems: the perverse microeconomic Incentives generated by the lack of
an advocate for capital in sodally-owned enterprises, and the lose connecdons between
enterprIses and banks. As a result wage pressures remained excesive. aggregate
Investment fell, and a large number of enterprises continued to generate loses.
Moreover, these losses were financed by para-fiscal transfers and impllct subsldies
through low interest credits and arrears, resulting, as mentloned above, in persistently
high Wnflaton, resoure misallocation and stagnant economic activ.
4.   In addition to these structual problems inherited from the Yugosliv system,
Slovenla has also experienced a series of adverse exdemal shocks since ts poliical
Independence. We were partcularly affected by the collapse of trade with the former
Yugoslavia and with the former COMECON, by the confiscation of property of Slovene
enterprises In the former Yugoslavia, by the lack of access to the foreign exchange
reserve held by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and by a severe flooding In 1991.
Slovenia was also affected by the June 1991 aggression of the Federal Yugoslav army
and by the ongolng war.in some other republics of the former Yugoslavia. As a result of
*  this war, there ae today about 70,000 refugees In Slovenla, or the equivalent to 3.5% Of
the total population.



Annex 2
58                    Page 3 of 19
S.   We have designed and he started to Implement a program of economic reforms
which Is internally consistent and addresses the roots of our economic difficulties. Th7e
reform of the enterprise and banking sectors t at th core of our program. Thls core
element Includes the prvatizatlon of most socially- owned enterprises, resticting State
ownership to a limited number of enterprise providers of public seMces, reform of the
governance and regu!saton of this publio sector, the curtailment of the ownership links
between enterprises and banks, friancial rehabilItaon and prlvatlzation of banks, and lhe
necessy labor market adjustment. We will fully Implement these fundamental
microeconomic reforms under a stable macroeconomic ftramework which Indudes, Ida
nRa the maintenance of a social safety net and the establishment of supportive and
consistent fiscal and Incomes policies.
Recent Progress Tn staiflzti.
S.   Despite Inherited ftucral problems and a very adverse external economic
environment, we have already made substantial progress In achleving macroeconomic
stability since our final Independence fom the former Yugostav federation in October
1991. A new currency - the Slovene Tofr - was Introduced In October 1991, allowing
Slovenla to Implement a stabilzaton program aimed at reducing the high rates of inflation
and Increaslng the critially low level of foreign reserves. The program induded a sharp
rea devaluation of the exchange rate, tight monetary and fiscal policies, and severe
restrictions on nominal wages In t Initial phase. It achivd a considerable success In
teducing inflaflon. from an av.erage monthly rate of inlafton of 18% at the start of the
progrm to 12%. 8%, 2% and 2% In the four quarters of 1992, respectIvely.
7.   S     al progress has aso been achieed In strengthening the fragile reserve
posilon heSd by Sovena at he sat of s Independence The real devalation and the
tight demand poicies led to a curret account surplus of US$ 750 miMlon In 1992.
equivalent to 6.6% of GDP. This current account surplus contributed substantially to the
fast buld-up of foreign reserves - from only US$ 200 million In mid-g991 to US$ t1170-
mlillon In February 1993, equWent to three months of Imports. This Improvement was
achieved despite the lmplementatlon of trade llberazatlon measures that led to a
decrease In the average Import tariff to less than 10% at the end of 1992.
8.   The stabilization program met Its two objectives at the cost of further contractions
In activity, however. Indeed, the tight demand poicies aggravated the Impact of adverse
exterm  shocks and resulted In a severe decline In real GOP: 9% and 7% during 1991
and 199, respectively. The contracton of actvity has also been accompanied by a sharp
Increase In the rate of unemploymeft from only 3% In the late 1980s to 13% at the end
Of 1992.



AnneX 2
59               Page 4 ofl9
9.   We are now facing a difficult transitional period, as the above.mentloned
macroeconomic Improvements were achieved under similar distorted microeconomic
fundatlons that led to hyperiniation and economic stagnation in the I 980s. We are aware
that absence of effective control over wages durlng 1992 (real wages have Increased by
more than 30% after the expiraton of a restrictive wage law In February 1892), the
persistence of enterprise losses, and the critcal liquidity situation of our banks threaten
monetary and price control, as well as the Intiation of a sustained recovery of output
Therefore, we have already started Implementing components of our enterprise and
banking reforms, and are already providinq fiscal support to these reforms. We have also
introduced other corrective macroeconomic measures, such as a temporary freeze on
nominal wages. We will conUnue to providethe fiscal support necessary for the full
Implementation of our mlcroeconomic reforms, and will also continue to restrain nominal
wages during the whole period of transition.
10.  Our progmm of structural reforms will consolidate the galns achieved by the
stabMzation program and Is also expected to reverse Slovenla's long-run economic
declne We envisage a long-run scenaro where fixed investmrnt Is Increased from the
current low level of 18.5% of GDP, to around 21-22% of GDP, output grows at S% p.a.,
and current account surpluses are kept at moderate levels. Such a scenario Is feasible
nid destrable as Slovenla's per eapita incomedoes not lustifvthe permanentgeneration
of large capital exports. In order to achieve this growth target, we realze that the
envisaged Increase In the level of Investments has to be accompanfed by an Increase In
*their efficiency. This Is why our program Is centered on reforms at the microeconomic
level - the enterprise and banking reforms. We also realize that th achievement of a
oonsistent program requires further adjustments In macroeconomlo poldcies, partIculy
In the areas of iscal and Incomes podices.
11.  We undersand that two types of actions In the fiscal area are required to achieve
a consistent reform program. First fIscal pollcy must Include ful support to the
restructuring of banks and enterprses, as well as to the social safety net. Second, we
also need to reduce the excessively high levels of general expenditures and revenues,
In order to reduce the role of the State In resource alocaton and make more room for.
the expansion of the prvate sector. Our fiscal program Involves the immediatechannalling
of resources to restructuring programs - In order to enable their implementation - and a
rmedium-run reduction In the levels of general expenditures and revenues.



60             ~~~~Annex 9
60               Page 5 of 19
12.  As mentioned above, we have already started providing fscal support to the
restructuring of our enterprises and banks, and will Increase the support lo thesb
programs to the levels required for their full biplementation. During 1993. the fiscal
suppo.t to our restructurlng programs will amount to least 4.2% of GDP. This Includes at
least 0.8% of GDP for bark restructuring, at least 1.2%6 of GDP for enterprise
restructuring, and at leat .1 %. of GDP for social expenditures directly related to
economic restructurng. The additlonal Iscl support to our restruoturing programs In
1993 amounts to at least 2° of GDP, as In 1992 we did not provide support to bank
rehabilItation, and we provided much less support to enterprise restructuing and the
social safety net.
13. The fiscal support to our restructuding programs will Increase to 5.4% of GDP
durting 1994, In order to enable the full financial rehabilitatlon of our banks. This Includes
at least 2.3% of GDP for bank resucturing, at least 0.9% of GDP for enterprise
restructurIng, and at leat 2.2%  of GDP for social expenditures directy related to
economic restructuring. We are committed to providing the necessary support to these
programs In 1995 and In the following years, and have expressed offcially such a
commitment In our budget memorandum - a document which lays out a medium-run
fiscal program and which has been presented to the Slovene Parliament and the Slovene
popultion.
14.  We understand thatthese additionalfiscal exenditures should not be permaently
added to current level of expenditures, as they would lead to excessiet levels of general
government expenditures. Indeed, although the general government has been able to
generate small surplss (2.6% and 0.4% of GDP In 1991 and 1992), both gereral
revenues and enuei inreased to 47.5% and 47.1 of GDP In 1992. These ratios are
very high for a middle-noome country, and reflect a heavy tax burden and substantial
Stae Intervention In rsoce asl9caUon. Moreover, these additional Sca expenditures
should not result In permanent fis  deficits elther, as that could hinder te required
recovery of Ixed Inestnt and outpur
15.  Although the need to niiate th reforms justifies an immediate Increase In
expenditures to 49.1% of GDP, and the shift of the general budget Into a deffcit of 2% of
GDP In 1993, we Intend to reduce both general expenditures and revenues to levels
around 44% of GOP by 1997. This Implies that expendltures vwb be reduced at a faster
pace, especiallythose not related to economic restructuring. To this end. wewAll limitnthe
genral de1cI to at most 2% of GOP In 1994, to at most 1.5% GOP In 1995, and will
reduce It furher in the following years. General expenditures and revenues will decine by
at least 1% d o GP In 1994, and will declne uhrter in 1995 and In the followdng yeas,
expenditures declining faster than revenues in order to reduce the deficit and drive both
revenues and expenditures to Ehelr medlum-term targets.



61                       Annex 2
Page 6 of 19
1.  This medium-run fiscal contractlon will be arsociated, Inter aiim, with a rductIon
in pension and health exenditures, as these are among the expenditure items lhat have
growrn more rapidly In the recent years. Indeed, the rato of pension expenditures to GDP
Increased from about 8% In the latter part of the 19S0s, to 12.7%o mainly as a result of
early retirement schemes, In 1992, and could reach 14% of GDP In 1993. Pension benesfit
In Slovenla are slgnlfloanty hlgher than In countrles with s1mllar per capita Income, and
are also higher than the  erage for the OECD countries. Moreover, the financing of
pension and health expenditures, and unemployment compensaon, has required an
Inrease In contdbution rates to almost 60% of wages, which tends to discourage
employrnent, the development of small private enterprlses, and may also be having a
detrimental Impact on naional savings. Therefore, the continuation of the past poicies
would Impalr the prospects for higher growth of output and employment In the medium
and long-runs.
17.  In order to achieve our medlum-term fiscal twgts, we wll continue the reform of
the pension system lntliated In 1992. The measures that were adopted In 1992 and In the
irst half of 1993 have Included an Increase In the retlrement age for men and women by
half a year, every year, te Imposilon of a limi of 85% on the ratlo of the aveage full time
pension to the average wage Oinstead of the forner mtnimum of 85%), and a more restric-
tive adjustment of pensions to wage developments. The latter measure has limited the
adjustment of pensions to the growth In nominal wages two months earner (the period
required for the computaton of wage figures), thus eliminating the excessive adjustment
which was caused by adding th estimated wage growth In the intermedate month.
These measures have already restriced the. growth of pension expenditures, as the
average ful time peson was close to 90% of the average wage In eady 1993. During the
second half of 193 the Govemment will resrict fuher the adjustment of pensions, by
broadening the bae for pension adjustments to Include al average Incomes subjed to
the payment of contribuons to fe pension fund. As a result of thse dwanges, a fther
escalaion of pensIon expenditures wl be lnterupted and the Goverment wiesure that
the ratlo of pensions to GDP Is rimited to at most 13.5% during 1993.
18   During 1994 we wvlU Ilnroduce additonal measures so as to reduce the ratio of
pension expenditures (defined so as to Include all payrnents to pensioners) to GDP to
12.5% and to 11.5% In 1995 The measures that are expected to be Introduced Include
the acclerateon of the ongoing lncrae In the retirement age to one year (Instead of a
half year) each yea for both men and women, the increase In the retirement age of.
women so as to reduce the difference between men and women from five to three years,
and the broadening of the assessment period for the calculation of the pension base,
from the ten best years to the twenty best years over each Indhivduars workdng lfe. This
latter measure should be Introduced for both new and existing pensioners, thus tightening
the ink between contributions and benefits, and severing the link between current
pensions and wages. We wil submit these changes to Parliament upon completion of the
study on the entre penslon system, which will take place during the first quartr d 1994.



Annex 2
62                Page 7 of 19
19.  In case these measures prove Insucient to bring pension expenditures to the,
targeted levels, we will adopt changes In Indexation rules governing the adjustment of
nominal pensions, or adopt aternatve measures, so as to reach these targets. Together
w1th the Govemments plan to expand the role of voluntary health Insurance, these
measures should result In a derease In general flcal exenditures of almost 3% of GOP,
thus contributing sinifficantly to the medium-run fiscal adjustment Moreover, we Intend
to combine the reduction In penslon and health expenditures with a shift of non-eanings
related expendures from the penslon fund to the central budget (and their Inancing
through other taxes), so as to allow a reduction In the total of contributon rates from the
present 49% to at most 42% In 1995.
20.  We wm finance the projeded genera government deficit through the Issue of
Government obligations and witut recurse to cental bank oredits. We deem the
projected financing requirements fasUble, given the current and projected values of
private fixed Investment and the current and projected levels of our current and capitl
gccounts. We also understand that the envisaged medium-run reduction of the Ilsol
deficit Is necessary to make room for the expeted recovery of fixed Invesment and
shield the current account from excenssie presures. Our projetons take Into account
the disbursements of the proposed loan, which will help us finance these transitory
deficts, continue to honor our cexal oblgations, and avold undue pressure on the
finandal system.
1i-d     gn                                             *
21.  We wll imnplement and maintain a comprehernsve wage poliy duig th whole
period of transiton, In order to prevent an excessive growth of wages with detimental
ffects on the finances of enterprses, Nlation and th cumnt accounL As mnnioned
preioudy, the absence of effectIve wage regulation sine February 1992 has rested In
substantal wage irncreases: more than 30% In red tems and 40% hI German Marks.
Such wage pressures were lntlated In the ntprise sector but spiged over to the publc
sector, due to previous collotive agreemernt lriking wages In the two sectores Givn
these advere developments, we Introduced a law In early 1993 which aslowed us to
delink wages In the two sectors indefinitely and to ree  wages In the public sector until
May, 1993. The law has also allowed us to reverse some of the recent wage lncra
In the enterprise sedor (wages In March were 3% below the February lev sand we
expect further deellnes In April) and to subject wages In the economic sector to an
xremely restrictive Indexaton scheme (amounting pramcally to a wage freee) untl
June, 1993.



63                     Annex 2
Page 8 of 19
22.  We wll continue to maintaln a estrictive wage policy through new colectve
agreements with the enterprise and pubflo sectors Immedlatelyater the explration of th6
current wage law, and wil mairnain this polc3y during the whole period of transition. This
policy will Include five, mutually reinforcing, components: (I the permanent severance of.
direct legal linkages between wages In the two sectors; (IQ ensuring that wage Increases
Immedlately alter the expiraton of the present law will not take place; (IQ the subjection
of wages In both sectors to a partial Indexadon scheme establishing that wages In both
setors are not adjusted If the monthly rat of Ilation Is less than 3%, and are only
partially adjusted If hnfation exceeds th11at L In addtikn, Inffation developments In the
frst half of 1993 wIll not be considered for purposes of Indexation. Wis wil! monitor the
change In 1he average wago to verify oompliac with these rules; (Ov) the reimposion
of wage reostions on both sectors ftrough new legislation, if no safactory progress
Is made In conduding new oullectlve agreements, or I enterpfies do not comply with the
agreements; and (v) the maintenance of additional restrictons on wages through existing
legislation for enterprlses that are Illiquld, or have tax arrears, or generat losses.
23.  Our fical and Incomes policies wll allow the Bank of SloveQna to contnue
conducting a restrcve monetaiy policy and to maintain Inflation at low levels. We intend
to keep Inlatlon (as measred by the Decomber to December changes In the retal pdce
Index4 below 25% In .1993 and to reduce It further durng 1994. We wll conclude the
design of a comprehensive medium-termn macroeconomic program with the World Bank
and wi Implement this program under the present loan.
E3L8_g1QLB3t
24. We have reted, ihin he mac roeconomicamework  our adiustment progarna
* our rolve to implement a strong and Vigorous progrm  of strucW   reform In the
enterprise and banking sectors. We recogzn thatthe current structure of ownerhip and
goverance In socially-owned, mbied, and State- owned enterprises has substantially
Impeded the response of the enterprises to the new Incentives environment. Our.
pre-eminent objecive in the enterprLse sector Is, therefore, to privatize all anterprfes In
Industry, trade and services cept In a imted number of commercial public services,
and to reform the system of governance and regulation of State-owned enterprises. Since
total losses of socially-owned enteprises amounted to 15% of GDP In 1992, the reform
program wil emphasze measures tht would frt contain and subsequently reduce these
losses. We have made important progress In developing the legal and Instituional
frmework for enterprise reforms. We wvil ftRher develop this legal and regulatory
frarnework with a view to accolerang prvate ector development and fostering
competiUon.



64                    Annex 2
Page 9 of 19
OrsYhio lRform and Erffizatlon of Sogb1my_-Qwnad Enteorlaos
25.  Until today, we have made modest progress In partial sale of social property. In
corporaUzatlon of socially-owned enterprises, In establshment of joint ventures with.
rmajority private ownership, and In the sale of sodally-owned enterprises in their entirety
to private invesors. However, In view of the limitations of the legislative framework.
Parliament adopted, on November 11, 1992, the Law on OwnershlpTransforrnatom. This
new privatizatlon law was amended on June 2, 1993. The Law safeguards the Interest of
previous owners and addresses restion isUses without nhbting the process of
transformation. The Law became effectve on June 6, 1993. We Intend to ensure the
* expeditious Implementation of this law which governs about 2,700 Slovene enterprises.
28.  Transformation under the Law will result In conversion of a sodalowned
enterprise Into a shareholding company on the basis of Its capital after revaluation. The
* Law stipulates that 20% of the shares of an enterprise must be reserved for acquisitlon
by employees using ownership cortiflcates. Forty percent. of the shares will be allocated
*for sale through employee purcklases. pubic tender, and public auction and sae. To this
end, employees wilJ be given the right of first refusal, wih a 50% discount on the price
of the shares. The remaining 40% wll be freely allocated as follows: 10% to the
Compensaion Ftnd, 10% to the Pension Fund, and 20% to the Development Fund (the
Fund) which wil sel tis share In exchange for ownership certificates to newly created
Speclal Investment Funds. The Law explctly alows the sale of a company In Its entirety,
or the sale of the controllWng Interest In a company. In such csues, the Compensation
Fund, Pension Fund, and Specal Investmrent Funds wIl be compensated In cash from
the proceeds d such sales.
27.  For the benefit of fe population at large, the Law stipulates Issuance of ownership
certificates (equent to 40% of the ta socidal capital of enterprises) for free distribution
among all citzes of Slovea. Tiese  c    which wil have a nominal value of SIT
100,000 lo SIT 400,000 and shall be non-transferable, will be distributed according to age,
vith those who are under 18 years of age reciving certiicates valued at the bottom of
the range and those who ar over 48 receIMng certificates valued at the top qf the range.
'The ownership cerficates could be used by our citiens for acqulstilon of the shares of
Special Investment Funds or the shares of companies offered through public sale. The
employees of an enterprise will have the additonal option of using their cerUifcates to pur-
chase the shares reserved for them. We intend to adopt Implementing regulations for the
distribution and use of ownership certficates by September 30, 1993.



Annex 2
65             Page 10 of 19
28.  The Law requires that enterprises tnliate thelr transformaton, The transformation
will be guided and monitored by theAgencyfor Privatization (the Agency). All enterprise4
subject to the Law must voluntariy transform by June , 1994, which Is within 12 months
of the effective date of the Law. In case of non-compliance, the transformation rights of.
the enterprise wil be tmnsferred to the Agency. We Intend to closely monitor progress
of these transformatiorn, and to take, If necessary, prompt action to modify the legislatIon
and arrangements to ensure effective transfer of controllIng Interest In the enterprlses to
private owner We wll ensure that the privaUzatlon of 400 of the enterprises, accounting
for 20% of vlue added by all enterprises subject to this law, Is completed by mid-1 994.
29. The Agency and the Fund are the princIpal Institutions In charge of Implementation
of the Law on Ownership Transformation. These Institutions which we established In
December 1990, In accordance with the 1989 Yugoslav Federal Law on Social Capital,
have gained considerable experience in privatization. The Agency is responsible for
setting the guidelines and approval of the transformation programs submitted by
enterprises and for valuaion of the enterprises In cases required by the Law. The Fund
is charged with the management and disposal of the shares It acquires during fe
process of tranformaton. The liquid assets and the revenues of the Fund shall be used,
In compRance with spedal laws, for. restructuring banks, export promotion, technotogical
development and ecological improvement and development of small business. We intend
to 5upport and strengthen these Institutions as necessary for success of the Program.
New laws on the Agency and the Fund were adopted by the Parliament In conjunction
wh the adoption of the Law on Ownership Transformation.
3o.  'To support the prlvatization process end the emerging private sector In industry,
we have initated a piot program of In-depth studies In several subsectors. These studies
re assessng the strengths and weaknesses of the subsectors, comparing their
compeldtvenessvs-a-v1s simfarsubsectors In other market economies, and providing our
enterprises wih Information on technologicat, ecological and manaerial developments
in the West Preimkary results of this pilot program are encouraging and we Intend to
extend it to other brancs of Industry.
31. We are committed to strictly limiting State ownership, In the medium-term, to
enterprises In the folowing designated subsectors: electric power generation.
transmissIon and distribution, gas distribution, rairoad subsector, road construction and
maintenance, sea and air ports, telecommnunlicatiOnpostal senrices, and water distribution
and other municipal public sices. The Law on Commercial Public Services which was
adopted on June 2, 1993, provides the legal foundation for conversion of all
socialy-owned enterprises In the designated commercial public services subsectors into
State-owned enterprises. We wll complete the conversion of the above sodially- owned
enterpdses Into State-owned enterPrises by mid-1994.



66                    Annex 2
Page 11 of 19
a2.  We wlil, In parallel, Inttlate privatzatlon of State- owned enterprises end diestiture
of State shares In mbxed enterprises In all other productive and commercial services
sectors as soon as possible. Since the Law on Ownership Transfrmratlon exclude'
privatizatlon of State captlal, we wRl Instruct the Agency to divest the shares of the State,
In enterprises with mixed ownership at the time of privaIkation of the social capital In
these enterptises. We Intend to prepare a program for prvatzatlon of the current
State-owned enterprises by mid-1994. We Intend to Implement 30% of this program by
May 31, 1995 and the balance one year later.
33.  For the State-owned enterprses In publc services, we wlll reform and Improve the
system of governance and sepaate the Govermmenrs ownership function from Rs policy
and regulatory roles. We wMi, ftrefore, consoldat State ownership of Stae- owned
enterprlses In a newly created Treasury and will continue to strengthen ts functions.
State-owned enterprises wil be Incorporated under the Company Law adopted by
Parliament on June 2, 1993. We wil estabish by mid-I 994, within the legal famework, the
principles governing the operaton of the State-owned companles and the requirements
relatng to the accountablity of these compardes. In addion, In order to assure sra
Independent operting framework we will appotnt, by mid-1994, boards of directors br
all these companhes. The maJorit of the members of these boards will be Independent
non-govemmental profesionals of high sanding In the community. We ill establish
Independent regulatory systems for the designated sectors, In order to create an
environment conduch to private sector entry and development and to prevent
monopolistic behavlor and to protect the pubie Inrerest. We Intend to nmi below cost
pricing and In these cases the Government shall transparently compensate the
companies for profs forfeited or losses Incurred. We wil Implement these structural
reforms In the State-owned enterprises, and prepare specil" laws for the energy,
tolecommunlcalon, and ralways subsectotswhich wllgovemthe organtzaton and define
the regulatory framework for these subsectors, and specify those activities wtdch will be
privatlzed In the medlum-term. We wRl submit these laws to Parliament by mid-1994.
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
34. During 1992, total accounting losses Incurred by 4.930 enterprises amounted to
SIT 169 billion, or 17% of GDP. One hundred large loss-making enterprises accounted
for 73% of this total. Among this laer group, 19 enterprses. that are or wIlU become
State-owned enterpises, accounted for approximately 56% of the group's losses, and 81
socially-owned enterprises accounted for the balance.



Annex 2
67                Page 12 of 19
38.  The 19 enterprises In the ist category belong to the steel, elecic power and
ralDways subsecors. We will delop medlum-term restructuring programs for these
subsectors which wDi aim at reducing losses In these enterpriess by measures that
Include financlal and organzational restructuring, closure of non-viable Ones and units, 
material and energy effciency Improvements, ecological enhancernent and labor
reduction. For the steel subsector, whlch despite considerable effort we have not been
able to privatize In Its present condifton, we have already developed a program in
accordance with the above objeeWes. We will conUnue the Implementaton of this
program, which will be adjusted as necessary, and to stem losses In the steel subsector
by mid-1994. A restructwing program for the railways subsector Is currently being
developed In cooperaltion oth the EBRO. We vdil complete the development and Initiate
implementatlon of this program by mid-1994. For the power sector, where the prlnclpal
cause of losses Is Inadequate prices, we have prepared a plan for prdce adjustments to
stem these losses and have Initiated atudies to develop a long-term basis for regulating
power prices. We wn Implement the ptice adjustment plan, Including modiflcations as
necessary, and finalie proposals for future regulation of power prices.
38.  The second catgoryot oss-making enterpris swil be dealtwih through the bank
rehabflltalon program. We have expedited thls process through a special program
Introduced by the Government in August 1992. Under this program, enterprises In need
of assistance w'ere invited to transfom, on a voluntary basis, into commercial companies
owned by the Fund. The program Is being executed by the Fund In cooperation wlth the
MInistry of Economic Activities, the Mndstry of Labor, Family and Social Affalrs, the Bank
FRehabilitation Agency (BRA), and the Agency. Its aim Is to rapidly Implement short-term
restructuring bading to privatization of viable partcipating enterprises, and closues of the
norwnable entprises.
37. Ninety sbc enterprises accounting for tota losses of about SIT 35 billion In 1992, and
for a total employment of 55,000 he joined this progrmThe tresormatlon pross
f for these enterpries and assessment of their Viabily has been completed. Eleven
companis hawe ben put In bankruptcy and an additonal 6 wIll be placed in the
procedure, shorly. The debt of 50 enterprises has been rescheduled based on
agreements. reached with their crediors. Eleven companies have been sold and
procedures/negotlatons for sale of another 25 are quite ad- vanced. We expect to have
privatized or liquIdated 50% of this group of compardes by end 1993.
L_IMFramework PivaS
3& Private enterpdses enjoy a favorable envlronment due to existing enterprise, foreign
investment, and Intelectual property laws In Slovenla. This Is evidenced by the rapid In-
crease. In private sector adcty durlng the 1991-1992 pelod.The number of registered
private companies increased from some 5,300 In mid-1991 to more than 18,000 by
end-I 992. This hat led In turm to sharp Increases in employment by the private sector
from some 12000 to over 28,000, as wel as In contribution to total revenue from 5.8%
to 11.4%.



Arnex 2
68              Page 13 of 19
39.  In view of the timing of the privatiaon program, we submnited to Parliament
during 1993, a Law on Notadal Services, and a Law on Auditing, and Intend to submitA
new updated Securities MarketLegislation.The Securitles and ExchangeCommisslonwili
be established as an Independent regulatory body, with considerably enhanced capacity,
to supervise the Inrvestnent market, Inctuding the activities of the Stock Exhange.
Folowing enactment of.the Companies law, new accounting stndards wil be applied.
40.  We recognize that the exlstingbarrlers to efficient exit from the market for Insolvent
firms must be removed as much as possible. We have submitted b Parliament draft
legislation on bankruptcy. A new law on protection of compettion was adopted on April
2,1993. The law of Commercal Pubic Servces will establish the legal framework enabling
contracting by the State wth private enterprises for the delivery of public services.
41.  We also recognize that a secure and predictable system of cogateral Is essential
to the growth of credit to the private sector and the development of.flnanclall viable
banks. As a result, the Government Is comrmitted to modernlizng the sytem of real estate
and mortgage regtstrton.whle the registration of security interests on movables wil be
dealt with In the Law on Notarial services.
~ankrin Seatr Befom
42.  We Intend to accelerate the process of reforrn In the bLnklng sector which was
launched In 1990, wfth the adoption of the new legal framework for banking. Since that
time, the banks have been auadited twice, and as a result, we understand better today the
seriousness of the banks' financial weaknesses and the negatve consequences of the
control th  the owner-enterprlses have exerted on the ban' lending decisions.
Consequently, the Government has begun to Implement a progran to restore the banks"
*inanec heah and effiiency. His program Is being Implemented In close coordination
wth the program to reform the enterprise sector. It will progressively change the banks'
ownership structure and reshape the conffguration of the banking system to better serve
the needs of the Slovene.economy. The program will also Improve prudential regulations;
bolster the supervisory capabirities of the Bank of Slovenia, and lead to privatization of
the banks.



Annex 2
69               Page 14 of 19
43.  The 1991 laws on the Bank of Slovenla and on Banks hava provided a
comprehensive framework for goveming banking activities and empowered the Bank ot
Slovenla to regulate and supervlse banks. The Bank of Slovenla has already established
minimum capital adequacy rules, exernal auditing and reporting procedures, loan
classification and provisioning guidellnes, and licensing procedures which will, by
end-1995, force the banks to signiicantly increase capial or consolidate. n will strangthen
'the regulatons for loan olassflcaon and provisloning, Introduce Interest suspension and
adjusLt he capitl adequacy requirements to sUsll?y r1fianatW"Onal standards by June 30,
1993. We wiI, by that date, submitto ParlIarneht amendments to the Banking LYw to Inter
alla Improve bank governance, to limit the banks' exposures In equlty Investments and
to groups of related borrowers, to Increas6 entry capital and upgrade capital adequacy
requitements, and to empower the Bank of Slovenia to prescribe bank accounting rules
and auditing requirements. We expect that these amendments will be adopted by
Parliament, by mid-1994. Thereafter, the Bank of Siovenia will adapt regulations to con-
* form to these amendments, and ensure that banks apply these regulatons In preparing
thi 1993 fInancIal statements.
44.  In 1991, we also lntroduced the Law on Rehabilitation, Bankruptcy and Uquidation
of Banks and established the Bank Rehabilitaon Agency (BRA). This Law altows the
Governor of the Bank of Slovenla to Impose prrehablitMion procedures for aty bank
with potential losses exceeding 30% of capital, and full rehabilitation measures when the
losses exceed 60  In imptementlng rehlablMatlon procedures, the BRA has powers to
take over the bank suspend management, supersede the rights of owners, force the
write-oft of losses agast capital, assume losses, and recapitalize, merge or privaiz the
bank. We will submit to Parliament, by June 30,1993, amendments to this Law which will
faciltate BRA retucturng operations and privalzaon of rehabilitating banks. We expect
4that these amendments wil be adopted by Parliament, by miid-199
3anBk &    Wdug ZxEsram
45.  The Bank Restructuwing Program, whch we have already inliated, includes two
principal components. The first component Introduces the assumption of control by the
BRA and the Initiation of rehabflitation procedures for all seriously undercapitalrzed banks
In the banking system. The second component Involves the exchange of 6ank claims
against the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) with bonds Issued by the Republic of
Slovenia to enable the banks In Slovenla to repay or compensate for the frozen foreign
currency deposits. We expect, through this program, to generate an immediate reduction
In the excessively high Intermediation spreads and real lending rates which have
burdened enterpises and discouraged irwestment activty. At the saene time, the program
will provide the dring force for the restructuring and privatizatlon of the enterprise sector.
It will introduce a major change In the ownership of the banks and curta links between
bank owners and borrowers. We also Intend to take advantage of the opportunity offered
by the Implementation of the program to help reshape the configuration of and enhance
competition In the baniwng system. We wall privatize the banks at the earliest opportunity
and remain open to Intematlonal lnvestment In the banking sector. Before mid-1994, we
will develop the core elements of our privatization strategy for banks under rehabilitation.



Annex 2
70                 Page 15 of 19
Our goal Is to limit to no more than two years the process of rehabilitation of any bank
before proceeding with pilvatizaton. By mid-1984, we will privatize at least one bank.,
48.  To support the objectives of the program In reconfiguring the banking system, the
Government is determined to transform the structure of the group of thirteen banks in the
Ljubljanska Banka system (LBS), which today domlnates the banking sector. We have
already requested the shareholders of twelve LBS member banks to decide either to
become Independent banks, or to mnerge with LB d.d. or with other banks. We will take
follow-up actions, If necessary, to ensure timely reorganization of LBS and will lnformn the
Bank of these actions. We will ensure that this process results, before mid-1994, In the
reorganization of the LBS structure and that no bank within the banking system holds
more than 40%A of the system's total deposits.
47.  To provlde the necessary funding for the Implementation of the Bank Rehabaitation
Prograrn, the Parliament has adopted two key laws authorizing us to Issue bonds, and
to guarantee bonds issued by the BRA, for a total amount of approximately OM 3.2
-billion.
48. Under the first component of the program, the Bank of Slovenia has Intervened In
the case of two LBS banks which are Insolvent, and which account for about 57% and
61 % of the total assets and total problem risk exposurs of the banking system. The BRA
has written off the 1992 opermng losses of these banks against capital. It has carved out
from these banks potential losses which had to be fully provisioned and the banks'
remaining net worth which was converted Into BRA subordinated debt -Former
shareholders can thus benefit In the future from any proceeds from the recovery of the
bad assets transferred to the BRA. We have provided for an amount of DM 1.6 bilion to
clean up the bad assets and doubtful guamntees and wvfl adjust this figuwe following the
results of special audits. The Bank of SIovenia has already Initiated the process for
rehabilton of the ftrd Insolvent LBS bank by requesting the bank's shareholder to re-
plenish the capial.
49.  We have adopted plans for the financal restructuring of two banks under
rehabilitaton which will assure achievement by these banks of a capial adequacy ratio
of 4%. We will subsequently ensure that the banks achieve, by mid-1994, a capia
adequacy ratio of at least this level, following th new rules to be established by the Bank
of Slovenia and through poslve operational cash flows. This will be confirmed through
external audits. We wlil also ensure that these banks achieve, by that time, satisfactory
progress In Implamenting insttonaldevelopment programs which strengthen their creait
and financial risk management processes, and their management lnformaton systems.
Furthermore, the Bank of Slovenia will initiate rehabilitaton procedures for any bank with
a capital adequacy rato below 50% of the minimum requirement.



Annex 2
71               Page 16 of 19
SO.  Under the second component of the program, the State wll exchange part of the
banks' claims against the NBY for bonds denominated In DM at 8% of Interest. This
exchange will be carried out inltlalyfor an amount of about DM 976 million, equivaientlo
the amount of frozen deposis In banks In Slovenia. The depositors have been offered a
set of opthons to recover their savings, Including the possibnities9 of conveting them Into
medium term deposits, subscribing bank stock, or receiving State bonds as immediate
* payment. This broad action will immediately Improve the profitability of the banking
system and will decrease the pressure of accumulated losses on lending rates. Although
no liquidity pressures have been experienced until the present the Government is awar'
of the liquidity risk of this arrangement. The Bank of Slovenia has committed to, and
designed the technical Instruments for; providing the necessary liquldity support to
Individual banks. If necessary, we will submit to Parliament, before mid-194, an
amendment reducing the maturity of the State bonds. In addition, we will authorize, by
that time, the banks to trade these bonds under condltions established by the Bank of
Slovenla.
51.  The BRA was established by a specal decree In 1991, with the mandate to carry
out bank restructuring In a manner that will minimize restructuring costs and speed up
bank earnings recovery, and to privatizethe banks. We Intend to substantallystrengthen,
within the next few months, the BRA's institutional capablity. To this end, the BRA's Board
has adopted formal plans for the operatons of the Agency, including it budget and
financial plan. We will ensure that by mid-1994, the Agency plans, and Its multiple-year
financial requirements, are updated to support bank restructuring. We wIll also ensure
that the BRA continues to have sufficient human, financial. legal and technicl resources
to exerdcs govemance over banks under rehabiftatIon. We will ensure that by mid 1994
the BOR'S goveming legislation Is modified to reflect Its expanded role and
responsibiltes.
52.  The BRA has appointed executive managers In the banks under rehablition, and
has decided to Instftute boards of directors to exercise govemance In these banks. The
members of these boards wll be appointed by mid-1994. The bank boards wil by that
time adopt performance Indicators and targets for the recovery of the respeotve banks.
Debt recovery responsibigltes wi be vested In the BRA, the banks, and In separate
work-out units under the authority of the BRA. The BRA has approved plans to separate
from the banks the work out units that will be charged with the recovery of carved-out
assets. Extemal audits of the operatons of these workout units will be completed by
mid-1994.



Annex 2
72               Page 17 of 19
53.  We Intend to link our strategy for debt recovery with the privatizalion and
restructuring, or liquidation, of socially owned enterprises. The BRA has substanfialty
completed the asset Inventorles and will ensure that the debts of the most adversely
classified borrowers are carved out from the portfolios of the banks under rehabIlitatIon.
by June 30, 1993. We expect these carve-outs to Include 34 large enterprises which
account for about 61% of the total enterprise problem debts In the banking sector and
29% of the losses of fht hundred largest loss makers.The carve-outs will be Implemented
by substMing bonds for the probtem debts. This will enable the BRA as the major
creditor to accelerate debt restructuring and to expedite the process of privatization or
liquidation of the enterprises. We Wil ensure that this process wil result, before mid-i 994,
In the restructuring of at least one third of the debtors ard one thlrd of the debts carved
out from the banks.
54.  For the banks under rehabilitation the BRA has established guidelines for the debt
recovery process. The Bank of Slovenla wllJ also Issue rules, by June 30, 1993, to be
applied by alt banks for debt restructuring. Compliance with BRA and Bank of Slovenia
guldelines will be conlirmed through extemal audis by mid-1994. Key to the debt
rescheduUng rules wil be the requirement for the borrower to demonstrate viability, to
accomplish satsfactory labor rationalization, and to present a feasible privatizaton plan.
55.  At the same time, the Government is dealng directywth a defined group of 19
enterprlses In the steel, power, and railway subsectors. Thts program has already resulted
In a substntl Improvement In the financial conditon of some banks by removing a-DM
250 mIllon porion of the exdstng debt of the steel enterprises.  *
nwJmgsuwm
56. Our program for reform of the banking sector Includes major enhancement of
prudential supervIsion. The Board of the 13ank of Sloverna wit adopt by June 30, 1993 a
comprehensive plan to reinforce Ia Bank Supervision Department The plan Includes the
development of on off-site surveilance and credit risk system, on-site examination
methodologies, dnd a comprehensive training and staff development program. This plan
wll set ime- bound targets wih a view to, within two yeas, Improving the supervisory
capacity to ensure adequate control of all banks In the system. We wil review progress
achieved and make the adjustments, as necessary, by mid-1994.



Anex. 
73                     Page 18 of 19
57.  We are aware that the achievement of sustained growth requires a relocation of
redundant labor In social enterpises towards privatized enterprises In the most dynamic
sectors. As a result of the legal and Institutional changes Introduted in the last two years,
there has already been a slgnifticant.reduction of redundant Iebor In the enterprise sector.
Thls Is reflected in the sharp increase In the rate of unemployment - from 3% In the late
1980s to the current level of 13.5%. Our reform program also contains labor and socIal
policies designed to facilitate the relocation of labor and to provide minimum support for
the unemployed. These policies comprise three Interrelated elements - reduced
restrlctions on hiring and firing workers, activelabor market poicies and adequate Income
assistance to the unemployed.
58.  The 1991 Slovene Labor Code reduces the perlod of prior notifcation to lay-off
redundant workers from 24 months to 6 months. Technologicallyredundant workers can
be reassigned, given early retirement, or compensated at the minimumn wage for up to
*    months before they are formally laid off. The 1991 Law on Unemployment insurance
provides unemployed workers with unemployment compensaton, training, assistance for
relocaton, and helth Insurance up to one year. Under the same law, workers can also
collect capitalized unemployment compensaton as a lump-sum payment If these funds
ae used for staring new business. To return the unemployed to the labor force or to
maintain employment, we are Implementing a variety of active programs, Including
aggressive training programs for the unemployed, cash grants for new hiring, subsidies
to maintain existing jobs, public employment programs, micro-enterprise Incubator
programst, and advisory services for self-employmenL Most of these programs have
proved effetive In Increasing employment. However, we realize that subsidies to maintain
employment In any gIen enteprise Is counterproductive and costly when It Is not
accompanied by restuuring and by prospects df improved finandal performance.
59. We Intend to kIprove our labor market and social safety net policies and to
appropdate adequate budgetary funding for the Incremental cost resultng from the
implementation Cf thie reform program. Specifically, In order to faciritate eitclent labor
relocation, we Intend to further simplify layoff procedures, reduce the burden on
enterprises In financing redundant workers by shortening the period of prior notiftaalon
for lay° offs to 4 months, suspend subsidies for job preservaton, and reduce subsidies
for early retirement We expect a further Increase In unemployment In 1993 (at least
30,000 additional unemployed) as a result of enterprise restructuring, and an Increase In
the cost associated with unemployment benefits and actve programs. To cover the
Increased expenditures, we Increased the budgetary provision to social programs directly
related to economic restructuring from 1.7% of GOP In 1992 to at least 2.1% of GDP In
1993.



Azmex 2
74               Page 19 of 19
60.  During 1994 and the following year we will contnue providing sufficlent flscal
support to the relocatlon of labor and the safety not, wile lso maing efforts to
streamine and Integrate al the IndMdual programs. We Intend, Inter age, to reduce
stgn¢lcantiy the maximum duration of the totl unemployment Insurance perlod, by.
shortening the period which an unemployed person Is entled to unemployment
assistance to six monfs regardless of his years of employment, We Intend also to limit
the maximum unemployment Insuance beneft to a level below the current level of four
times the mlnimum gua9teed wage, and restrict eligibilty criterla to reduce waste. We
also Intend to elmlmte any oerlapping between the unemployment Insurance program
and the sodial aosistarce pgrm  Support to those who remain unemployed beyond
the reduced perlod of Insurance wil be provided by the social assistance program only,
and will consist of mears-tested beneft based on family size.
Based on the polices and actions descibed or referred to In this letter, we hereW
request on behal of the Republio of Soveda a loa In an amount equivalent to US$
80,000,000 that would support the Governmens and the Bank of Stovenla!s efforts to
carry out the poram
Sincerely Yours.
Bank of Slovenla                    Republo co Slovenfa
Fr&tp42nce
Govermor                              nler



SLOVENU
AND BINANCIAL SEClTR ADJUSTMSI WAMN
MATIM OF KEY ACTIONS
Hcrasoiamic Reform
AREA                                ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                                      SECOW  TRAMUE
1.     Adoptfon of Supportive       Adoptfon of 1993 buet limitfng the gral budget   Adoption of 1994 bUget Limiting the general budget
Fiscl Policies              deficit to at ast 2% of GP, providing overall        deficit to at mst 2% of OP, providing overall support to
stpport to the reforms of at least 4.2X of DP, and   the reforms of at least 5.4Z of GOP, aW containing
containing miniam stwport to the key reform        minim  support to the key refom activities Includin.
activities including: Bank Restructurng--O.MX of    eank Restructurin--2.3% af MP; Enterprise testructuring-
GDP; Enterprise Restructurng--1.22 of GOP; end      -0.9X of GDP; and social Safety Uet--2.2X of GOP
Social Safety let--2.1X of GDP
Adoption of 1994 budget reducing genat eaeditues wrd
revemus by at least 12 of GDP.
*    ption of 1994 udget esmwrnc  Indicating the
necessary medium-rw  ficat l  pprt to the refom. This
should fnclude a redActfon in the general budget defcftit
to 1.52 of GOP In 1995, and a further reduction In the
share of geral expeditures end reeus to GDP In 1995
and the foltouing years.
2.     Penslin Reform               Adoptfin of measures to timit the ratio of pension    Adoption of measures to limit the ratlo of pension
eeWltures to GDP to at most 13.52 of GDP in 1993.  expenditures to CDP to at mast 12.51% of GDP In 1994.
Coptetion of study desig1ed to guide a Cerdeeive
pension reform, includirn the identifiaetton of iares
needed for the intra*wtion of a tue-tier pension spten.
Sadaissfen to Partifmt of revised pesion legislatfen
blch moutd: (I) Incra  the retr nt a  by e  yewr,
eah Va; (fi) increa  the retiret age of vaI so
as to redue the differene to th  of men fra 5 to 3
years; (mi) increae tho assesmi t period for the
culeutation of the pension bas frm the 10 best year to
the 20 best years.
Presentation of detalted a_easmnt of the ilgect of the
measures adopted In 1993 uW In 1994 an penion
expenditures In 1994. identification (if necesry) of
changes in fiwwtation ndu   or elttenstive me  s
rsWired to ruce pensio    editures to the 1994
target.
o Presntatin of a roveae.tl plen to shift ns-
eaninss related eoenitures frau the peslon fwsd to
the central budget In 1995.
# acti1am to be taken before June 30, 1993
I indicator of continuing progress



AIEA                                  ACTMIJ S TAKEI 10 DATE                                         IECUD TRAIC
3.      Adoption of Seportive          U Adoption of age poltcy for the economic sector       Maintenance awl satisfactory ieplmefntation of the wage
Incomes Potlcies              through cotlectfve agreeaunts and supprtive             poticy for the ecenomic awd naneconamic sectors, If
legistation containing the folloming restrictieons:    necessary, through adoption of new tegislation.
(I) Ensuring that bage Increases ImmadfateLy after
the expiration of the present Law wtil nat take
ptece; Cit) The Mdoption of a partiat Indeatfon
scheme estabtishing that   g  witl not be adjusted
if the monthly rate of infLation is betow 3X and
will be adjusted only partlalty If Inftation exceeds
that level.  in addition, Inflation dbeetopl ents In
the first half of 1993 dll not be used for purposes
of Indexation. The changes In the average wage will
be monitored to veriff corpliance vith these rules;
end (iMi) The maintenance of additionat wage
restrictions In the enterprises that are filiquid,
or have tax arrears, or that accumulate losses.
Kairteanmie of wae poelty for the noneconomlc
sector on s3milar bhees cnd restrictions as appifed
to the economic sector aid within the limfts ie osed
by the 1993 budget.
4.      Overall Nacreeconomic          Agree2ent on a madlus-tera acroeconswe framework      Satisfactory cooptlaie  with the owrceconomlc fra3evort.
Performuice                   futly ecnsistent with the objectives of the
icroeconomsc reforms.
to
0  actfon  to be taken before June 30, 19
f indicator of sontinulng progress



AREA                                 ACTItOS TAKE  TO DATE                                      5ECS t1A31
1.      PrivatlzattieRestructurlng   Enactmnt of the Lew on asorchtp Tratformstlcn.        Privatitlon of 400 socalty-omed  terrlses.
ccearnting for 20M  of th  value added contribution of
Delopxent of restnrturiqJprlvatizstlae or             *ll enterprifses slbject to the Law an Ornrtip
liquidation proan  for all 96 s    tclell-ned        Traswfor     n. e [Prlnvtlztation of tO  eterprise
entepies which  be omI th  prprt of the               currently eaed by the Develepent fend will cntritfe
Devel et  Fu.                                         to achieveme  of thfs target.1
2.      Refom of State-ewned         Adoption of legisltatfn  ltdc provides the leogal     Conversion of atl sociallyy-wned eterpri   In the
enterpries                   frameork for caotveina Into state-wined               dusuieted sbsectors of the c_ommil at        servces
enAterprise  of all salBtlyouud emterprises In the   into Stete-ear   enterprises.
folloing cowrcIal psble service st2tors:
electric powr generation, tranimssion and
distribution; gas distribution; railroad
tra    tion; road construction and maintenance;
see an airports; tatelamnicatlon; postal
serces; end water distribution and other maicipat
phl ic services.
EstabiLlaenmt of an spprcprlate goverone stnrture,
Ectabt lshmnt of a Treesury aduch, inter-alla, would   Including desigrntion of boerd  of directeor for state-
eerese the owasip fuactfin for the State.          owed entrlpses wd coan imd strengthenig of the
Treaury fimotil4
$lhSa len ri Parti ment of specfic l taf r the 
enery, telconuulctio anN  ra ltmy stsectors uici h
would, Inter-alla, gern  the oganizatin mad defim
tho regultory frarnrk for these sastos, wd
specify hse activities aAldc witl be privatised fn the
me#diutern
3.      Proram for Less-aIn         Oveqent of a medium-tem restructuring progrm           Isplemntatfon of this pow, adusted as necesary,
Enterpries                   for the steel  bshector.                             to stem loes In the steel saietor.
Adoption of a plan for price adjustments to stem      Implemeantation of the price adjtmnt plan, Including
losses In the poer oheector, end Initiation of the   further adjustments as necessary, and flnatizatotn of
necsry sudies to deveop a tom tem basis for           proposals for future regulation of pwr prices.
regulating per prices.
Progress In devlont of the restructuring program   Coopletion of the develtpnt end progress In the
for the railwp susector.                              Iwptemstatisn of this prwas.
4A



rankig S&ctor Reform
AREA                                 ACTIUS TAME  TO DATE                                       SEMMID TRAME
Oan ReantDSturlaPte
1.      Ilplementotlon at Bak*       Initiatifn by the 0S of tae rehabiftation process   Introdction by the BOS of rehabilitation procedue  for
Restrntsarg                  for me.                                              any benk In the system wat  a cAt of less thn half the
minim. requfred.
Adoption of satisfactory pltm for th  finanfal       Achievemet of at leat th  taget U CAR, conffrmd
restructuring of uLdd ai IBN sbich, based on         through satisfactory exteram  audits, en positive
consvtive projectilm, assure restitution of          cperatin  cash ftte for LOdd, lull mi KBIG In accordne
their finniatl condition, an  specificatly fdentffy   Ath the new Om reguations. Adjustsll    of th
the finncing and restruturing mechaism  required    mechnism  necessary to achlev  thed above cash fle   d
to achieve a CAR of 4                                CAR. Adoption an  a*levement of satisfactory pre  in
the fpltemttion by eocu  hwk ider rehabilitation of
fnstitutietal develoq*t progrc  which strenthen thefr
credit su finalinct risk  _Ingent proes"s, nd their
system of control and informatIon
2.      Restruturlge of the Le       Desgn of the actions, to be taken by the Goverent  Reorgizaticn of the LB System. Achfevst of a banking
System                       and Os, If necessary, folloeing the decisfirs of     structure wide  hich no instItutfon will hold mre th
te Genertl  Assedblies of LBS bw*s, to ensure        40X of the systems total deposits.
timely reorganzatfon of the LB sytem.
3.        A                          Approva by the B  Boawd of forml ptlas for the       isplmpme tation of plen including iudeting, as necesry,
operatlons of the Agewy.                             of BRAs ptlm, inctuding multti-yer financ3al
rewirements to supperot bank restructurng.
Decisoln by BRA to nominate a Board of directors In   Appointment by BRA of a Board In each bank  ider
each bank under rehabilitation responlbte for their  rehabilitatNto. Approal by bark boads of perfoac
institutional and finanial recovery.                 Indicato     ' -. targets for the recovery of each btn.
4.      Repqgment of Frozen Foreign   Decision by SOS and design of techical Instrunets   Rewision, If necessary, of the term  of the bonds
currAeny Deposits            to provide recesary liqudity suIport to Indivial  assigned to the bears to facilitate repepmnt of
bwis.                                                depsits. Approvalt by NO of tradire of bInds amu
bes,  ider conitili set by BOO. Rfeilon, as
meces.ary of the  ontingeny ptan.
DebtRe
S.      carv-eat of Problem Debts    Sthstantial ctpltetfn of te asset inwentories as    Restructuring or other Iapeprorate resolution for at
required by the oecree for Rabilitation.             least o  third of te debtors wd one third of the dets
carved-out frm the banks.
6.      Institutiaml Arrrwemt        Approal by the RA oUbard of pans for sepratins          s tement fro exterl auitors on the  ffiacial
the strctites of the bt tatrder rehabiRitation       coWition of amy entity chargd with responsibility for
from those Sporting the recov  of caved-out          managi  the carved-out assets.
* action  to be tak   before JAm 30, 1993
o  indfcator of oa|timi9  Pros



AREA                                  ACTIONS TAKEN TO DATE                                        SEc E TIANC
t.      uldelinem  for Debt           Appr tal by USA's Boad of SPA guidelines on            e Statemeat frm external auditors confirie copianet
aecvery                      recovery erd restrcurrig of debts carve   ut frm    with Ocard establshed polfcies for debt recavery.
the banks uder rehabiltitation.
9 Adption by Don of accosating guidelines for         e  Confirmation by extentl auditors th  credit rena.t
troihled debt restnrtLring applying to all banks.     extenion, nd restructuring for adverey ctasaffed
borres hs been In coplluae with the guidetines
issued by BOS, e by poticies adopted by the bt*s.
8.      Banking Law                   U  Ssuasswon to Partiint of satisfactory               Adaptlon of    ients b Paritent.  Adaptation by the
_menients to the Law whidut tpte minima entry          OS of priw rewtations to confom to the  ed  Law.
capital; erhance bu* soernance; extad lending
limlts to grous of related borrowrs; scify
Individual maximau fgwestsnt litmits; redce the
aegregte lamit for fixed assets end stocks to 60X
of each bai ks capital; incrase minima capital
adequacy to 8I by end 19; and, eowr 306 to set
coWulsorr regulatory eccoLntting prectices and
extewntl audit requirecmtts.
9.      8ank Rhebilftetfen Low.       9 sufvisafon to Parliujent of satisfactory             Adoption of aendno ts by Partlient.
mendzents to the Law siicb: oeiminato the zsxioua
limit of IZ on the share of any individual bank
shareholder to facititate bank governmco and
privatization; and euthori:e sOS to provide
teprary operational liquidity support to BRA.
10.     asak Rehabititation Asegu                                                            Adoption of new tegistation governing BWA reflectin  Its
Deree                                                                                 xanded role ad responsbitities.
II. B1   of slovena                       Adoption by ON of a decree er ens  the present  * Appication of th now rules by all anbs for the
Relationrs                    asst clasifIcation ard provisioning guldelines,        clasure of 1993 accomt.
including rutes for Interest soupension.
*  Adoption by 005 of capItal adequay rules to        e Adoption by SOS of new capital adequcy regulation to
ensure copatibility with the BIS standards, using     conform with the meded lning Law.
higher weights for risks and sustantially
dfacounting revaluation reserves for fixed assets
nd Investments.
12.     Institutional Developnent     I Adoption by the Board of the SOS of a plan to           Progrs  In impletentfng the plan.
enhance bank supervisory capabilities. includfng
tims-bound targets for implementation the main
components of the plan.
lank Prfvatfiztion
13.     Privatization of eenks                                                               Privatization at least of one bank and develtpant of the
core elements of a prfvatization strategy for banks under
rehablittation. 
9 actions to he token before Juna 30, 1n
* Indiestor of contiuuung progress



80
page I OfS
SLOVEA
ENTERPRLSE AND FINANCIL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The tecical assistance to support the Goverment's progam  as detailed in the Letter of
Development Policy would include the following components. It could also finnce additio   or
alternative components required to accomplish the Governmentes program, if the need emerges during
implemenaon. The total foreigp cost of these componen  Is esdmated at about US$8.6 million
equivalent, of which about US$5 million would be fianced by the proposed World Bank loan  The
remainig amount, US$3.6 million equivalent, would be financed by the Govement or from other
multilateral and bilateral financial assistance. A detailed breakdown of the costs and financing plan Is
attached.
(a)    Macroeconomic framework: development of Treasury operatons of the Ministry of
Finance (MOP), and study for medium-term pension reform (Total cost US$0.3
mlion);
(b)    Financial sector restuctring, mcluding strengthening banr supervision, bank
restructing and debt workouts (Total cost US$4.4 million);
(c)    Entprise restructring/privatization, through support to the Pdvatzation Agcy and
assistace in elaboratng a stategy for indstril development (Total cost US$3.1
million);
(d)    Strengthening the legal and regulatry famework, including support In frmlating
appropriate leglation for mortgages and collateral regitration, and in moderning
the land registry, as well as advice on specific laws as appropriate (Total cost US$0.7
million);
(e)    Reform of the labor program, including labor restrucuring and the issue of mass
layoffs (Total cost US$0.1 mmilon).
Maeroeconomic Framework
Trmeasry Opeaions. To complement asistance being provided by EC-PHARE, dt  projec
could fiance about 6 staff-months of short-term assisn   to provide advice and guida    on th
development and establishment of prmary and secondary markets for pubLic sector sec"cr , and
reated softwae.
Pension Reorm. The project would finance about 12 staff-months of epert advice to carry
out a study and prepare an action plan for medium-term pension reform.



81
Page 2 of 5
Financial Sector Restrucuring
Bankting Supervision. The proposed project would provide support to the Bank Supervision
Deparment of the Bank of Sloveia (BOS) to implement Its Institutional plan to speed up the
dvopment of off-site and on-sie supervision. This plan, which has been adopted, ams at: (4)
mproving bank reporting by, hter alla, prescribing accunting rules compatible wih Ieratona
, ,   upgrading the present computerized system to provide for more timely and acrate
perormane monitoring of rik exposures, and an early warning system; (iii) development and
Implementation of on-site examinaon methodologies; and Civ) development of an appopriate traing
pwogram. The techn    asstce would finace:
- an expe on bank supervision for 2 years. Among the tasks of the bank supervision aepert,
in addition to the deliveing of sbort seminars on on-site ispection methodologies, would be
the development of a taning program, which could include: at least four formal seminars per
year on such topics as interra conrl, credit and financial risk management, foreign
exchange operations, and classification and loan provisioning assessment.
- about 12 staff-monts of siort-term consultants services to help with, Inter alta, reviewing
the efficiency and productivity of the bankdng system, developing examination manuals, and
rewing and adapting bank accounting and reportng practices. The short-term advisors
would inde experts in bank accounting and auditing and an interdisciplinary expert in
computerized systems for off-site analysis.
- training required to help strengthen BOS's suprvisry capabilities. The program could also
includ seminars covering other areas of interest; and overseas taining of examiners who
woud in tmn provide on-the-job training and informal seminars fot additonal examiners.
Bank Resructuring. The proposed project would provide extensive technical assistance to
the Bank Rehabilion Agency (BRA) to develop and implement bank indtional development
programs. Ihis would Include:
- about 18 staff-months of assistance from a banking expert to look at strategic issues in bank
reform and restrctring, Including the development of privaizaion schemes.
- 24 staff-months of aistance from an international cowling firm to provide advice on a
wide range of banking ortivities, such as credit processing, treasury operations, corporate
finance and financial egineering. Ihe consultats would assist in the assessment of fte
banks' stdtutions and management procses as well as in the Implementation of the most
wget cnge needed.
- a special program of istutional strengthening for Ljubljanska Bankm dd (LBdd) (to be
coordinad with assuisance from EC-PHARE). Support from the World Bank loam would
focus on overall coordination and advice (a banking/managemen expert for 18 months) as
well as on creit risk management (18 moths support).
- consultans would be required to carry out institutional diagnostics of 6-12 other banks under
BRA's contmol. Such diagstics would assess the strategic outlook and market potential for



82
Pag 3 of 5
each bank and propose the changes needed to reinforce management suctures, isk
processes, qualit- control and management nfation systems, and would make
recommendatons regading economies of scope and scale and the desirabflity of mgs
between banks. The diagnosdc study would serve as the basis for discussions betwen the
bank's management and the BRA in order to prioritize the Impl on of 
Improvemens to enhanme tie banks prades and contols for risk m         Finaly, the
consultans would assist in the development of an action program for each bank to Implemot
th recommendations of the diagnocs. lh Bank loan would fiace 1-2 of these
diagnostics, which, together with the formulation of an action progam, are esdmated to cost
between US$50,000-US$75,000 each.
Debt Recovery/Debt Workouts: 3 eets, for one year each, to assist the BRA (or the
work-out unin the banks) In the debt recovery process.
Enterprise ReformAPrivatlzadon.
The privatization process reures areful prepaation, design and execution, reqaiing
etensive assistance from foreign and domestic consultant. Over de next 69 months, Xt
Prvation Agency and the Development Fund, In addidon to the support currenty being provid
by EC-PRARE, requires assistane in the following areas, some of which would be finced through
the proposed Bank loan:
- Inii Public Offrin  (IPOs). The Privazation Agenc and Developmnt Fund, at this
stage, would like to concentrate on the privadaton of a limited number of selected  rge
domesic enterprises through inidal public offeings. The project would finance a team of
experined mercant bankers to desi  and implement this process for the first suchc ases.
Tis team would also assist in the preparation of sample documents to serve as refeence
material for fture privat1zations by thi process.
- Domestc and some foign consulta  to help prepare Internal documen  needed for the
privazonprocess (shareholders agreements, saes, ardcles of association, by-laws,
ESOPs, etc.). The consultants would prepare sample Iral documes which could be
widely disseminated and adjusted to meet the particular needs of iniidua companies, in
accortdan with the provisions of the Company Law.
- Consult   (primarily domestic) to provide expert opinions on specific issues, such as
eml-ronm6ntal audits, legal and financi audits and evuaion reports In the supervision of
individual large trnactons in the privatzaton process.
- Local conulants would be required to superie ownership transforation programs.
Industril Development. The Mnistry of Industry needs assstane to asss Intaives
aready aken In th context of developing a coherent sty for hIdustril development. Such a
strate  would: () ede      "aps In tem  of   maion, train, application of stadards, etc.,
which are Impeding efcdve indusri development; (I) assess the measures which need to be takbe
to failitate Slovenla's assimiladon into the Industrial structure of the EC; fii) asses the necessity for
and a     iatess of any other direct intevention measres by Govanment in the indusi  secr,



83
Page 4 of 5
and (v) thereby Identify and elaborate an appropriate role for the sta In formulating and
ImplementgSlovena Inia' u stial policy. Two types of technical aistae are required:
- approximately 2 staff-months of highly-specialized asitance to help the Govenment to
develop a Medium/long-term Indusi policy: (estmted total cost: US$100,000).
- apprxImately 6 staff-mondis of follow-up work to prvide the deted desig and begin
Implementation of the most critical of the actions required under this policy: (esimated tot
cost: US$200,000).
Legal and RWultory Famework
The project would provide:
- 6 staff-months of consultants to provide taining of trainers who could subsequently train
judges and prsective trustees in the implementation of the new bankruptcy procedures,
- 2 staff-monXt of consultan to review and assess the current situation and to make
recommendations for improving the system for rgiing security interests/collater,
Including considering revision of te Company Register to permi the regstradon of liens.
- 2 staff-monts of consultants to prepare terms of referec   for a program to modeize the
lnd register (ncludg consoaidon of options for Improving the cadastre), including the
assessm   and definition of needs.
- 6 staff-months of consutants for adice/assistae   specific iaws and regulations
Labor Market Adjusment.
The proposed project includes about 6 staff-monts of tehnia  assistance to help improve the
effectivess and efficienc of the Miistry of Labor's labor restructuring program, including mass
layoffs.
Total proposed technical assistace component of World Bank loan: US$5.0 miUon. Esftmated
disburseuart period: 24 months.
The Mistry of Finan  wil be responsible for the maoement and adminisron of the
tcbcal asis        nds and will pass tm on to the various recipient minstries and Inttuin.
The M stry is considering setting up a Project  pin I  Unit which would act   the apex for
tlw prpoud  w_nent Reoery ProjecL This Unit would also be ronsible for the coord_
ad             n of the proposed tehical ass ce, incuding the cont  appval and
proedures, both in accordance with Wodd Bank guidelies.   xmpl ton of Xh
varous componen  will be the responsibility of the vaio  recipients. These mistries and
inittions will oversee the implementation of the specific actities within a framework agreed with
the Mistry of Fiance.



84
Page 5 of S
SLOVENIA: ENTES1E AND FNANCIAL SECrOR ADJUSTMNT LOAN
¶zU4cALm ASSTAN*2 PROGRAM(
DBrAML  UUEAIDOWN OF COSTS FOR KM    COONNINT (S MILLONS)
cowsslf;AWC=W   -LA
Zaua   lo.aiaa    Tota   Gm"J      WMd
Ods        Bank     TOWa
MRORCONOMIc 1RWORK
T=Wy:SoouildeamabDe                        0.01     0.11    0.12     0.01     0.11     0.12
PloaRdws                                  gm       La       Q2Q      Q1       Q
TOTAL                                                            _____            _ _ _ W
BANK SU VJON
Bank oltoe1don MM                         0.04      0.41    0.45     0.04     0.41     0.4
Amounting oW mpagft                       0.02      0.18    0.20     0.20              0.2
cav_aboio "mm aam  obftas adv             0.09              0.09     0.09              0.0
O*t by am  (e.., pwamep of amdn
wetohw                                    QI       QlIl    gm5       sa       Qa       gm
Subtow (comliata tWIc)                    0.17     0.77    093       0.44     00o   0o3
TwIalq
S    . (local an Md   a.)                 0.01      0.05    0.06     0.01     0.05     0.06
Oven.baeg o         fA k ma     (lian)    La        W2    Li       I  *       0Q         *ll
Subloud (raT                              0.02     0.3s    0.17      0.02     0.15     0.17
TOTAL (Dak Soptrwo                               -JA                  "L
BANK RERABUJTATION
CoinaltooW Smrka
St.ate                                    0.03      0.29    032      0.03     0.29     0
Bkn gousulgta Mr4 (=qofa Ipzucadl&
wssur cias, eto.)                         0.04     0.43    0.48      0.04     0.43     0.48
Bankpriatkaton                            0.02     0.18    020       0.02     0.18     0.20
Dhebt            3  asm cosiabe
dWendbmofiobdoe)                           .06     0.58    0.63      0.0      0.58    03
t SddInldwa  9obb
Cmidiss"                                0.03     029    032       0.03     029      03
Cteadakoumaew(am)                       0.03    o0       030      0.       0.27     030
Fmmia  ddk soonagansoMA0.04                      036    OAO       0.40              OA0
Dkb*u f o6w bnb nerBRA sI                 QX       gml    QQ         gm      ILQI       g9A
Slw                                       OA       2.7S    323       1.14     2.09     3.
Toar Sma                                      Q9   gm  go QX                      gm   Q
TOTAL_  __ ,,, ,                                            W   ARIw
DETERS RISUREON
CoAllb Sank.m
D_i" d exenud f fit RD eoal f
ao maril (_hb    bkm)                     0.10      1.00    1.10     O.tO     1.00     1.10
.OSO    O5    O0S        0.50     0.05     05
Ad*canbgobpvadm                           0.X5     0.40    0.65      O5       0.10     0.6
Pzvahadoa p       wpmbia                  0.50     0.0      0.50     0.50     0.00     00
Jadnatla DeVL Stmtag onumba Ormanal       gm       gig    Lau        aim       Lag0    0
wam"
TOTAL41                                           _1    
LOGAL AND BCBLWTRYFAtaOU
:O&WOM Soolaft, LadO0.11                            0.10    0.21     0.11     0.10     0.21
SuBpy:T        geft of Udom               0.01     0.10    0.11      0.1      0.10     0.1
LABOR  MA R EFORM
LaW ppf tt. mmlob                         QA        La    LQU        0*        La      QL
TOTAL (Labw M       Rabn                 ,*        no ,U             La       0*       Lii
GRAND TOTAL
sab my nt add due to amait.



85
SLOVENPA
Tecal A_            for Cre C_one   of d roaosed Eaurpe ad fwal  Sector M4uft Ls
T GAo i             tolam  IA 0so maGeC
Psmlo.Rshmm                   Saidl aed Pi%"" of odoas pasm  h                  c              d s
* E,anwd es:   2 mUuptof a
* Mud a        s
Deip ad caensof               Dosp snd extadam of tVadasm of fia sooseh         Ph    mdom d 400 _admily ond
pWWszmio&ao Ihnus goe wkh   by kiWds peblie o8mdA  andi "alaodoaoftaosked       cateapis. acowAnsl (ha 20% of
pasMoios of tw Law on         puosaduau and susVpl daoummulato sma as gofeesuc  Us vaIn added amuoof4
Owma*  ThadmvAou      odmwinoM fea BMWs psivaiadone by weat mehdW.       cmd     fat  z,Lwa
8  Lsbaated ass:  $1) midNipmsciimmd
Papandu af kftmd doommanis mo    for dke          See  a aboVe,end NW    es
-p -
*~~~~~~~~ Lanae a;p.zfess:  50doc ruS.g
p_ha&mpecem (0e.g dwowesoe_e                       pwaWosueo
dwAos. by4semh 3SOPs. de.). ptans. aofasove
ow., nededm an U..d  aw.  . mpthiofidvldanml taamras
o  Li a,d o w   $O.7asA1.n
*uperviden of OWOOU*  kensbmdwn PMess           Sam  a above
*  Eshatemd gem:   W  ml Won
o  Eadmad co:  $M mI.
Fow"_     o obipvM d_EPe            X dutpsmi b
lAbOtOg"aoutmw    ~   Awealstntob lnyavbnt U.. endo n N  effosney        Adopihno of994 badgelundi
Of ibeMlnlamY Of LeAoSs labor reMoassing PIaoMsa   sh@paan bad"l dfoUt aIs 1  of
IncludIng U. bmodden of mnss layoff                =sD  and ponds uosptan
.    & asmaw Cow   L- mom
*  Etged e#.   $0.1 l.



llI  Uii                                     ii 1     I Wi'0   il Wi  1
A~~~~I IE 1~ MI I ' g



87
TAND PWANCLAL SCR AD19TNr LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SEE'
a.                Tim take to preOp projet              9 mont
b.                RgWsoslblly fo project preparon          om
c.                Fir Bank misso                        July 1992
d.                Apprsal misdon depaur                 Apr  5, 1993
Ngoaons                                une 7-11, 1993
f.                Planned date of effecivene            Septm    1993
g.                List of  evat PCRs ad PPARs           None
None
See Amez 3



32~~1 fX Aa |X
lI               I  iii 32ii'2                       ill}
coO    N1|§        1           N   0    0S1 
XXi IS ;  j iE                           I ii4g



^6I "
X~~   i jSi   igSi,X i|l( JIJIdI 
# §}X}}§A  Al§ A A



