The World Bank
|FILE COPY
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
2  70             c#6/N  Report No. 5889-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 5, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENUCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Yuan (Y)
US$1.0 = Y 2.8
Y 1.0 = 100 fen = US$0.357
(As of June 1985)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
DWT   =   Dead Weight Ton
km    =   Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh   =   Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
CWh   =   Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh   =   Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW        Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW    =   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV    =   Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA   =   Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA   =   Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
TPD   =   Ton per day
mg    =  Milligram
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOC      -   Bank of China
ECEPA    -   East China Electric Power Administration
ECEPDI   -   East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECPS     -   East China Power System
COC      -   Government of China
IAEA     -   International Atomic Energy Agency
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP    -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC     -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAA      -   State Audit Administration
SEC      -   State Economic Commission
SPC      -   State Planning Commission
WREPERI  -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute
ZPEPB    -   Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR ...................... T .....................    1
A. Overview.                                                                1
B. Resource Endowment               ..                                      2
C. Efficiency of Energy Use.                                                2
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR.                                                          3
A.  Backgroukrndn .. .. ... . ..    ...........                             3
B.  The Market for Electricity...*.........................ei               3
C. Institutions.... 0-t.. ..............  4
D. Tariffs....                                                              4
E. Manpower and Training. . .                                               5
F. Planning...                                                              6
C.  Technology Transferr.......                                             7
R. Subsector Objectives and Policies               . . .                    7
I. Subsector Proble m.s ... 8
J. Role of the Bank....                                                     8
III. THE BENEFICIARY..                                                             9
A.  Legal Status and Organization          ......        ...........        9
B.  Maagm nta......              g      em..................                9
C. Staffing and Training                        . . .    10
D. Planning, Budget and Control                     . . .    11
E. Accounting                             ...   12
F.  Audit ..................................................               13
G. Tariffs                             .....   14
H.  Billing and Collection .          . .................................   15
I.  Data Processing .       .       ........................................   16
J. Insurance                           .......  16
K.  Distribution System.             .........                             ............................   16
IV.  THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM ............................ .   17
A. The East China Power System                      . . .    17
B.  The Zhejiang Power Grid .           .................................   18
C.  Load Forecast .........           ...................................   19
D.  The 1985-92 Power Development Program                 .    .    .      19
This report was written by K.C. Ling, J. Sopher, W. Cao, A. Liebenthal and
I.H. Cheng, who appraised the project in June 1985 with the assistance of
S.Z. Sung of AEPED.
This dwoment ha a restricd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoizain.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  THE PROJECT..      .    ..................---. -.-  -     .    -  -  21
A.  Project Objectives..o..... ............................. .   21
B.  Project Deic r i p t i o n                                        22
C.  Cost Estimate.i...at...................................     24
D.  Financing Plan.  2..............................26
E.  Procurement..oentt ............................ o.........   27
P.  Project Impleenatono..tation...o.    28
H.  Ditorsingtad Reprti.........o. .. .. .        .......  ..... o.   29
C.  Poaitoring and RePenpina      Pe..or tai ne 2..............es.    29
Io  E    c o       l o       g    y Finances .....2......... ........... ....  29
Jo                    ii                                              30
VI.  FI    Ce-eso ..  ..                                                    30
A.  needufon.th    .e..........o................ ...o......d.   30
B.  Financial Sstto 3....................          .......            31
C.  Past and Present Financial Perfomace..* ..               ce..     33
D.  Finsmcial Plao         lan......   ..*0.......    35
E.  Future Finnes.....             a......c....s.    36
VTII   JUSTIFICATIONe ................ ses...... .e.... 39
A.  Need for the Proo                     j      e      ct....        39
B.  Leasst Cost Stuu                    d       i      es..           40
C.  Economic Rate of Return....................... &...... o.o   41
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS....... ................   41
ANNEXES
1.  Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales for the Power
Subsector
2. Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant
3.  Performance Indicators of ZPEPB (1980-84)
4.  Present Training Capacity within ECEPA
5.  Electricity Tariff of ZPEPB and ECEPA
6. Major Generating Facilities of the East China Power System
7.  Installed Capacity, Energy Generation and Sales of Zhejiang Province
8. Energy Consumption by Ca egory of Consumers
9.  Belance of East China Power System Load and Capability
10.  Training Program
11. Work Program for the Tariff Study
12. Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
13. Project Cost Estimate
14.  Disbursement Schedule
15. Chinese National Environmental Protection Standards
16. Income Statements (1980-84) - ZPEPB
17.  Balance Sheets (1980-84) -  ZPEPB
18.  Fund Flow Statements (1980-84) -  ZPEPB
19. Forecasts - Income Statements (1985-92) - ZPEPB



- iii -
AUNEXES (Cont'd)
20.  Forecasts - Balance Sheets (1985-92) - ZPEPB
21. Forecasts - Funds Flow Statements (1985-92) - ZPEPB
22.  Assumptions Used for FinanciaL Forecasts
23.  Forecast - Supporting Calculations
24.  Economic Rate of Return
25.  Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHARTS
1.  Organization of MWREP
2.  Organization of ZPEPB
3. Development Program of East China Power System
4. Organization of the Construction Unit
5.  Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
Beilungang Thermal Power Project (IBRD 19176)



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB)
Amount:                    US$225.0 million
Terms:                     20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:           The pruceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Government to ZPEPB under a subsidiary loan
agreement with a 20 year term, including five years
grace and at an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. The
foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and RHB)
and commitment charges would be borne by ZPEPB.
iroject Description:       The project seeks to support industrial growth in
East China by establishing a base-load thermal power
plant along the coast of Zhejiang province using
coal from Shanxi. The project would provide for
construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant
including coal unloading facilities at Beilungang
with two generating units of 600 MW each, two
single-circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and
associated substations, a training program, and a
tariff study. The station would be a state-of-the-
art plant that would set standards for similar
facilities to be built in China in the future. The
project would introduce modern techniques in dynamic
least cost development programaing and initiate
dialog on the modernization of utility management
and financial DlAnning, which are important sector
issues. Cofinancing through commercial banks or
export credits is being considered for the financing
of the second unit of major equipment items. The
project faces no special risks.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-(USS million)-
Site development                            21.9        -         21.9
BuiLdings and civil works                   87.5      34.0       121.5
BoiLer pLant facilities                     25.5      98.0       123.5
Turbine generator facilities                17.9     118.0       135.9
Balance of plant and equipment              39.4      70.9       110.3
Transmission lines and substations          78.9      38.2       117.1
Construction and office equipment           11.1       5.0        16.1
Engineering and consulting services          2.5       4.0         6.5
Supervision and administration              15.7        -         15.7
Training                                     1.6       3.3         4.9
Tariff study                                 0.5       0.2         0.7
Base Cost:                                 302.5     371.6       674.1
Physical contingencies                      33.7      18.4        52.1
Price contingencies                         96.5     104.3       200.8
Total Project Cost:                        432.7     494.3       927.0
Interest during construction                36.1      81.8       117.9
Total Financing Required:                  468.8     576.1    1,044.9
Note: the project is ezempted from import duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
- (Us$ million)=-
IBBD loan                                     -      225.0       225.0
Commercial bank loans and/or
export credits                              -      156.0       156.0
Local bank loans                           468.8     195.1       663.9
Total                                      468.8     576.1    1,044.9



- iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY            1986   1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
(S million                )-
Annual                    -    30.0    40.0   80.0   40.0    25.0   10.0
Cmulative                 -    30.0    70.0  150.0  190.0   215.0  225.0
Economic Rate of Return:  8.5Z
Map: IBRD No. 19176



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Overview
1.01      China is the world's fourth largest producer and third-largest
consumer of commercial energy. Coal is by far the most important source of
energy in China, accounting for some 70Z of its commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil production has increased rapidly over the last three decades to
become an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings,
representing about 18% and 20% of the respective totals. Some 20 of oil pro-
duction and 1% of coal production are currently exported. Natural gas (2Z),
hydroelectric power (5%) and limited quantities of shale oil and geothermal
power make up the balance of commercial energy.  Non-commercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about 40% of commercial production.
1.02      China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been remarkable. The annual production of coal has increased
from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 760 miLlion tons in 1984. During the
same period, annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons to 114 mil-
lion tons, and annual electricity generation increased from Iabout 7.3 TWh to
377 TWh. Nevertheless, the recent economic report on China" has concLuded
that the slow growth of energy supplies couLd constitute a constraint to the
Covernment's efforts to quadruple the Gross Value of Industrial and Agricul-
tural Output (GVIAO) from 1980 to 2000. To ensure sufficient energv for
economic development, China will need to increase coal production beyond cur-
rent targets for the year 2000 and meet at Least the official output targets
set for other types of energy resources. Meeting these targets will require
the modernization of technology and management throughout the sector, the
increased commitment of financial resources, and strengthening of planning and
coordination among the diverse components of the energy sector-and also the
transportation sector. In addition, serious subsectoral constraints Which
exist in various aspects of technology, logistics, management and incentives
need to be overcome.
1.03      In view of the complexity and difficulty of the problems anticipated
in the attempt to balance supply and demand, it is crucial for China to formu-
late and implement a comprehensive and coherent long-term stracegy directed at
both efficient energy development and utilization. The Government, in its
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), accorded high priority to the development of
energv and transport sectors. and these objectives will be further emphasized
1/ China: Long Term Issues and Options, World Bank Report No. 5206-C8A, May
1985.



in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). 7he Bank has supported the Govern-
ment's objectives and formulation of a coherent sector'. strategy through
economic and sector work as well as lending operationa.
B. Resource Endowment
1.04      China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are concentrated in the north and northeast, which have about 70Z of
the total recoverable reserves (640 billion tons).  Future plans call for
increasing coal production significantly, but difficuLty in transport (essen-
tially a shortage of railroad capacity) appears to be a serious obstacle to
achieving this objective. Biomass fuels are the second most important source
of energy in China, accounting for an estimated 30% of final consumption.
Recoverable reserves of oil onshore have been variously estimated between 6-15
billion tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves range from 3-iO biiiion
tons. Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas have so far been estimated
at about 3 trillion cubic feet (TCF), about 90% of which are located in
Sichuan province. In addition, recoverable reserves of associated gas are
estimated at about 1.8 TCF. Unofficial estimates of oil shale in China place
reserves at 400 billion tons. China's hydropower potential, among toe largest
in the world, is estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of which 87 TWh p.a. have so far
been developed. A major constraint has been that the bulk of the undeveloped
potential is in four major basins in the southwest and the northwest of China,
where large-scale development would require transmission distances of 1,200-
1,500 km to major industrial load centers. The known uranium reserves in
China are sufficient to sustain 15,000 MV of nuclear po-w-er plant for 30 years.
Although potential sources of geothermal energy are abundant in the moun-
tainous southwestern part of the country, their role is likely to remain
limited, due to their distance from major load centers.
C. Efficiency of Energy Use
1.05      China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. Several factors contribute to the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use, which is particularly
evident in the industrial sector: the structure of industrial production, the
scale of industrial units, the raw materials used, the technology employed,
and industrial organization and operating practices. In the late 1970s, it
became evident that this high energy consumption rate could not be sus-
tained. The Government took administrative measures to reduce the rapid
growth of energy consumption including quotas, adoption of energy efficiency
meAsures, retrofitting, marginal adjustments of industrial structure and the
importation of energy efficient technology. These measures have had some
success. Primary commercial energy consumption per unit of industrial and
agricultural output has been dropping steadily since 1979.
1.06      As a result, there has been an impressive improvement in overall
energy efficiency during the past five years. Energy consumption per unit of
GVIAO declined by 7% p.a. during 1979-81, and by 3% p.a. during 1982-83.
Preliminary data indicate a further reduction of almost 7% in 1984. Technical
and operational improvements are estimated to have accounted for about 40X of
these energy savings. The other 60% came from a decline in the relative



importance of heavy industry, the closure of some inefficient small-scale
plants and other structural changes within industrial subsectors.
1.07      ALthough the recent administrative measures have been effective in
promoting energy efficiency, the process of fine tuning the current system to
provide economic signals to consumers and incentives for further improvements
in efficiency will become increasingly complex. There is thus a need
initially to compLement and gradually to replace the current administrative
controls with a more flexible allocation system that would provide more
autonomy to individual entities. The system would increasingly rely on an
energy price structure that reflects the relitive scarcity of each source of
energy. This wouLd influence consumption in the direction of the optimal
least cost mix of energy sources required to meet future demand. Such reform
of the allocation system would be a key component of a strategy to stimulate
the adjustments in the structure of energy consumption which are necessary for
balancing energy supply with demand in the long-term.
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A.  Background
2.01      Po-wer development in China has registered high rates of growth
during the last three decades. Annual per capita generation of electricity
has grown from 8 kWh in 1949 to 363 kWh in 1984. Of the total installed
capacity of 79,920 MW in 1984, 32% was hydro and 68% was thermal. Power is
distributed through 30 grids, of which 13 (representing over 80% of the total
capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Energy sales in 1984 reached 319 TWh, having
grown at an average 13.8% p.a. since 1949. Of these sales, 80% represented
industrial consumption, 9% agricuLtural, 1% transportation and 10% residential
and urban commercial usage. Abour 60% of the population has access to elec-
tricity. Annex 1 s-mmarizes the growth of installed capacity, electricity
generation and sales since 1949, and Annex 2 shows electricity generation by
region and by type of plant.
B. The Market for Electricity
2.02      Electricity consumption increased at an average rate of 10.7% p.a.
between 1965 and 1979, but this rate slowed during 1979-84 when it averaged
only 6.4% p.a. The major reason for the lag has been the inability of the
power subsector to fully meet demand, particularly in China's major industrial
centers. On a countrywide basis, the power shortage was estimated at about
40 TWh p.a. equivalent to over 15% of industrial electricity requirements.
The recent economic report on China estimates that, by the year 2000, gener-
ation of 960-1,290 TWh (equivalent to 109,000-178,000 MW in additional
generating capacity) would be needed to meet the requirements of China's
national income growth targets.
2.03      The share of electricity in total energy consumption, has his-
torically been low compared to that of other countries. The principal
features underlying this low share appear to be: (a) the relatively low level



- 4 -
of electricity use in the residential and commercial sectors; and (b) the
relative inefficiency of fuel consumption in the industrial sector, which
decreases the relative share of electricity in total industrial energy
consumption. As a result of China's rapid development in recent years, the
share of electricity in total energy consumption has been increasing despite
serious supply constraints, rising from about 13X of final commercial energy
use in 1970 to about 15Z in 1975 and 18Z in 1980. This share is expected to
continue to grow, reaching 26-27Z in year 2000 which is a level comparable to
that currently prevailing in other major developing countries. The manufac-
turing sector is projected to continue to account for at least three-quarters
of final electricity consumption, although electricity use per unit of value
added is likely to fall slightly. Electricity use in residential and commer-
cial sectors is expected to grow at 11-13X p.a., reflecting a gradual improve-
ment in the living conditions of the population and the rapid growth of the
services sector. Electricity use in transportation is also projected to grow,
reflecting the increase in the share of electric lJcomotives in total railway
haulage.
C. Institutions
2.04      In the Government reorganization of 1982, the Ministry of Water
Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) was designated to oversee electric power
development and water resource management, including policy making, system
planning and the design, construction and operation of major power and water
resource projects. Under MWREP, there are six regional power administrations
which coordinate operations and load dispatching for the reFional power grids
ana formulate long-term development plans for approval by MWREP and the State
Planning Commission (SPC). Below the regional administrations are 22 provin-
cial and municipal power bureaus operating as parts of the regional grids,
while eight other power bureaus still operate in isolation (see Chart 1,
Organization of MWREP).
D. Tariffs
2;05      Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant since 1953.
Through minor regional adjustments over the years, they have become reasonably
uniform all over the country except in the Northeast where costs have been
lower because electricity was supplied predominantly by hydro-power generation
in the early years.  The average revenue per unit has been increasing due to
the growing share of consumption by light industries, commercial and residen-
tial users which pay higher rates. The national average was about 6.9 fen/kWh
(USC2.3/kWh) in 1984 compared with USe7.8 in Kore&, USe7.1 in Indonesia and
USC6.3 in Thailand.
2.06      In the context of Chinese accounting practices, which in the past
did not include in costs any return on capital (other than depreciation), this
tariff yielded satisfactory financial performance for the power subsector as a
whole. However, this situation is changing because of recent changes in the
financial policies of the Covernment. Since 1982, capital investments in the
power subsector have been financed through domestic and foreign borrowing
rather than through Government budgetary allocations as in the past. In addi-
tion, fuel costs have been rising and are expected to rise further. As a



-.5-
result *of these changes in the costs of electricity supply, and in line with
the Government's policy to reform its economic allocation system, the Govern-
ment is considering a review of the electricity tariffs. To as6ist the
Government with this review, the project will include .a tariff study that is
designed to (a) transfer a practical, state-of-the-art tariff analysis method-
ology to China; (b) serve as a reference for future power tariff adjustments
in the East China region; and (c) serve as a model for tariff reform in other
regions of China.
E. Manpower and Training
2.07      mWREP has about 2.5 million employees of whom about 51% are directly
under the Ministry and about 49% are under the provincial administrations. Of
the total, lesb than 30% have received formal education beyond junior secon-
dary school level. In general, the quality of staff intake has been low;
there is a severe shortage of trained manpower, particularly for administra-
tive and technical positions.
2.08      In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to
upgrade the quality of its staff at all levels. Although MWREP has organized
the program, much of the implementation is carried out by the provincial power
bureaus. The Ministry's immediate goal is to establish a comprehensive pro-
gram which will systematically provide training to existing staff. MWREP is
also strengthening its capacity for full-time training of potential employees
through its Education Department which sponsors 4 universities, 39 technical
colleges, television and correspondence universities and 27 secondary-level
vocational schools. The total number of students was 17,700 in 1984. About
15,300 graduates are assigned to MWREP annually - 7,000 at four-year college
level and 8,300 at junior college level. These programs, supplemented by
periodic in-service short courses for managerial and technical staff and by
on-the-job training for workers, are expected to lead gradually to improve
productivity in the sector. The quality of staff will eventually improve, but
the rate of change is still low. In support of these activities and the
project entity's objectives for human resource requirements, the proposed
project would include a training component (paras. 5.07, 5.08).
F. Planning
2.09      Power system planning at the regional and provincial levels is
carried out by the regional electric power administrations and the provincial
electric power bureaus. Overall olanning is the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Department of HWREP which reviews the plans proposed by the regional
administrations and provincial bureaus on short-term (annual), medium-term
(5-years) and long-term (10-15 years) bases. For major hydro projects, the
investigation, planning and design are carried out by the regional hydro-
electric investigation and design institutes. For system expansion, trans-
mission lines and substations above ll0kV and major thermal projects, the
studies, planning and design are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes. MWREP, like other line ministries, operates under the
overall supervision of SPC and the State Economic Comisuion (SEC), in which
are vested the ultimate authority for project approval, budget allocation,
financing arrangements and supervision.



- 6 -
2.10      Under current plans, coal-based thermal power generation will
continue to provide at least three quarters of total generation till the end
of the century. There are important issues in this area concerning plant
location and transmission network planning. For example, the locational
decisions will have to carefully balance the advantages of plant location at
the coal mine sites - requiring long-distance transmission to major load
centers - versus development near load centers and port areas to which large
quantities of coal would be transported by rail and/or water. Thus planning
decisions have to take into account factors such as the regional distribution
of coal resources, regional differences in coal development costs, relative
costs of coal transportation and power transmission, environmental implica-
tions, and external conditions such as the availability of water for cooling
purposes.
2.11      As the planning of China's power subsector development becomes
increasingly complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be
adopted, particuLarly to evaluate the feasibility and optimal timing of large-
scale projects with lcng lead times and to make decisions about the generating
plant mix, power plant location, and grid architecture. To assist MWREP in
acquiring these techniques, arrangements were made under the second power pro-
ject (Loan No. 2493) for introducing least cost investment programming tech-
niques through the assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). The Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute
(WREPERI) in Beijing has assisted the East China Electric Power Administration
(ECEPA) to formuLate a least cost development program for the East China power
grid (para. 4.12).
C. Technology Transfer
2.12      The transfer and development of modern technologies will be crucial
if China is to increase energy production and efficiency sufficiently to
achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer is especially
important for thermal power plants, where increasing deployment of high-
pressure, large-scale units and greater development of cogeneration could
reduce net fuel consumption by some 201 by the year 2000, thus greatly allevi-
ating pressures on coal supplies and transportation. The Government is
already implementing this strategy through the gradual introduction of stan-
dardized 300 MW and 600 MW coal-fired units. The Bank would assist the provi-
sion of state-of-the-art technolegy in the construction and operation of
600 MW units under the proposed project.
H. Subsector Objectives and Policies
2.13      The basic objectives of the Government for the power subsector are
to modernize, increase efficiency, and expand it at a rate sufficient to meet
the requirements of industrial development. To achieve these objectives, the
Government is pursuing the following policies:
(a) a phased increase in the financial autonomy of the enterprises;
(b) gradual introduction of a more rational pricing system;



-7-
(c) introduction of modern techniques in project design and system
planning;
(d) acceleration of hydro development;
(e) development of mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal stations supplemented,
where necessary, by stations located near port areas and load
centers;
(f) construction of extra high voltage transmission lines to transmit
power from remote hydro sites and mine-mouth thermal stations and
for interconnection between regions;
(g) progressive replacement of medium and low pressure thermal units by
larger size and higher pressure units to improve fuel efficiency,
and the conversion of oil-fired units to coal-firing;
(h) development of nuclear units in areas where other forms of energy
are scarce; and
5i) improvement of energy efficiency.
I. Subsector Problems
2.14      Shortage of Generating Capacity.  In spite of considerable growth in
generating capacity, supply has lagged behind demand and shortages are reported
in the Northeast, North, South and East China grids. The power shortage
countrywide was estimated at about 40 TWh in energy in 1984. Demand
mnagement has been carried out in these regions by staggering holidays,
changing working hours, and load shedding during shortages according to agreed
priorities.
2.15      Inadequate Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  The develop-
ment of transmission lines and substation facilities has lagged behind that of
generation. No interconnection has yet been made between regions and there
are about eight provincial grids still operating in isolation. MWREP has
estimated that China has a shortage of about 10,000 km of transmission lines
at voltages above 110 kV. Similar shortages exist in substation capacity.
Lower voltage subtransmission and distribution facilities are currently being
financed by the provincial governments or municipalities. The local authori-
ties usuaLly do not allocate sufficient funds for the improvement and exten-
sion of these facilities which results in high system losses and inefficienct
use of energy (para. 3.32).
2.16      Financial Constraints.  Financial constraints have been a major
factor in the shortage of generating capacity and the inadequacy of trans-
mission and distribution facilities. In the past, limited budgetary
allocations have caused considerable slow-down of power projects. Recently,
the funding mechanism has undergone considerable revision (para. 3.10), this,
and the possibility of increasing the level of sectoral self-financing through
tariff increases, should improve the availability of finance. In the future,
tariff increase should lead to increases in the amount of resources available



-8-
for investment in the subsector and in the levels of self-financing by the
power bureaus themseLves.
2.17      Technology Transfer and Training.  Despite some progress, China's
technology in thermal power plant design, least-cost investment programming,
load dispatching and application of computers falls short of levels prevailing
in developed countries. The age profile of the engineering staff is highly
skewed: most are in their 50s and 60s. Only strenuous efforts to train young
graduates now emerging from universities will narrow the gap. This may
involve establishing specialized training institutes as well as providing on-
the-job training within the country and training abroad at utility companies
and other institutions. A greater understanding of the subsector's training
requirements is necessary before an appropriate solution can be developed and
encouraged. The Bank plans to address this issue in the context of a
subsector-oriented training program.
J. Role of the Bank
2.18      The Bank's role has been to use its lending operations to assist the
Government in solving technical problems and rationalizing investment deci-
sions. The Bank is implementing this strategy by introducting to China modern
methods of system planning, project preparation, construction, operation and
utility management.
2.19      The first power project (Lubuge hydroelectric, Loan 2382) will
provide 600 NW of generating capacity and associated transmission system to
the Yunnan power grid.  The project successfully promoted cofinancing arrange-
ments including export credits for the major electrical and mechanical equip-
ment and bilateral grants for engineering services. It also introduced inter-
national competitive bidding for civil works and modern construction techni-
ques for a rockfill dam, power tunnel and underground powerhouse and enhanced
the financial autonomy of the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
(YPEPB). The project included training for staff of the Runming Hydroelectric
Investigation and Design Institute (KHIDI), the Lubuge Construction Management
Bureau (LPCMB) and YPEPB in the areas of design, construction management,
quality control, accounting and cost control through consulting services. The
project also included the upgrading and equipping of an electrical training
school in Kunming.
2.20      The second power project (500 kV transmission line from Xuzhou to
Shanghai, Loan No. 2493) will transmit a large block of power from a mine-
mouth coal-fired thermal power station at Xuzhou (500 KW in operation and 4
units of 200 MW under construction) to the East China power grid. This
project also successfully promoted cofinancing with a bilateral loan for the
Yangtze river crossing works, and provided for the transfer of the latest
technology in 500'kV transmission line and substation design, construction,
operation and maintenance to the East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI) and the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bureau (JPEPB). A training
component included the establishment of a training center and equipping of two
other technical schools in Nanjing and Shanghai for the operation and mainte-
nance of 500 kV transmission lines and substations.



-9-
2.21      Under the proposed project the Bank will finance a fully integrated
state-of-the-art 600 MW coal-fired unit that will be used to set technical and
economic performance standards for a series of same-size units to be installed
in China and a 500 kV transmission system connected to the East China power
grid. Co-financing arrangement would be sought for the second 600 MW unit.
The project would also introduce the concept of a least-cost expansion plan as
a basis for evaluating power projects, and is expected to contribute to the
formulation of a more rational tariff through a cooperative tariff study. A
program to meet the needs for project-related training and long-term human
resources development would also be included.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.01      The beneficiary of the proposed loan would be the Zhejiang
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB).
A. Legal Status and Organization
3.02      ZPEPB is a state-owned enterprise under the direction of the East
China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA). It is a legal entity with con-
tractual and self accounting capacity. It is assigned responsibiLity by the
State for the execution within its jurisdiction of the state program for power
generation, capital investment, power sales and tariffs, employment and
payroll, materials consumption and tax and profit remittances to the State. A
charter of ZPEPB acceptable to the Bank has been issued.
3.03      ZPEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  Three
deputy directors and a chief accountant are functionally responsible to him
respectively for capital construction; production, supply and technical mat-
ters (concurrently also chief engineer); labor, personnel and training; and
finance. Operations are carried out through a number of units engaged in
power generation, distribution, construction, and repair. Each of these units
is headed by a director with line responsibility to the director of ZPEPB. A
chart showing the structure of ZPEPB appears as Chart 2.
B. Management
3.04      Under the current institutional framework, in which management of
the power sector is highly centralized, ZPEPB appears to be well managed.
Recent performance indicators show that ZPEPB has been expanding steadily,
that its fuel efficiency has been improving and that its transmission and
distribution losses are kept at a reasonable level (paras. 3.29-3.31 and Annex
3). In addition, ZPEPB prepares accounting information in a timely fashion
(para. 3.16) and maintains an effective billing and collection system (para.
3.25). However, the institutional framework is moving toward a reduction in
centralized control, with greater financial autonomy and responsibility for
decision-making on the part of the power bureau, and ZPEBP needs to prepare
itself to manage this transition.
3.05      Areas deserving special attention are the upgrading of management
skills (paras. 3.13 and 3.17) and the strengthening of financial planning
(para 3.12). In particular, managers and administrators need to familiarize
themselves with modern concepts of utility management through a carefully



- 10 -
designed training program which shouLd include overseas study tours and
training as well as seminars organized in China (para. 5.09). The implemen-
tation of modern management methods and the strengthening of financial
planning will require the introduction of a management information system
(pars 3.13) that is oriented towards meeting the needs of management, rather
than just the reporting requirements of the Government.
3.06      ZPEPB is capable of formulating its expansion program and
implementing 200 MW thermal units and medium-scale hydroelectric projects.
The second stage extension of Zhenhai thermal power plant (4 x 200 MW) is
being implemented by ZPEPB in a satisfactory manner with good progress and
field management. However, for a large project such as Beilungang, outside
assistance will be required in least-cost programming on a regional basis,
engineering and design, procurement and construction management (para. 5.12).
C. Staffing and Training
3.07      As of the end of 1984, ZPEPB had about 27,800 employees out of
136,600 within ECEPA. Except f2 r the core group of key technical and manager-
ial personnel who are assigned_ by MWREP, virtually all of ZPEPB's employees
are recruited locally. They are hired on a permanent basis with the exception
of some contract labor for construction work. Of the total employed, only
about 6% have received technical training equivalent to or above college
level. The majority of the workers have less than nine years of formal
education. ECEPA and ZPEPB face the same issues, nAmely inadequate training
capacity, low quality teaching staff, out-of-date curricula, lack of
facilities and equipment and shortage of management skills. Annex 4 shows the
training capacity within ECEPA (totalling about 2,660 trainees p.a. at present
and 3,303 including planned expansions) and ZPEPB (totalling 520 trainees p.s.
at present and 660 including planned expansions). This capacity meets only
abut one fourth of the annual requirements of ECEPA and ZPEPB. Additional
facilities should be made available to increased capacity of training, both
pre-service and in-service, and at all three levels: engineers, technicians
and skilled workers. New equipment, particularly a simulator for training
operators for the to-be-built 600 MS plant, is required.
3.08     The Education Division of ZPEPB administers four training insti-
tutes, including one staff college, one electrical institute and two skilled
workers schools. The purpose of these schools is to train junior engineers,
mid-level technicians and skilled workers. With three-year courses, the Staff
College trains employees who have graduated from high school and have at Least
two years of practical experience. The Hangzhou Electric Institute and the
two skilled workers' schools (located at Buzhou and Jingde respectively)
educate junior high and high school graduates for 2-4 years depending on their
curricula and background. In 1984, over 400 graduated from these four
schools; nearly 60X in fields related to power generation, about 30Z in
transmission and distribution and about 10% in capital construction. Special-
ized training in accounting, finance and management sciences is limited.
Although day-to-day operations of the bureau are adequately manned and
2/  Engineers with formal university education are centrally trained and
assigned by MWREP.



- 11 -
on-the-job training is commonplace and generally sufficient, ZPEPB recognizes
the need for training especially in its new undertakings such as the proposed
project where experience and expertise are lacking. A training component
therefore has been included in the proposed project (para. 5.02).
D. Planning, Budget and Control
3.09      The power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans which are integrated with the national
plans and are approved, through MWREP's auspices, by SPC. MI4EP plays a major
role in shaping the bureaus' individual plans. The ministry, in conjunction
with regional administrations, uses past operating results received from all
the bureaus to compile the quantities and prices to be used by the bureaus in
developing their operating plans. The investment plans are developed on a
project by p,roject basis using estimates of quantities and prices of inputs
included in feasibility studies prepared by the regional design institutes;
however, the investment plans do not take account of the movement of prices
after completion of final design. Thus, in the planning process, the bureaus
themselves do not make a direct linkage between their projected costs and
their reaLized costs. The bureaus' plans also include monitoring indicators;
and variance analyses are conducted to compare actual results with plan tar-
gets. Because the bureaus themselves do not link their plan targets directly
to realized performance, the variance analyses have limited usefulness as
measures of the efficiency of their operations or the cost effectiveness of
their investment programs. Still, wirhin the environment of a centrally
planned economy where large grants have been used to finance significant
portions of investment and prices have been maintained at stable levels, this
approach to planning has served reasonably well.
3.10      So far, all funds required for implementation of the Annual
construction plans were provided through grants allocated from the State
budget. Funds to cover operating requirements were similarly provided in the
form of Working Capital Funds. Under China's economic reform program which
began about 1978, major changes have been introduced to encourage the economic
use of the Government's limited resources. Funds for major new investments
are now being provided in the form of loans from the People's Construction
Bank of China. These loans are made only after projects have been extensively
reviewed and cost estimates have been approved. In addition to construction
loans, nov bearing an annual interest rate of about 3.6%, funds are provided
for working capital by way of non-repayable government contributions, which
._.rry annual finance charges of 3Z. The construction loans are scheduled for
repayment over 15 years after completion of the work.
3.11      So far, the prices the power bureaus have been paying for the
constituents of operating and investment costs have been controlled, mostly at
constant le-vels. However, the Government has recently announced that it is
liberalizing the pricing system so that, slowly, prices will move toward
market levels. In coming years, with the power bureaus continuing to expand
their operations rapidly (paras. 6.14-6.16) and costs increasingly becoming
variable (para. 6.08), actual cost data used together with projections of (i)
productivity improvements, (ii) future price movements, and (iii) interest
rates will become more important as the basis for planning and budgeting.
Moreover, the cost of inefficiency will certainly increase as the power
bureaus expand their operations, and management will need to enhance its



- 12 -
ability to evaluate and control more closely the operations of individual cost
centers.
3.12      The Chinese system of planning and budgeting does not include
provision for long-term financial planning. In connection with the Lubuge
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382), the Bank furnished MWREP with a financial
forecasting model to enable the power bureaus to study the impact of both
their expansion plans and variations in prices on their future financial posi-
tions. Assurances have been obtained that, by December 31 of each year
commencing December 31, 1986, ZPEPB will furnish to the Bank a financial plan
containing forecast income statements, sources and uses of funds, and balance
sheets for the next five years rolled forward each year. In addition, an
understanding has been reached that, at the Bank's request, ZPEPB would
furnish to the Bank financial projections for an additional three years
subsequent to the period of the above-mentioned financial plan,.
3.13      MWREP needs to modernize the financial and management procedures
being followed by the power bureaus. Such a modernization would entail, inter
alia, development of a management information system which would report
financial and statistical information about the operations and new investment
activities of the power bureaus on a more comprehensive and systematic
basis. The resultant data base would provide a more comprehensive and
systematic set of tooLs which, when coordinated with planning and budgeting
processes, will permit closer monitoring and control of the performance of the
power bureaus, both by internal management and by MWREP. Such a data base
would also enable the power bureaus to make direct linkages between planning
forecasts and realized performance and thereby play a more active role in the
planning and budget processes.
3.14      Adapting a management information system to the power subsector is a
relatively new and complex process in China. Many power bureaus are currently
purchasing sophisticated data processing equipment (para. 3.26). The Bank
engaged a consultant to conduct an assessment of the potential uses for that
equipment in selected bureaus. The consultant has furnished an analysis of
the needs of those bureaus for a management information system. From that
diagnosis, the Bank and MWREP are engaging in a policy diaLog aimed at
developing components of future projects which address modernization of the
financial management practices of the power bureaus. ZPEPB has participated
in the initial assessment of its data processing requirements and wilL
participate in succeeding steps.
E. Accounting
3.15      Each of ZPEPB's operating departments maintains financial accounts
which are consolidated with those of all other ZPEPB operating departments.
The construction units, however, maintain independent accounts which are not



- 13 -
consolidated with those of ZPEPB's operating units.31 Accounts are prepared
on an accrual basis using a double entry system. Financial regulations are
established by MOF for all sectors. The HOF regulations cover matters such as
accounting methods and procedures; form of accounts; procedures for distribu-
tion of net income and depreciation; taxation; allocations to and use of pro-
ceeds from Special Funds; etc. MOF reviews these regulations and correspond-
ing accounting standards on an ongoing basis. These are supplemented by
detailed implementation procedures issued by MWREP.
3.16      ZPEPB's operating departments prepare accounting information in a
timely fashion monthly; headquarters compiles consolidated accounts monthly,
quarterly and annually. Although the operating departments furnish consider-
able data to headquarters in connection with their monthly accounts, much of
this data is lost in the consolidation process. The operating units them-
selves, however, do exercise some control over operating costs and conduct
simple variance analyses to establish the reason for variations in costs from
planned levels.
3.17      ZPEPB has an extensive accounting staff who are well trained in
maintaining ledgers and compiling accounts in the prescribed manner. As the
accounts are used essentially to document historical financial information,
ZPEPB neither possesses nor has perceived a need for other financial analy-
tical skills. As and when ZPEPB modernizes its financial management prac-
tices, its staff will have to become capable of using management techniques
involving the analysis of financial and cost accounts for decision-making
purposes. Since the need to develop these skills is not pecuLiar to ZPEPB,
appropriate training can be financed through either a free-standirg future
power subsector training project or training components of future power
projects.
F. Audit
3.18      The financial statements of entities in China have not been subject
to omprehensive audit. Historically, various bodies - including MOF, line
ministries, tax bureaus, provincial financial bureaus, and banks - have
conducted checks to meet their own particular needs. None of these bodies
prepared an independent report on the accuracy and reliability of the annual
financial statements. China has had no professional body of auditors to
prescribe auditing standards and regulations.
3.19      With the ratification of China's new Constitution by the People's
Congress in December 1982, this situation has changed. A State Audit
3/   As these constructions units are under MWREP's jurisdiction and have only
an arms length relationship with ZPEPB, this accounting treatment is
correct. However, since ZPEPB's investments have been financed with
grants tht were disbursed directly to the construction units, traditional
Chinese accounLing substantially understates ZEPBP's construction work in
progress. For presentation to the Bank in co-ection with appraisal of
the proposed project, ZPEP8 included construction work in progress, taken
from the accounts of the construction units, on its balance sheet for the
period 1981-1984 (Annex 17).



- 14 -
Administration (SAA) was established in September 1983. It has the status of
a ministry and reports directly to the State Council. Provincial audit
bureaus are also being established in each province and mnnmicipality (large
cities). HOF has been responsible for establishing the audit bureaus and has
drafted regulations and standards based on international auditing practices in
other countries. These regulations have recently been endorsed by the State
Council.
3.20      Thus far, SAA's Foreign Investment Audit Bureau is conducting the
audits of bank-financed projects. The Bank assisted the establishment of this
Bureau (which focusses particularly on audits of enterprises or undertakings
with foreign participation in the form of equity or loan finance) through an
initial 3-week training seminar (held in late 1984); extensive coments on
SAL's first few draft audit reports; and a follow-up seminar, planned for the
near future, to review field experience with SAA's staff and clients. As
evidenced by its first few audit reports, SAA's work is of a generally good
standard; now, the challenges are to enhAnce the central and provincial staff
capacity for handling an increasing work Load and to develop procedures for
ensuring a consistently high standard of work in the provincial offices.
3.21      The Zheijiang ProvinciaL Audit Bureau (ZPAB) was established in
December 1983. Under the proposed project, ZPEPB's annuaL accounts will be
audited by ZPAB under the overall supervision of SAA. This arrangement is
satisfactory. Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB that it will furnish
annual financial statements, certified by an acceptable auditor, to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year. GOC has agreed that
project accounts for training to be implemented by ECEPA and the tariff study
(paras. 5.09 and 5.11) would be similarly audited and provided to the Bank.
Internal Audit
3.22      ZPEPB has an internal audit staff who conduct examinations, sche-
duled at least once during a year according to regulations, of the accounts of
each operating unit; they also conduct occasional spot checks. ECEPA staff
may also perform occasional spot checks of the accounting records of the mem-
ber bureaus. The object of these exAminations is primarily testing for
accuracy and compliance with K4F regulations. The internal aud unit does not
review the appropriateness of accounting regulations and procedures; such
reviews are considered to be the responsibilities of MOF and MWREP respec-
tively. The Bank will review the internal audit function during project
implementation with a view toward increasing its efficacy and usefulness to
ZPEPB. The first audit of ZPEPB in 1986 is expected to include a review and
comnentary on ZPEPB's internal checks and controls and internal audLt.
C. Tariffs
3.23      ZPEPB's tariff is shown in Annex 5.  The same tariff has been in
effect since 1962. Large industrial consumers pay both a demand charge, based
on maximum demand or capacity of the installed transformer, and an energy
charge based on consumption; all other consumers pay only an energy charge.
Its rate for domestic customers (15 fen or about USC 5.4 per/kWh) is about
twice as great as ZPEPB's average revenue per kWh of 7.4 fen (about
USC 2.6kWh); agricultural and large industrial consumers pay an energy charge
averaging about 5.6 fen/kWh (USC 2.0/kWh), or about 76X of the average. The



- 15 -
average of 7.4 fen/kWh represents about 65Z of long run marginal cost.
Domestic consumers do not pay a connection charge to ZPEPB but must provide
their own meter and internal wiring. Industrial consumers pay connection
charges, which include the cost of substations, distribution lines (if any),
and service drops.
H. Billing and Collection
3.24      As of end of 1984, ZPEPB had about 737,810 customers categorized
according to Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF ZPEPB's CONSUMERS
(As of December 31, 1984)
No. of consumers        Sales
Z      (GWh)      Z
Heavy industriaL         13,071      2     4,953   44.6
Light industrial         21,569      3     2,206   19.9
Agriculture             324,421     44     3,135   28.2
Transportation            19297      -        44    0.4
Municipal               377,452     51        761    6.9
Total                737,810    100    11,099  100.0
Municipal customers consist of households or establishments being served by
ZPEPB's own municipal offices. In some cases, these consist of municipalities
purchasing power in bulk from ZPEPB for distribution and retailing under their
own auspices. More typically, this category incLudes domestic households,
co-mercial enterprises, public service establishments such as schools and
hospitals, and specific municipal users, such as public transportation systems
and street lighting. Although this category contains the largest number of
customers, they consume only about 71 of ZPEPB's power sales.
3.25      ZPEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through 79
district offices. All industrial consumers are charged in advance three times
per month at 10 day intervals based on estimated usage derived from their pro-
duction or sales plans. At the end of the month, meters are read and adjust-
ments to reflect actual usage are included in the first bill for the following
month. Industrial and commercial consumers are all metered individually. Low
voltage customers, are billed once a month based on actual usage. Many house-
holds are metered individually; however, some domestic consumption is metered
at the apartment building level and the charge is distributed among residents
by internal arrangement. Agricultural consumption is generally metered at
ZPEPB's lowest voltage step down transformer serving the particular coAmmune;
the commune arranges appropriate distribution of the charges among individual
farmers.



- 16 -
3.26      Industrial and commercial consumers pay their bills through direct
debit from their bank accounts. Domestic and agricultural consumers render
payments to meter readers who return to metered premises about three days
after presenting the bill. Consumers are responsible for paying at ZPEPB
offices amounts due that were not collected by meter readers. Regulations
stipulate that consumers with unpaid amounts outstanding are disconnected
after ten days; because this regulation is enforced, consumers very rarely
allow themselves to fall into arrears. Any nonagricuLtural consumer is
required to pay a charge for reconnection. These arrangements (para. 3.26)
have established a reliable cash flow from sales and reduced ZPEPB's net
accounts receivable to an unusually low level; at the end of 1984 they were
less than Y 2 million on sales of Y 730 million. Obviously, this is
satisfactory to the Bank.
I. Data Processing
3.27      Recently, ZPEPB has purchased computer facilities which it plans to
use to modernize its design functions. Computers would also contribute sub-
stantially to modernization of ZPEPB's financial management practices. ZPEPB
has agreed that the Bank may assess its data processing needs in the context
of optimizing use of the equipment that ZPEPB has or plans to purchase. Since
completion of that assessment, the Bank is planning to engage in a policy
dialog with MWREP regarding introduction of data processing in the power
bureaus and use of computers for financial and management purposes. The
proposed project includes a provision for office equipment and personal compu-
ters for ZPEPB.
J. Insurance
3.28      Prior to 1980, coverage was not available from the domestic
insurance industry and ZPEPB relied on self-insurance. ZPEPB currently is
sufficiently liquid to self-insure all of its assets adequately against normal
levels of risk. However, as agencies such as the People's Insurance Company
of China are now making various kinds of commercial coverage available, ZPEPB
intends to consider purchasing commercial insurance, particularly for vehicles
and public liability, if satisfactory coverage can be obtained at a reasonable
price.   Z-PB agreed to ensure that its insurance arrangements are
satisfacto r to the Bank.
K. Distribution System
3.29      ZPEPB's primary distribution system operates at the I kV, 10 kV and
35 kV voltage levels. Due to power shortages in China, much attention has
been paid to the development of generation and transmission (110 kV and above)
projects. In the instance where extensions to the distribution network have
been the responsibility of the municipal or local governments, this activity
has often been neglected owing to the lack of funds.
3.30      ZPEPB affirmed that, based on measurements, system losses have been
averaging less than 10. This level would appear reasonable compared with
other countries in the region; however, the modest level of meAsured losses
appears suspect in view of the inattention given to investment in distribu-



- 17 -
tion. In fact, because ZPEPB sells a very significant percentage of its power
in bulk to industrial, agricultural, and municipal consumers, the system has
substantial scope for unmeasured losses. While the consumers are currently
bearing the financial cost, those unmeasured losses still need to be brought
under control if the consumers are to enjoy the full benefits of ZPEPB's
extensive investment in generation and transmission.
3.31      The Bank appreciates that aging distribution systems and unmeasured
system losses might represent problems that are neither fully understood nor
peculiar to ZPEPB. The Bank is engaging in a policy dialog with MWREP aimed
at developing a means for all parties to acquire a firmer grasp on system
losses and distribution requirements. The system losses at different voltage
levels will be analyzed under the tariff study.
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The East China Power System.
4.01      The East China Power System (ECPS) covers the three provinces of
Jiangsu, Anhui and Zhejiang and Shanghai municipality, with a combined popula-
tion of 168 million. The installed capacity of ECPS was about 12,064 MW in
1984, consisting of about 10,188 MW of thermal (84%) and 1,876 KW of hydro
(16%) capacities. The major generating stations are listed in Annex 6. The
system peak load and energy generation in 1984 were 9,400 KW and 68,075 GWh
respectively. Only 5,037 GWh or about 7% was generated from hydro.
4.02      A study of the system balance between capacity and deemnd for 1984
indicates that hydro plants were derated by 718 MW due to shortage of water in
dry seasons and thermal plants were derated by 432 MW due to equipment
troubles, conversion of oil-fired units to coal-fired and effect of weather
conditions, etc. As a result, the total dependable capacity of the system in
1984 was only 10,466 MW to serve a peak demand of 9,400 MW with a gross
reserve margin of about 11.3%.
4.03      At present, the highest transmission voltage level in ECPS is
220 kV. The total length of 220 kV transmission lines was 7,271 km at the end
of 1984 and the total capacity of 220 kV step-down transformers was 10,750 MVA
involving 65 substations. A network of 500 kV transmission lines is being
implemented in stages (see Map 1).
4.04      There are four load dispatching centers in the East China grid:
Shanghai, under the supervision of ECEPA, has overall responsibility for
transfer of power between the three provinces and the municipality, which are
presently interconnected at 220 kV; Hlangzhou (Zhejiang), Hefei (hnhui) and
Nanjing (Jiangsu) centers control the operation of generating stations, trans-
mission and subtransmission systems within their respective provinces. Power
is transferred between provinces on the basis of availability and relative
costs of energy generation.



- 18 -
B. The Zhejiang Power Grid
4.05      Zhejiang province extends about 435 km from north to south and 405
km from west to east and includes 9 municipalities and 67 counties. The total
installed capacity of the province in 1984 was 2,714 MW, of which 1,204 MW or
44% was thermal and 1,501 MW or 56Z hydro. The total energy generation of the
province was 11,128 Clh in 1984 (Annex 7).
4.06      Before 1949, the electricity consumption in Zhejiang was only 59 GWh
with a total installed capacity of less than 33 MW. Growth rates in peak
demand and energy requirement of East China and ZPEPB power grids over the
past 15-years from 1970-1984 are shown in Table 4.1. ZPEPB has a higher
growth rate because of its relatively small base and the rapid growth in
industrial (light and comoune industries) and municipal uses.
Table 4.1: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTH
Peak Demand (MW)         Energy Generation (GWh)
Year                     ECEPA          ZPEPB          ECEPA         ZPEPB
1970                   3,224.6          486.6       20,315.0        2,309.0
1971                   3,519.7          568.5       24,497.0        2,857.0
1972                   3,852.2          575.6       26,800.0        3,154.0
1973                   4,335.7          641.5       30,350.0        3,575.0
1974                   4,268.9          607.2       29,370.0        3,504.0
1975                   4,985.1          711.6       33,400.0        3,612.0
1976                   5,180.0          682.1       36,260.0        3,917.0
1977                   5,658.6          815.7       39,610.0        4,829.0
1978                   6,175.5          908.3       45,699.0        5,670.0
1979                   7,071.3        1,081.8       50,206.0        6,487.0
1980                   7,380.1        1,081.2       53,875.0        7,226.0
1981                   7,770.4        1,224.4       55,947.0        7,734.0
1982                   8,306.1        1,291.6       58,973.0        8,456.0
1983                   8,874.7        1,422.2       63,011.0        9,427.0
1984                   9,400.0        1,560.2       68,075.0       11,088.0
Average rate of
growth (p.a.)           7.92 /a        8.7Z /a        9.0Z          11.92
/a   Demand was suppressed due to shortage of generating capacity.
4.07      Of the 10,539 Cih total energy consumption in Zhejiang province in
1984, 65Z was consumed by industrial users, 28Z by agricultural users, and 7X
by transportation, residential and commercial users. Annex 8 gives details of
energy consumption by categories of users from 1979 to 1984.



- 19 -
C. Load Forecast
4.08      The load forecasts of ECEPA and ZPEPB were made by means of time
regression analysis for different categories of consumers on the basis of the
past growth trends adjusted for new large industrial loads expected to be
connected to the system. The forecast peak demand and energy generation for
the period 1985-1992 are shown in Table 4.2
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST (1985-1992)
Peak Demand (MW)      Eneryj  Generation (0Wh)
Year               ECEPA        ZPEPB       ECEPA           ZPEPB
1985                10,000      1,684      72,000          11,946
1986                10,850      1,878      76,500          13,246
1987                11,750      2,144      82,500          15,046
1988                12,800      2,278      89,000          15,846
1989                14,200      2,596      96,500          17,646
1990                15,480      2,908    105,000           19,746
1991                16,920      3,336    114,000          22,500
1992               18,510       3,755    124,000          25,000
Average rate of
growth (p.a.)        9.2       11.6         8.1            10.7
4.09      The peak demand and energy generation for ECEPA would increase from
9,400 KW and 68,075 GWh in 1984 to 18,510 MW and 124,000 GWh in 1992, which
represent average annual growth rates of 9.2Z and 8.1Z respectively. Those
for ZPEPB would be increased from 1,560 MW and 11,088 GUh to 3,755 MW and
25,000 GWh respectively, growing at annual rates of 11.6% and 10.7%.
4.10      This forecast is reasonable but may be conservative considering
that: (a) East China is one of the most prosperous areas in China with many
important industries and a booming economy accounting for almost a quarter of
China's gross national product; (b) a number of large users such as the
Baoshan steel mill, textile and petrochemical industries, oil refineries and
pumping stations for the South-North Water Diversion Scheme will be put into
operation in the next few years; and (c) technical modernization which is
intensive in the region and which is likely to prefer the use of electric
power than other forms of energy.
D. The 1985-1992 Power Development Program
4.11      East China is short of natural energy resources.  The Shuikou (1400
MW) project, to be built in Fujian province in the near future, is the only
sizable conventional hydro project located within the region capable of
providing peaking capacity to the system. Future development depends



- 20 -
primarily on coal-fired thermal power stations located at mine mouths or near
ports and load centers using coal from Shanzi province.
4.12      WEEPERI with the assistance of IAEA has recently completed a long-
range power development optimization study for the East China power system
(para. 2.11). It shovs that the proposed Beilungang Thermal Power Project
with four units of 600 NW each to be commissioned from 1990 to 1993 forms part
of the system's least cost expansion program. The details of the program
including generation and transmission are given in Table 4.3. The balance of
system loads and capabilities is given in Annex 9 and the power development
program is shown graphically in Chart 3. The program takes into account the
replacement of oil-fired units and the retirement of old and small units.
Until 1987, system load growth would still be constrained due to shortage of
generating capacity. After 1987 dependable capacity would exceed peak demand
and adequate reserves would be built up gradually. As Eor meeting energy
requirements, the supply would still be inadequate until 1991 when Beilungang
comes into operation (a key base-load plant for ECPS).
Table 4.3: ECPS POWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(1985-1992)
A. Generating Stations
Installed                  No.         Unit       Scheduledta
capacity                   of          size      commissioning
Name                    (KW)      Location      units        (NW)          date
Zhenhai Thermal (coal)         800     Zhejiang        4           200    1985,86,89,90
Louhe Thermal (coal)           600     Anhui           2           300           1985,86
Taizhou Thermal (coal)         500      Zhejiang       4           125    1985,86,87,88
Xuzhou Thermal No. 1 (coal)   800       Jiangsu        4           200  1985(2),1986,87
Mingzing Thermal (coal)        250      Shanghai       2           125           1985,86
Jianbi Thermal (coal)          600      Jiangsu        2           300           1986,87
Hefei Thermal (coal)           125      Anhui          1           125              1986
Yangzhou Thermal (coal)        400      Jiangsu        2           200           1987,88
Pingwei Thermal (coal)       1,200     Anhui           2           600           1987,88
Shihdongkou Thermal
(coal)                  1,200     Shanghai        4          300    1987,88,89,90
Sunan Thermal (coaL)           900      Jiangsu        2           300        1990,91,92
Beilungang Thermal (coal)   2,400       Zhejiang       4           600    1990,91,92,93
Xuzhou No. 2 Thermal (coal)   600       Jiangsu        2           300           1991,92
Huaibei No. 2 Thermal
(coal)                    600     Arnhui          2           300          1991,92
Huainan No. 2 Thermal
(coal)                    600                     1           600              1992
Jinshuitan Hydro               300      Zhejiang       6            50        1986,87(2)
1988,89(2)
Shihtang Hydro                  72      Zhejiang       3            26        1988,89(2)
Shanxi Hydro                   240      Zhejiang       4            60              1992
/a   Most of the generating units are scheduled for commissioning by the end of the
year.  When two units of the same plant are scheduled for the same year, the
commissioning dates would be June and December respectively.



- 21 -
B. Transmission Lines
Length                            Scheduled
Name                      (km)        Voltage level        completion
Luohe - Hefei                   110          500 kV                   1985
Hefei - Fanchang                130          500 kV                   1985
Fanchang - Pingyao              207          500 kV                   1987
Xuzhou No.1 - Jiangdu           340          500 kV                   1986
Jiangdu - Shanghai              340          500 kV                   1987
Xuzhou No.2 - Jiangdu           348          500 kV                   1989
(2nd circuit)
Fanchang - Jianbi               210          500 kV                   1988
Pingyao - Nanqiao               180          500 kV                   1987
Beilungang - Pingyao:
1st circuit               245           500 kV                  1990
2nd circuit                245          500 kV                  1991
Total                    2,355 km
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01      A number of key points of the Government's policies for power
subsector development (para. 2.13) are reflected in the conception of the
project; in particular, the provision of additional electric power to support
economic growth; development of coal-fired thermal power stations to make use
of China's abundant coal reserves; and construction of extra high voltage
(EHV) lines to transfer power between optimal generating sites and load cen-
ters and to facilitate eventual regional interconnections. In addition, the
project provides an excellent vehicle for pursuing the following objectives in
the subsector:
(a)  to transfer the 1atest technology in plant design and construction
management of 600 .MV thermal generating units (paras. 5.07 and
5.12);
(b)  to introduce more appropriate techniques of dynamic least-cost
investment programming (para. 4.12);
(c)  to initiate modernization of utility management and financial
planning (paras. 3.13 and 5.09); and
(d)  to transfer the most up-to-date tariff analysis methodologies and
provide a reference for future tariff adjustments (para. 5.11).



- 22 -
B. Project Description
5.02      The project would comprise the following:
(a) construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant, including coal
unloading facilities at Beilungang with two generating units of
600 MW each;
(b) construction of two single circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and
two associated substations to interconnect Beilungang plant with the
East China power grid and ZPEPB's existing transmission system;
(c) consulting services for engineering, detailed design, procurement
and construction management of the thermal power plant;
(d) a training program; and
(e) a tariff study for the East China power grid.
5.03      Beilungang Thermal Power Plant.  A site selection study was started
in 1980. Altogether seven sites were investigated by the East China Electric
Power Design Institute (ECEPDI). The Suanshan site located at the southern-
most tip of Hangzhou Bay in Zhejiang province near the city of Ningpo was
finally selected. A wharf for coal unloading for ships up to 50,000 DWT dis-
placement will be built in the deep channel of Jiantang Strait. The site is
well selected and adequate for an ultimate development of four 600 MW units.
5.04      A feasibility study was carried out by ECEPDI.  The feasibility
report was reviewed and approved by MWERP and the State Planning Commission
(SPC) in October 1984. The State Council approved the project for
implementation in March 1985. The technical soundness and feasibility of the
project is well-established.
5.05      Coal will be supplied from the Datong and Xiaoyu mines in the
northern part of Shanxi province. The production capacity of these two mines
is expected to increase from the current levels of 27.2 and 0.8 million tons
p.a. to 35 and 1.4 million tons p.a. respectively by 1990. The supply of coal
for the first two units of about 4 million tons p.a. has already been included
under the State plan of supply and given highest priority by GOC. Coal prices
will be reviewed and set by the state on an annual basis. Purchase contracts
will be entered annually between ZPEPB and the coal mines according to alloca-
tion plans approved by mUREP and Ministry of Coal.  The coal will be
transported by unit trains using the double track electrified railroad now
under construction (about 637 km in length) from Datong to Qinhuangdao, and
then transshipped to Beilungang. The transportation capacity of this railroad
will reach 100 million tons p.a. and the loading capacity at Qinhuangdao will
be about 70 million tons p.a. by 1990.  The railroad and Qinhuangdao port are
COC's key projects for coal export, and their timely completion is assured.
The tonnage of ships will be 35,000 DWT in the initial stage and 50,000 DWT
ultimately. The coal loading at Qinhuangdao and ocean shipment will be
contracted out by ZPEPB to the Shanghai Shipping Bureau on a long-term
basis. Coal unloading and handling facilities consisting of a wharf, a belt



- 23 -
conveyor system and a storage yard with adequate storage capacity will be
built under the proposed project and operated by ZPEPB.
5.06      Transmission System.  The transmission system will include 2 single-
circuits of 500 kV transmission lines from Beilungang to Pingyao substation
(about 245 kn) to connect with the East China power grid. A new step-down
substation of 500 MVA capacity will be established near Xiaoshan to feed into
ZPEPB's existing grid.
5.07      Trainin8 Component.  To address the five issues explained in para.
3.07, the proposed project would support training in the following three
categories: (i) training directly related to the project; (ii) training to
address long-term manpower needs of ZPEPB; and (iii) training in related
utility management (see Annex 10 for details). Training of the first category
would include:
Ca)  on-the-job training with the Consulting Engineer for the engineering
and design staff;
(b) training provided by the vendors of major equipment for the
electrical and mechanical staff;
(c) training at a selected 600 MW foreign plant for the plant manager,
chief electrical mechanical engineers and shift engineers; and
(d) training of staff in charge of project construction; and
Ce) training of operation and maintenance staff.
5.08      To meet the long-term needs of ZPEPB's manpower development, ZPEPB's
Staff College, the Electrical Institute at Hbangzhou and two skilled workers
schools at Huzhou and Jingde (para. 3.08) will be expanded to provide 50Z more
training capacity through provision of funds for laboratory equipment,
teaching materials and upgrading of teaching-staff. The facilities will also
be utilized for conducting in-service off-the-job training.
5.09      To initiate modernization of utility management and financial
planning, study tours and training will be arranged for the managers and
financial staff of ECEPA and power bureaus to visit a few selected utilities
overseas. Management seminars will be conducted in China, with the assistance
of management speciaLists.
5.10      Categories (i) and (ii) will be implemented by ZPEPB under arrange-
ments made with the Consulting Engineer, vendors of major equipment and
possible bilateral aids. Category (iii) will be implemented by ECEPA.
Assurances have been obtained from ZPEPB and the Government that a training
program acceptable to the Bank will be implemented.
5.11      Tariff Study.  It was agreed that a tariff study for the East China
power system will be undertaken to review the level and structure of the power
tariff on the basis of long-run marginal cost. The study will also take into
account other considerations such as the financial requirements and objectives



- 24 -
of ECEPA and ZPEPB. This study will be carried out by ECEPA, ZPEPB and
WREPERI with the assistance of Bank staff. Assurances have been obtained from
the Government that MWREP will carry opt a tariff study for the East China
power grid with a work program acceptable to the Bank. The agreed program is
given in Annex 11.
5.12      Consulting Services.  The engineering and design of thermal pover
projects in the East China region is normaLly undertaken by ECEPDI for units
of 350 MW or under. ECEPDI's involvement in 600 KW unit started only
recently. In order to ensure the project to be implemented in an efficient
manner for commissioning within the targeted schedule, consulting services
would be required. EBASCO of the USA has been appointed as the Consulting
Engineer, in accordance with Bank Guidelines, to provide the following
services:
Phase I Services
(a) review of conceptual design prepared by ECEPDI
(b) preparation of a detailed cost estimate and construction schedule;
Cc) preparation of bidding documents for major equipment and balance of
plant; and
Cd) assistance in bid evaluation and contracting.
Phase II Services
Ce) assistance in engineering and detailed design;
Cf) review and approval of shop and detailed drawings submitted by the
manufacturers for major equipment;
(g) inspection, coordination and expediting;
Ch) assistance in construction management and installation; and
Ci) assistance in testing, startup and commissioning.
5.13      Terms of reference for these services are detailed in Annex 12.  An
amount of US$1.8 million for Phase I services has been provided as on,_of the
subprojects under the Technical Cooperation Credit (Credit 1412-CHA)._ Phase
II services will be financed under the proposed Bank loan.
C. Cost Estimate
5.14      The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 5.1.  The
cost estimates are at end-1985 price levels based on tendering information
available for 500/600 MW units in the Far East area and unit costs of civil
works for the Zhenhai thermal power station (4 x 200 MW) nearby, the first two
units of which are to be commissioned in 1985 and 1986, respectively. The
Beilungang and Zhenhai sites have nearly the same soil conditions. Physical
contingencies are calculated at 5% for foreign costs, as the equipment
required for a thermal power station is well defined, 15 for civil works, and
4/   TCC is used for project preparation only.  This $1.8 million has not been
in-luded in the project cost estimate sho-wn in Table 5.1.



- 25 -
101 for other Local costs. Price escalations for both foreign and local costs
are calculated on the basis of the projected inflation rates of 7.0Z for 1986
and 1987, 7.5Z for 1988, 7.7Z for 1989, 7.6Z for 1990 and 4.5Z for 1991 and
thereafter. Detailed project cost estimates are provided in-Annex 13.
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST /a
Foreign
cost as Z
Local    Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign    Total    of total
--    (Yuan mln) ---                  (US$ mln)
Site improvement             61.3        -      61.3      21.9     -        21.9          -
Buildings and civil
works                     245.0      95.2    340.2      87.5    34.0    121.5          30
Boiler plant facilities      71.4    274.4    345.0       25.5    98.0    123.5          79
Turbine generator
facilities                 50.1    330.4    380.5       17.9   118.0    135.9         87
Balance of plant
equipment                 110.3    198.5    308.8       39.4    70.9    110.3          64
Transmission lines and
substations               220.9    107.0    327.9       78.9    38.2    117.1         33
Construction and office
equipment                  31.1      14.0     45.1      11.1     5.0      16.1         31
Engineering and consulting
services                    7.0      11.2     18.2       2.5     4.0       6.5        62
Supervision and
administration             44.0        -      44.0      15.7     -        15.7          -
Training                      4.5       9.2      13.7      1.6      3.3      4.9         67
Tariff study                  1.4       0.6      2.0       0.5     0.2       0.7         29
Total Base Cost             847.0  1,040.5  1,887.5    302.5   371.6    674.1            55
Contingencies
Physical                   94.4      51.5    145.9      33.7    18.4      52.1        35
Price                     270.2    292.0    562.2       96.5   104.3    200.8          52
Total Project Cost        1,211.6  1,384.0  2,595.6    432.7   494.3    927.0            53
Interest during con-
struction
Bank loan (lst unit)       -      104.5    104.5        -       .3      37.3       100
Other foreign loans        -      124.5    124.5        -     44.5      44.5        100
Local loans             101.1        -     101.1      36.1      -       36.1
Total Financing Required 1,312.7  1,613.0  2,925.7    468.8   576.1  1,044.9             55
/a   Base cost and physical contingency (at end-1985 prices) have been
calculated using an an exchange rate of Y 2.80 = US$1.0
Note:     1.   The project would be exempted from import duties and taxes.
2.   Total physical contingencies are about 7.7Z of base cost; local
price contingencies are about 29% and foreign cost contingencies
are about 26.7% of the base cost plus physical contingencies.



- 26 -
D. Financing Plan
5.15      The tentative financing plan for the project would be as shown
below:
(US$ million equivalent)
Source                   Local        Foreign      Total
IBRD                        -         225.0        225.0
Commercial bank
loans and/or
export credits            -         156.0        156.0
Local bank loans         468.8        195.1        663.9
Total               468.8        576.1      1,044.9
5.16      The proposed Bank loan of $225.0 million would meet about 24Z of
total project cost or about 39Z of the foreign exchange requirements. It
would be used to cover the foreign exchange costs of the following components
of the first unit and comon facilities for both units (except training which
would be 100X of total expenditures):
(a) Construction equipment for civil works and plant installation;
(b) Steel piling and other steel products (net imported items);
(c) Boiler island package;
(d) Turbine-generator island package;
(e) Coal handling package;
(f) Ash disposal system package;
(g) Instrumentation and control package;
(h) Electrical equipment package;
(i) Equipment and materials for the first circuit of 500 kV transmission
lines and substations;
(j) consulting services;
(k) hardware and software of computers for ZPEPB and WREPERI;



- 27 -
(1) training facilities (including a simulator) and overseas training;
and
(m) a tariff study.
5.17      The Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of Chitna at the
standard variable interest rate for a 20 year term including 5 years of grace.
Assurances have been obtained that the Government would onlend the proceeds of
the Bank loan to ZPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term
including 5 years of grace and an interest rate of 8.5Z p.a. ZPEPB wouLd bear
the commitment cha-rges and the foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and
the Borrower's currency). A Project Agreement would be signed between the
Bank and ZPEPB. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Bank and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
5.18      The possibility of using bilateral/export credits or commercial bank
loans in association with the Bank's "B" loan facility for the financing of
the second unit is still being studied. During the procurement of boiler and
turbine-generator packages for the first unit, bidders have been encouraged to
bid for the second unit on a cash basis with optional financing offer. Bids
were opened on March 24, 1986; they are being evaluated by ZPEPB with the
assistance of the Consulting Engineer. GOC should decide shortly the
financing plan for the second unit; if none of the cofinancing possibilities
materializes, local bank loans would be used.
5.19      All local costs of the project and interest during construction on
local and foreign loans will be financed by the People's Construction Bank of
China (PCBC). Assurances have been obtained that GOC would provide necessary
funds to cover any shortfall in project financing.
E. Procurement
5.20      Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would be
eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15Z or the import duty, which-
ever is lower. Equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 per contract up
to an aggregate amount of $5.0 million could be procured on the basis of at
least three bids from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
(Timited International Bidding (LIB)).
5.21      Civil works which would not be financed under the Ean's loan would be
procured through local competitive bidding (LCB). The LCB procedures for
civil works contracts introduced recently in China follow generally the basic
principles outlined in the bidding documents of the Lubuge Hydroelectric
Project on ICB basis. As far as this project is concerned, LCB procedures are
also considered as economic and efficient due to the small volume of work
involved for each coDtract, and as the need to interface between the
manufacturers' loading diagrams, the engineering design work and the bidding
procedures does not allow sufficient time to call bids for civil works on a
large package basis. Steel towers for the transmission lines would be
procured on fabricated basis through ICB. The construction of transmission
lines and substations would be carried out by the Transmission and
Distribution Construction Corporation of ZPEPB on a contract basis.



- 28 -
5.22      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total
ICB         LIB       Others/b   N.A.  cost
Site development                -          -          25.2       -    25.2
Civil works                     -          -         120.8       -   120.8
Equipment and materials     234.0 /a      5.0        508.1       -   747.1
(211.9)      (5.0)                      (216.9)
Engineering and consulting      -          -           8.7       -     8.7
services                                            (4.4)      -    (4.4)
Training                        -          -           6.5       -     6.5
-                     (3.5)      -    (3.5)
Supervision and
administration               -           -            -      18.0   18.0
Tariff study                    -          -           0.7       -     0.7
(0.2)          (0.2)
Total                  234.0         5.0        670.0    18.0  927.0
(211.9)      (5.0)        (8.1)         (225.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
/b   "Others" include procurement of equipment and materials for the second
unit (para. 5.18), goods to be procured within the country, civil works
and plant construction to be executed by various construction companies,
etc.
5.23      All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over US$1.0 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documents, which would cover nearly all of the foreseen
Bank-financed contracts.
F. Project Implementation
5.24      Status of Project Preparation.  All land needed for the project has
been acquired and conceptual design has been completed by ECEPDI. The Con-
sulting Engineer has been appointed (para. 5.12). Engineering and detailed
design are being carried out by ECEPDI with the assistance of the Consulting
Engineer. Procurement is underway for boiler, turbine-generator, coal
handling equipment and ash disposal equipment.
5.25      The construction management and supervision of the therml power
plant and transmission lines and substations will be the responsibility of
ZPEPB.  A construction unit has been set up under ZPEPB to carry out the proj-
ect with the assistance of the Consulting Engineer. The organization of this



- 29 -
const-uction unit is shown in Chart 4. The project manager and other key
staff have a'lready been appointed. Site preparation work has been started
since January 1986 and the main building piling and foundation wilL be started
by early 1987.
5.26      Chart 5 gives the implementation schedule for the various components
of the project. The commissioning dates for Beilungang units 1 and 2 are
scheduled for December 19, and December 1991, respectively.  The project
completion date is June 30, 1992. As the Bank loan would cover the first unit
only, the closing date of the Bank loan wou.d also be scheduled for June 30,
1992 which would allow adequate time for payment of retention monies.
G. Disbursement
5.27      The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the cost of
other items procured locally; and (d) 100% of total expenditures of consulting
services and training. For expenditures relating to training and contracts
for goods and services each valued less than $200,000 equivalent, reimburse-
ments would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures. Documentation
supporting such expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank but should be
retained in ZPEPB project office in Kingpo and made available for review by
Bank's supervision missions. To facilitate disbursements under this project,
a Special Account with an authorized allocation of US $8 million, representing
approximately 4 months' average project expenditures would be established.
Applications for replenishment will be submitted quarterly or when the amounts
withdrawn are equal to 502 of the initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
5.28      Annex 14 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as the Bankwide profile of disbursements for power projects.
H. Monitoring and Reporting
5.29      Satisfactory procedures have been agreed for monitoring the progress
of the project in terms of physical execution and financial reports (paras.
3.12 and 3.21). Quarterly progress reports on the project and a completion
report will be submitted by ZPEPB.
I. Ecology
5.30      The BeiLungang site is located in a scarseLy populated agricultural
area along the sea coast. Only three families are presently living within the
site boundary. The prevailing wind direction is northwest in the winter
months and southeast in the sunner months. The townships of Ningpo and
Zhenhai (50 km and 25 km away from the site, respectively), are located WSW
and west of Beilungang site, respectively, favorable for flue gas diffusion.
Full support for the project has been obtained from the local government as
welL as the resident population.
5.31      Design of the Beilungang steam power station has taken into account
the requirement that the environmental impact on the operation of the station
should not exceed internationally accepted norms. In particular, the
following sters have been taken.



- 30 -
5.32      Air Quality.  Coal to be used for the plant will be of high quality
with an ash content of about 18-28Z and sulfur content of 1-1.2Z. Electrosta-
tic precipitators with a particulate removal efficiency of 98Z or better are
provided to prevent ash and dust particles from polluting the environment. A
stack height of 240 meters has been selected to ensure that the ground level
concentration of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides will not exceed the Limits
laid down by the Chinese National Environmental Protection Standards
(Annex 15). It is estimated that with two units in operation, the maximum
expected SO ground ierl increment to ambient on one-year average basis would
not exceed .03 mg/m.-   No flue gas desulfurization system is therefore
required.
5.33      Water Temperature.  The layout and design of the circulating water
system will ensure that the residual impact upon the ocean and its life forms
is minimal. Dispersal of the thermal plume from the sea outfall has been
modeled and found to be within acceptable limits. There are only limited
fishing activities along the Jiantang Strait.
5.34      Liquid Chemical Effluent.  Plant liquid chemical effluents will be
held in a neutralization basin and treated prior to discharge into the circu-
lating water discharge channel where they will be rapidly diluted before
entering the Jiantang Strait.
5.35      Ash DisposaL.  Ash from the power plant will be disposed on the
tidal land along the coast enclosed by dykes. Three such sites have been
identified sufficient for 20 years of plant operation.
5.36      The transmission facilities will be designed and carried out in
accordance with current technological practices and will cause minimum
disturbance to the environment. No safety hazards are foreseen.
J. Risks
5.37      There are no risks of any significance associated with the pro-
ject. Coal supply and transportation have been assured by GOC. Procurement
will be carried out in nine well-grouped packages. A Consulting Engineer will
assist in engineering and design, expediting and coordinating, construction
management, testing and commissioning (para. 5.12). Equipment installation
will be carried out under the supervision of experienced engineers dispatched
by the respective manufacturers.
5/   Bank Guidelines specify that for unpolluted or low- to moderately-
polluted areas, the maximum allowable SO2 ground level increnent to
ambient on one-year average should be no more than 0.05 mg/m3 (Criteria
II).



- 31 -
VI. FINANCE
A. Introduction
6.01      ZPEPB is a self-accounting entity reporting to MWREP through
ECEPA. It must follow financial regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) for all state enterprises, and procedures developed by KWREP for adapt-
ing those MOF reguLations for use by all power bureaus. Within that frame-
work, ZPEPB enjoys broad autonomy for managing its own affairs. It realizes
revenues which have in the past covered its operating requirements and left it
with comfortable liquidity. Most surpluses, however, have been remitted to
the Government; in turn, the Government has provided all the funds necessary
for investment in approved projects, historically on a grant basis but more
recently as loans. In the following discussion, ZPEPB's financial system as
well as its financiaL performance and future prospects will be examined.
B. Financial System
6.02      Power bureaus such as ZPEPB may accumulate capital from three
separate and distinct sources. These include:
(a) Funds for fixed assets, which are obtained from the State in amounts
permitting implementation of approved projects according to agreed
schedules. Until 1980, these funds were provided almost entirely as
grants; since then, the Government has decided to make these funds
available as loans obtained from the banking system or from official
sources. Funds under this category are used exclusively to finance
works classified as capital expenditures. These funds are released
monthly, in accordance with plan provisions, in amounts needed to
cover actually incurred expenditures. Most Chinese enterprises are
not expected to finance any portion of capital expenditure from
operations; rather, they are expected to remit all surplus income to
the Government through payment of taxes (para. 6.03);
(b) Funds for working capital, which are also received from the State
based on a fixed amount established by regulation and subject to
review at intervals of about 10 years. These funds comprise only a
minor component of the power bureaus' capital; and, because most of
the power bureaus have drawn their entire allocations since the last
review, these funds have not been shown as a source of capital in
any recent power project proposed for Bank financing. Because
current obligations, both to and from the power bureaus, are settled
virtually as accrued, these working capital funds have been used
primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(c) A number of Special Funds, each of which is earmarked for distinct
purposes and funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in
amounts which are established according to regulations. The pover
bureaus' accounts contain four separate categories of special funds,
including special funds for: (i) maintenance; (ii) employee bene-
fits; (iii) renovations; and (iv) consumer connections. The special
funds for maintenance are financed by allocations charged as
operating expenses in determining net operating income prior to
income tax (para. 6.03). The special funds for renovations are



- 32 -
financed by charges against government funds (the balance sheet
account showing the government's equity investment in the power
bureaus) equal to the portion of depreciation provisions not used
for debt repayment (para. 6.04). The special funds for employee
benefits are financed using distributions from net income after
income tax but prior to the adjustment tax. All allocations to the
special funds (other than that which is earmarked to account for
revenues and expenses associated with consumer connections) appear
or are reflected on the income statement as though they are
operating costs or distributions from earnings, regardless of
whether corresponding cash expenditures have been incurred.
Receipts and withdrawals from the speciaL funds associated with
consumer connections are passed through the flow of funds statement
and are specifically excluded from the income statement. The items
financed from the special funds would Largely be classified as
operating costs or working capital under more familiar systems.
However, the items charged to the special funds for renovations
would be classified as capital costs; and, all of the items
charge-able to it wood be shown as capital costs, ard debited to
special fund assets- , in addition to the provision for
depreciation. As all operating revenues must be expensed,
distributed (either to cover cash outflows, debt service or taxes),
or retained for future expenditure chargeable to the special funds,
the excess of special fund allocations over the sum of special fund
expenditures and increases in special fund assets is the power
bureaus' only means of channeling tariff revenues into cash. In
turn, cash generated through the special funds may be intermingled
with other operating cash; however, allocations to particular
special funds create for a power bureau an ultimate obligation to
use the accumulated cash only for certain categories of
expenditures.
6.03      Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to MWREP equal to
operating revenues less the sum of cash expenditures charged directly to
operations, all allocations to special funds, and debt service. Since 1983,
the power bureaus pay to HOF an income tax, assessed at 55% of operating
revenues less the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to
operations, all allocation to special funds that are treated as e.-tenses, and
debt service in excess of the portion of depreciation provisions specifically
allocated for debt repayment (para. 6.04). From the residual after income
tax, the power bureaus must cover the special fund allocations that are
treated as distributions from earnings and the amount of debt repayment and
capitalized interest during construction to be met from net income, and remit
6/   When a renovation is completed, its value is credited to special fund
assets and debited to gross fixed assets.



- 33 -
the remainder to MWREP as an adjustment tax.7/ MWREP has some flexibility to
control the power bureaus' liquidity either by changing their allocations to
the special funds, making grants for allocation to the special funds, or
relieving the power bureaus of a portion of the adjustment tax. The power
bureaus appear to have adequate liquidity and MWREP has not indicated any
inclination to adjust those procedures which affect their liquidity.
6.04      Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power 'jureaus to retain surpluses. However, tariff revenues must meet
debt service requirements; and repayment per se does not represent a charge
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be net from cash that has been generated by depreciation;
however, the remainder of the cash generated by depreciation must be added to
a bureau's operating cash and corresponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds for renovations. As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
must be met from an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an
accumulation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed earnings.
6.05      Given the existing financial system, the power bureaus have limited
financial incentive for increasing the tariff at the present time; once a
power bureau has revenues sufficient to meet the aggregate of costs charged
directly to operations, all special fund allocations and debt service, and any
additional revenues are remitted to the central government through income or
adjustment taxes. Thus, once expenses and required distributions have been
met, a tariff increase, even one of major proportions, would not increase
ZPEPB's financial viability, except to the extent that debt service coverages
would be improved. Thus also, the familiar indicators of financial
performance, such as rate of return and self-financing ratio, have very
limited applicability to financial analysis of a Chinese power bureau.
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.06      ZPEPB's financial statements for the period 1980-1984 are shown in
Annexes 16, 17 and 18 and summarized in Table 6.1 below. The Balance Sheet
has been adjusted to include construction work-ia-progress, which is normally
carried on the books of MWREP's construction units and not consolidated into
ZPEPB's operating accounts.
7/  From an accounting point of view, the adjustment tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



- 34 -
Table 6.1:  ZPEPB's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1980-1984
Year ended December 31             1980       1981      1982       1983      1984
(Millions of Yuan) -_-
Electricity sales (GWh)           6,357      6,876     7,585      8,436     9,831
Average revenue (fen/kWh)           6.9        7.0       7.1        7.2        7.4
Revenues                            435        480       538        605       730
Operating income /a                   80        99       100        114        107
Capital expenditure                  184       104        99        207       166
Net fixed assets in operation       591        638       760        917     1,112
Cash at end of year                  20         32        38         54        88
Operating ratio (t)                   82        79        81         81        85
Rate of return (Z) /b              15.7       16.1      14.3       13.6      10.5
Debt service coverage                103        22        22          7         4
/a   Operating revenues less the aggregate of fuel, power purchases, adminis-
tration, operation and maintenance, and depreciation.
/b   Based on historically valued average net fixed assets in operation.
6.07      During 1980-84, ZPEPB's sales increased by about 55Z while revenues
increased by about 68Z. Although the tariff has not been adjusted during the
period, average revenues per kWh have increased by about 8Z, reflecting a
modest increase in the proportion of higher priced domestic and commercial
consumption. Despite the increase in average revenues, the operating ratio
has remained reasonably conatant at about 822, an indication that ZPEPB's cost
structure is increasing, albeit slowly. During the period, ZPEPB has realized
an average rate of return of about 14X based on historically valued net fixed
assets in operation. While this average is satisfactory, the trend has been
downward. When ZPEPB's rate base increased bs nearly 25% in 1984, its rate of
return dropped by a similar proportion during che same period. To meet cost
increases expected in the future, however, ZPEPB will need to increase its
tariff modestly to remain financially viable. ZPEPB has managed to increase
its liquidity substantially, primarily because increases in cash receipts for
connections, which are not considered as operating revenues and are allocated
entirely to corresponding special funds, have considerably exceeded increases
in the cash cost of providing connections.
Valuation of Assets
6.08      The Chinese financial system has so far not adopted the concept of
revaluation of fixed assets. Because inflation in China during the past 30
years has been low, and because most existing power reLated fixed assets have
negligible foreign content, asset revaluation would have a limited financial
impact on ZPEPB in the short to intermediate term. Because of incipient
changes in the structure of prices, revaluation of assets will become
increasingly relevant for the Chinese power subsector in the longer term;
however, adoption of revaluation would have a nationwide impact in a number of
sectors. Therefore, this matter cannot be addressed in the context of the



- 35 -
proposed project; rather, it will become a component of the continuing policy
dialog between The Bank, MOF, and SAM. A pro forma revaluation conducted
during project appraisal, using liberal assumptions, indicated that for the
period 1985-1992, an average rate of return of about 8.1% on historically
valued assets corresponds to an average of about 4.4% on revalued assets.
Tariffs
6.09      ZPEPB's tariff was established in 1962.  Historically, after
covering operating costs, tariff revenues have provided substantial general
revenues to the State.  Currently the average revenue per kWh sold (7.4 fen or
about USC 2.6) provides ZPEPB with adequate operating revenue (para. 6.06).
However, inflation and othier specific price adjustments are beginning to
become perceptible in ZPEPB's cost structure. In the future, the impact of
price changes is expected to become muca more pronounced as the price ZPEPB
pays for coal, the major constituent of its cost structure, is projected to
increase substantially in real terms. MWREP has indicated that the power
bureaus will have flexibility to increase their tariffs to meet increases in
their cost structures. However, price increase are expected to be gradual.
Exactly how price adjustments are to be implemented has not yet been
determined, and a number of policy parameters have yet to be decided. These
include: (a) whether prices would be maintained for current levels of plan
approved production with higher prices charged only to new customers, and to
present consumers in proportion to their increases in power usage; (b) whether
increases in costs will be reflected in an average price increase applicable
to all sales; and (c) whether certain specified classes of consumers should
bear primary responsibility for meeting increases in the cost structure, with
none or only a minor portion of the increase being borne by the remaining
classes of consumers. As ZPEPB's energy available for sale is expected to
increase by about 155% during the coming eight years, it has ample scope for
satisfactorily increasing its average revenues to reflect increases in its
costs.
D. Financing Plan
6.10      ZPEPB's financing plan for the period of project implementation
1986-1992 is displayed in Table 6.2:



- 36 -
Table 6.2: ZPEPB's FINANCING PLAN 1986-1992
(Years ended December 31)
Yuan million        US$ million/a   x
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation               2,849               1,017         32
(less) incr. in working capital           27                   10         -
(less) incr. in special fund assets        10                  4          -
(less) repayment of loans              1,326                 473         15
(less) remittances to Covernment          65                  23          1
(less) special fund expenditures       1,149                 410         13
(less) operating cash                    216                   77         2
Cash available for investment              56                 20          1
Proposed IBRD loan                       630                 225          7
Other loans for proposed project        2,379                 850        27
All other loans                         5,438               1,942        62
Government grants                         243                  87         3
Total Financing                         8,690              3,103         99
Total Sources of Funds                  8,746              3,123        100
Application of Funds
Proposed project                       2,780                 993         32
Other construction                      5,372              1,918         61
Interest during construction              594                212          7
Total Application of Funds              8,746              3,123        100
/a USS1 = Yuan 2.8.
The Chinese financial system constrains a power bureau from meeting more than
nominal amounts of its investment program from internal cash generation; in
this case, ZPEPB is projecting meeting from operations, investment correspond-
ing only to that portion of interest during construction which, pursuant to
regulations, must be met from net income. The proposed project accounts for
about 32% of ZPEPB's investment program for the period. The proposed Bank
loan, the proceeds of which will be onlent according to acceptable terms and
conditions (para. 5.17), will meet about 7Z of ZPEPB's financing requirements.
6.11      Under other loans for the proposed project, ZPEPB will need to
borrow about Y 754 million equivalent in foreign exchange (para. 5.15)
additional to amounts obtained under the proposed Bank loan. MWREP has
advised that ZPEPB will be authorized to borrow Y 437 million equivalent from
foreign sources. These borrowings may include supplier or commercial credits;
as the funds obtained therefrom will finance the proposed project's second
unit, the source and terms of those borrowings cannot be identified until bids



- 37 -
for that unit are evaluated. The accompanying financial forecasts assume that
these loans will carry an interest rate of 8Z and a maturity of 15 years,
including a grace period of five years on repayment of principal. ZPEPB
intends to borrow the remaining foreign exchange requirements from the Bank of
China (BOC) on terms and conditions to be negotiated at the time of
commitment. Currently, typical terms for foreign exchange loans from BOC
include interest of 7.5Z-9.5% and repayment periods of up to seven years
beginning after completion of construction; however, more favorable terms are
likely to emerge when the loan is actually negotiated between KWREP, MOF and
BOC. The accompanying financial forecasts assume that these loans will carry
an 8Z interest rate and will be repayable in equal installments over seven
years with repayments to begin upon completion of construction. Of the
Y 317 million equivalent of foreign exchange which ZPEPB is assumed to be
borrowing from BOC for projection purposes, about Y 292 million equivalent (or
92X of the total) would be used to finance price contingencies; GOC is
doubtful that price variations of such magnitude would be realized. ZPEPB
will assume the US dollar/yuan risk on all its various foreign exchange loans.
6.12      ZPEPB will borrow most of the local currency portion of its
financing requirements from the People's Construction Bank of China on terms
prevailing at the time of commitment. Currently, these items include interest
at 3.6% and repayment in equal installments over 15 years beginning upon
completion of construction. ZPEPB projects receiving a small portion of its
financing requirements in the form of grants. Those grants have already been
committed by NWHEP and are intended to finance projects which were approved
several years ago. MOF is no longer making grants available to finance new
projects.
E. Future Finances
6.13      Projections of ZPEPB's financial performance for the period 1985-
1992 are displayed in Annexes 19, 20 and 21 and summarized in Table 6.3.
These projections are based on the assumptions presented in Annex 22.
6.14      During the 1985-1992 period, ZPEPB is projected to maintain high
rates of growth. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 155% over
1984 levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 11%.  Net
fixed assets in operation are expected to increase by about 519% over current
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 23%. Yearly
capital expenditure is expected to increase by about 1,150% over the 1984
level, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 37%.
6.15      If ZPEPB is to maintain its financial viability in the face of this
growth, the forecast implies that it will need to increase its average revenue
by 50% over the current level by 1991. This represents a compound annual
growth rate of about 5.3% in nominal terms. Assurances have been obtained
that ZPEPB will take measures, including but not limited to increasing its
tariff, to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to meet the aggregate
of: (i) costs directly charageable to operations including provisions for
depreciation and allocations to the maintenance special funds; (ii) interest
chargeable to operations; (iii) income tax; (iv) debt repayment in excess of
the amount repayable from the provisions for depreciation; (v) required
allocations from net income for the special funds for employee benefits; and
(vi) the portion of capitalized interest during construction required to be



Table 6.3: ZPEPB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1985-92
(Millions of Yuan)
Year ended December 31                       1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Energy sales (GWh)                         10,560   11,620   13,160   13,840   15,380   17,170   21,666   25,066
Average price (fen/kWh)                        7.5       7.5       7.5       7.7       8.2       8.9      11.1      11,3
Operating revenue                              792       872       987    1,063    1,266    1,513    2,403    2,831
Operating income                               134       140       154       144       161       185       495       539
Capital expenditure                            367       381       671       907     1,464    1,342    1,903    2,078
Net fixed assets in operation                1,320    1,608    2,052    2,239    2,699    4,877    6,114    6,890
Long-term debt                                 459       689     1,203    1,975    3,276    4,461    5,982    7,635
Debt service                                    43        59       106       144       161       193       555       637
Cash                                           139       156       179       206       238       269       309       356
Rate of return
On historically valued assets (X)           11.0       9.6       8.4       6.7       6.5       4.9       9.0       8.3
On notionally revalued assets (Z)           7.0        5.4       4.4       3.4       3.0       2.2       5.4       4.8
Self-financing ratio (%)                        26        10         8         3         3         3         4          3
Operating ratio (Z)                             83        84        84        87        87        88        79        81
Debt service coverage                          4.4       3.6       2,4       1.9       1.9       2.0        1.2       1.2
Debt/debt plus equity (X)                       25        32        43        55        66        72        75         78



- 39 -
met from net income. Compliance with this agreement during the project period
would result in ZPEPB realizing (a) average rates of return of 8.1Z on
histog>cally valued net fixed asuets in operation; and (b) a self-financing
ratio- averaging about 8S annually (Annex 23). These are modest levels of
financial performance. As indicated (para. 7.08), however, the projected
tariff levels are lower than the estimated average incremental cost of
electricity. The tariff study to be conducted under the proposed project
(para. 5.10) and the Government's policy to reform its economic allocation
system to place greater reliance on prices rather than physical quotas
(para. 2.06) may ltad to changes in the criteria for setting tariff levels
that would result i-i more satisfactory levels of financial performance.
6.16      The Government's recent policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital ezpenditure is ezpected to have a dramatic impact on ZPEPB
during the projection period. From a capital structure which is virtually
free of debt in 1984, ZPEPB is projected to move to a Debt/Debt plus Equity
Ratio of about 78Z in 1992. Debt service is expected to increase by about
1,450% over 1984 levels. Debt service coverage is projected to drop from
about 4 in 1984 to about 1.2 in 1992, virtually exhausting all acceptable
safety margins built into operating revenues. Incurrence of debt at such a
rate must be managed carefully. Assurances have been obtained from ZPEBP that
it may incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures indicates that internal cash generation would at least exceed the
projected debt service. This assurance taken in conjunction with its
assurance to furnish to the Bank rolLing eight year financial projections
(para. 3.12) are expected to begin directing ZPEPB's attention to the long
term fiancial impact of decisions relating to its investment program.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for the Project
7.01      East China is one of the most important industrial areas in China,
accounting for about 25% of total national production. Shortage of electri-
city has been one of the major constraints to economic development. Power
curtailment by rotation has been in force to almost all industries, which thus
can be operated only four to five days a week, causing considerable underutil-
ization of plant facilities and manpower. The net loss of industrial
production (after deducting inputs) of the curtailed output is estimated at
about Y 1 for each kWh of electricity not served.
7.02      ECEPA's optimized power development study (1986-1995) indicates that
its generation program depends largely on the development of coal-fired plants
located at mine-mouth or near ports or load centers. The proposed Beilungang
thermal power plant with four units of 600 KW each to be commissioned from
1990 to 1993 forms part of the system's least cost expansion program. It
would be a key base-load plant for the East China power grid. The balance of
system generation requirements and system capabilities is shown in Annex 9.
8/   As adjustment taxes remitted by ZPEPB to the Government are in effect
recycled into ZPEPB through government loans, self-financing ratio is
herein defined as the sum of cash available for investment and adjustment
tax as a percentage of average capital expenditure.



- 40 -
The energy and capacity balances of the ECEPA system with and without the
first two units of the Beilungang plant shown in Table 7.1 clearly indicate
the need for the proposed project in the ECEPA system.
Table 7.1: ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCE
-- FY 91 ---                      FY 92-
without       with        without       with
project     project       project     project
Peak demand (MW)                   16,920       16,920       18,510       18,510
Dependable peaking
capacity/a (MW)                  18,257       18,857       19,927       21,127
Gross reserve from dependable
capacity (MW)                     1,337        1,937        1,417        2,617
Reserve requirement /b (MW)         1,354        1,354        1,481        1,481
Surplus or deficit (MW)               -17          583          -64        1,136
Energy requirement (GWh)          114,000      114,000      124,000      124,000
Firm energy /c (CWh)              111,725      115,470      119,555      127,045
Average energy (GWh)              112,674      116,419      120,455      127,945
Reserve of energy (GWh)            -2,275        1,470       -4,445        3,045
(out of firm)
/a   The dependable peaking capacity of a thermal unit is its rated capacity
unless it has to be derated due to special reasons. Dependable peaking
capacity of hydro units is the working capacity during the peaking hours
corresponding to the firm power under a most critical hydro-year
condition.
/b   Reserve requirement on the basis of dependable capacity is calculated at
8% of peak demand corresponding to about two largest thermal units out of
service. The corresponding reserve requirement on the basis of installed
capacity is about 20-25Z of peak demand with a loss-of-load probability
of about 2 days a year.
/c   The firm energy of thermal units is calculated at an annual capacity
factor of 75% (6,570 hours per year). The firm energy of hydro units is
defined as the annual energy output that would be available under a most
critical hydro-year condition.
B. Least Cost Studies
7.03      A study made by ECEPA indicates that the Beilungang thermal power
plant is more economical than the alternative of bulk power transmission from
a mine-mouth thermal power station in Shanxi province. Besides, the shortage
of water supply in Shanxi limits the development of mine-mouth power stations.



- 41 -
7.04      A report on "Economic Analysis of the Beilungang Power Plant Based
on the Optimization of the East China Power System" was prepared by WREPERI in
June 1985 with the technical assistance of IAKA (paras 2.11 and 4.12). The
report confirms that the Beilungang thermal power plant, with four units of
600 MW each, forms part of the least cost investment program.
7.05      Six hundred megawatts was chosen as the optimum unit size based on
the following:
(a) by the time of commissioning of the first unit, the East China power
grid would have an installed capacity of about 20,000 MW. A 600 MW
unit would only constitute about 3% of total installed capacity;
(b) better utilization of the site;
(c) cheaper unit investment cost; and
(d) higher fuel efficiency (2,140 kcalfkWh compared with 2,210 kcal/kWh
for 300 KW units).
7.06      The boi'lers will be of conventional drum type, designed to operate
at a steam pressure of 2,400 psi and a temperature of 1,005' F/1,005 F
reheat. The turbines will be 3,000 rpm tandem compound, 4-flow, single reheat
type.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.07      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the project was cal-
culated using the estimated economic prices of inputs (shadow-priced capital
cost of generating plant, associated transmission and subtransmission; opera-
tion and maintenance cost, fuel cost and distribution cost) and pricing output
at the projected tariffs by 1991 for ZPEPB's system but adjusted to ead-1985
price level as the minimum ep7nomic value of electricity. On this basis, the
IERR of the project is 8.5% -  (see Annex 24 for details).
7.08      This is a very conservative calculation.  Considering that
Beilungang is a base-load plant and forms part of the least cost deveLopment
program for the East China power grid, there appears no alternative preferable
to the proposed project. The IERR as calculated only indicates that tariff
level based on financial requirements is still low. The issue of adequacy of
tariff level will be addressed in the tariff study included under the proposed
project. This study is expected to be completed by mid-1987 (Anner 11). The
result of the study would form the basis for future dialog with GOC on tariff
adjustments.
9/   Although Beilungang is a base-load plant, the plant factors used in the
IERR calculation are 75% for the first 15 years and 652 for the remaining
10 years. This is conservative considering that ECEPA has an annual load
factor of about 75%.



- 42 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKEUDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances have been obtained that:
(a) Government will:
(i)    carry out Category (iii) of the training program and a tariff
study with a work program acceptable to the Bank (paras 5.10
and 5.11) and provide audited accounts for these components
(para. 3.22); and
(ii)    onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to ZPEPB on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.17).
(b) ZPEPB will:
(i)    furnish to the Bank a five-year financial plan containing
financial income statements, sources and uses of funds, and
balance sheets (para. 3.12);
(ii)    submit its annual financial statements, certified by an accept-
able auditor to the Bank within six months of the end of each
finAncial year (para. 3.21);
(iii)    carry out Categories (i) and (ii) of the training program
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.10);
(iii)    take measures, including but not limited to increasing its
tariff, to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to
meet the aggregate of costs directly chargeable to operations,
all required allocations to special funds, debt service, income
tax and any working capital increases, required to be financed
from operations (para. 6.15); and
(iv)    incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
revenues and expenditures indicates that internal cash genera-
tion would at least exceed the projected debt service
(para. 6.16).
8.02      Execution of the subs--diary loan agreement between the Government
and ZPEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by the State Council would be
conditions of loan effectiveness (para 5.17).
8.03      Subject to the agreements being reached on the above matters, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of $225 million to the People's Republic
of China, for a term of 20 years including a 5-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX 
- 43 -
CRINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation and Sales for the Power Subsector
Energy
Installed capacity (NW)      Energy generation (GWh)    sales
Year             Hydro   Thermal    Total       Hydro  Thermal   Total    (GUh)
1949                 163    1,686    1,849        710    3,600    4,310    3,460
1952                 188    1,776    1,964      1,260    6,001    7,261    6,277
1957               1,019    3,616    4,635      4,820   14,515   19,335   16,407
1962              2,379   10,686   13,065       9,042   36,753   45,795      N.A.
1965              3,020   12,056   15,076    10,414   57,190   67,604   56,802
1970              6,235   17,535   23,770    20,450   95,420  115,870        N.A.
1971              7,804   18,478   26,282    25,060  113,300  138,360  101,274
1972              8,700   20,801   29,501    28,820  123,630  152,450  123,600
1973             10,299   23,626   33,925    38,900  127,860  166,760  135,106
1974             11,817   26,291   38,108    41,440  127,410  168,850  135,708
1975             13,428   29,978   43,406    47,630  148,210  195,840  156,969
1976             14,655   32,492   47,147    45,640  157,490  203,130  164,698
1977             15,765   35,686   51,451    47,670  175,740  223,410  181,691
1978             17,277   39,845   57,122    44,630  211,920  256,550  210,239
1979             19,110   43,906   63,016    50,120  231,827  281,947  233,577
1980             20,318   45,551   65,869    58,211  242,416  300,627  257,300
1981             21,933   47,069   69,002    65,546  243,723  309,269  263,410
1982             22,959   49,401   72,360    74,399  253,279  327,678  280,080
1983             24,160   52,280   76,440    86,450  264,990  351,440  301,600
1984             25,547   54,373   79,920    86,780  290,210  376,990  319,010
Average growth                       11.4%                         13.6%    13.8Z
rate (p.a.)



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricity Generation by Region and by Type of Plant GWh)
1970     1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
Total               115,870  195,840  203,130  223 410  256,550  281,947  300,627  309,269  327,678  351,440  376,987
Hydro              20,450   47,630   45,640  47i670   449630   50,120   58,211   659546   74,399   86,450   86,780
Thermal            95,420  148,210  157,490  175,740  211,920  231,827  242,416  243,723  253,279  264,990  290,201
Northeast            28,820   41,160   43,020   43 610   48,520   51,580   53,995   54 210   56 147   59 613   63,176
Hydro               3,350    5,350    3,560    3,850    2,690    4,746    5,072    64            45        5,23    6,647
Thermal            25,470   35,810   39,460   39,760   45,830   46,834   48,923   47,867   51,638   54,190   56,529
North                20,870   341950   35,480   38,640   45,830   50,559   53,556   55,071   57,527   61 061   66 167
Hydro                 680       710      560       800      970    1,376    1,313        873       962    1,282    1,124
Thermal            20,190   34,240   34,920   37,840   44,860   49,183   52,243   54,198   56,565   59,779   65,043
East                 29,710   49,490   54,670   60,860   70,140   77,535   83.816   87,429   92,149   98,849  106,431
Hydro               4,320    7,920    7,150    7,900    6,450    5,996    9,018   11,109   11,337   14,816   12,392
Thermal            25,390   41,570   47,520   52,960   63,690   71,539   74,798   76,320   80,812   84,033   94,039
Central-South        18,360   35,410   35,000   39,930   46,150   52 534   57 592   60 883   65,922   72 443   75 996
Hydro               6,950   17,020   17,170   16,030   15,630   17,178   20,24    23,327   30,256   35,            3
Thermal            11,410   18,390   17,830   23,900   30,520   35,356   37,347   37,556   35,666   36,874   41,342
Northwest             8 340   17 010   18 660   20 790   22,460   23 928   24.989   24 774   26 501   27 366   30 330
Hydro               2,670             10,060   10,440    9,750   10,41    10,560   11,06         12,      12,80    13,330
Thermal             5,670    8,430    8,600   10,350   12,710   13,512   14,429   13,714   13,976   14,559   17,001
Southwest             9,770   17,820   16,300   19.580   23,450   25,811   26,679   262902   29,432   32,108   34,886
Hydro               2,480    8,050    7,140    8,650    9,150   10,408   12,003   12,834   14,810   16,553   18,633
Thermal             7,290    9,770    9,160   10,930   14,juO   15,403   14,676   14,068   14,622   15,555   16,253



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Performance Indicators /a
1980      1981      1982       1983       1984
Installed capacity (MW)         2,204      2,254     2,429      2,562     2,714
Peak demand (NW)                    -          -         -          -     1,920
(1,081)   (1,224)   (1,291)   (1,422)   (1,560)/b
Energy generation (GWh)         7,764      9,131     8,848    10,755    11,128
Capacity factor (Z)              40.2       46.2      41.6       47.9      46.8
Sales (GWh)                     7,106      7,772     8,507     9,497    10,539
Growth in sales (%)              15.9        9.4       9.5       11.6      11.0
System losses
with station use (%)              -       14.8      13.5       14.5      14.8
without station use (Z)           -       10.9       9.8       10.6      10.7
(8.9)     (7.9)     (8.6)      (9.0)/b
Number of cons-ners           647,258   618,004   747,592   716,309   737,810
Number of employees                 -          -    22,365    23,813    27,818
Consumers per employee                         -      33.4       30.1      26.5
Sales per employee (kWh)            -          -         -          -   379,000
Average coal consumption
(kg of standard coal
of 7,000 kCal/kg per kWh )   0.437       0.427     0.427      0.414     0.416
/a Based on the province as a whole.
/b For ZPEPB's grid only.



-46-                         ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4.
-46-
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Present Training Capacity Within ECEPA
(Planned additions are shown in brackets)
Province                            Jiangsu    Zhejiang      Anhwei    Shanghai    Total
For High School Training
No. of workers colleges                 1         1             1           1            4
No. of staff /a                       20 /b      72           97          110          299
No. of teaching staff                  16        41            45          48          150
Capacity (trainees admitted
p.a.) /c                            80         80           120         100          380
For Middle Level Technicians
No. of institutions                     1         14(1)         1+(1)      (1)           3+(3)
No. of staff /a                      414        177           168           -          759
No. of teaching staff                 150        84            68           -          302
Capacity (trainees admitted p.a.)   280         160+(140)    120+(120)  (220)          560(480)/c
For Skilled Workers
No. of institutions                     3         2             2           2(1)         9+0()
No. of staff /a                      416        176          297          232        1,121
No. of teaching staff                201        115           113         126          555
Capacity (trainees admitted p.a.)   520         280          480          440+(160) 1,720+(160)
/a The number of staff includes the number of teaching staff.
/b  The number of staff is small because the college is jointly operated with the Nanjing
Electrical Institute.
/c  The total number of trainees eurclled is much greater than the annual admission
number, but due to high internal efficiency, the number of graduates, i.e., the
output, is almost equal to the admission number. Hence the capacity is defined here
as trainees admitted p.a.
Source: ECEPA, 1985



AIII 4
-47w                                 ftgp 2 of S
DEILUNGANG THEMAL POWER PROJECT
stimation of ECEPA Annual Lnpok -r Requirements
(up to 1990)
Province
Level of Education                  Jiangsu    Zhejiang      Anhwei    Shanghai   Total
Righ Level
From  wversitles (bachelor
degree and above)                275       145           150         210          780
From colleges                      275       145           150         210          780
Subtotal                         550       290           300         420        1,56C
ltddle Ravel
From technical lnstitutes          550       290           300         430        1,570
m;llled Workers
ram sklilled workers schools    1,770        760           970       1,370       4,870
Others                                                                             4,500
Grand Total                                                                    12,500
amuptlons
1. Growth rate of electrical production capacity                      9.2% p.a.
Present capacity,  1984                                           11,800mW
Capacity in 1990                                                  20,0001F1
2.  ProductLvLty increase rate                                        3.2Z
Present nuber of staff                                            136,600
n. of staff, 1990         1136,600   1.02                         191,600
Eetimated Licrease        55,000
3. Attrltion rate                                                     2.5Z p.a.
Number of staff to be recrulted to replace loss
due to attrltion                                                20,000
Total staff to be recrulted between 1984 and 1990                     75,000
Total annual demard in each of the si years                           12,500



ANNEX 4
-48 -                            Page 3 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Assumptions on Breakdown of Manpower by
job and by Level of Education
By Job
Administrative and technical jobs                                 25Z
Production workers                                               65Z
Within which, skilled workers - 60Z                           (39Z)
general workers - 40Z                           (26%)
Other staff                                                       10%
Total                                                       100%
By Level of Education
Present number of staff with high and mid-level education    -        20,500
Present total number of staff                                  -    136,600
Percentage at present                                        -         15Z
With annual intake of 3,120 new recruits with high
and mid-level education for six years, the number
of staff with above qualifications in 1990 will be
36,200 (with attrition @ 2.5% being taken into
account)
Percentage in 1990                                                         19%



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs, 1985
Rate /a
Tariff Category                                          ZPEPB  ECEPA   Unit
Lighting (rnsidential/commercial/small industries)
Up to 1 :s.V                                           15.0   20.0   Fen/kWh
Over 1 kV                                              14.5   19.5   Fen/kWh
Commercial & small industrial (up to 320 kVA) /b
Up to 1 kV                                              8.5    8.5   Fen/lkWh
1-10 kV                                                8.3    8.5   Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                             8.0    8.0   Fen/kWh
Large industrial (above 320 kVA)
Energy charge: /c
1-10 kV                                             5.8    5.8   Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                         5.5    5.8   Fen/kWh
Capacity charge (per month) /d
Based on peak demand                                6.0    6.0   Yuan1kW
Based on installed capacity                         4.0    4.0   Yuan/kVA
Agriculture /e
Up to 1 kV                                              6.0    6.0  Fen/kWh
10 kV                                                  5.8    5.8   Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                            5.5    5.5   Fen/kWh
Irrigation pumping                                     4.2    -.-   Fen/kWh
Bulk supply (to rural villages)
10 kV                                                  6.5    3.5   Fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                            5.5    3.0  Fen/kWh
Bulk purchase (from self-generators)                      4.5    4.5   Fen/kWh
Inter-network transfer                                   4.6    4.6   Fen/kWh
/a   Does not include a local government service charge, which is 10% of the
electricity bill in Hangzhou and 20Z in Shanghai.
/b   This tariff is applied to productive uses. Lighting consumption by
commercial and small industrial customers is billed at the lighting rate.
/c   Certain industries (aluminum, caustic soda, oxygen/acetylene, synthetic
ammonia and phosphate fertilizer) enjoy a 1.0 Fen/kWh discount in the
energy charge.
/d   Choice of two rates based on availability of demand meters.
fe  Applies only to activities related to agricultural production (e.g.,
threshing) not to rural industries or rural residential consumption.



- 50 -
WILUNOAIC ThEIA POlE P30J=
bilos: bGnrt,  Phetlitteusf the at   Chin Power Symcm (Xnd-1984)
!atalled
capacity
(5)                           imit and year of coissionlng
Siamau PraWIce
Wanjis TShexal          385.0      2 x 25 (1960). 50 (1967), 50 (1971), 110 (1974), 125 (1975)
Jiebi Temria          1,025.0      25 (1965), 2 z 50 (1966). 2 a 100 (1970). 100 (1973). 300 (1980), 300
(1913)
Xuzhou Therld           500.0      125 (1977). 125 (1978). 2 i .  (1979)
Other                 1,146.1
Subtotal           3.386.1
zb.jiam province
Xinanjang  ydro         662.5      2 x 72.5 (1960). 72.5 (1961), 72.5 (1964) 75, (1965), 75 (1967), 72.5
(1968), 75 (1975), 75 (1977)
Pucunjiag Wydro         297.2      57.2 (1969). 60 (1972), 60 (1973), 60 (1975). 60 (1977)
wuijiang Nydre          170.0      2 x 42.S (1977), 2 x 42.5 (1980)
Zbenhei Thermal         250.0      125 (1978). 125 (1979)
Ta-shm  Tharnl          250.0      125 (1982), 125 (1983)
Bal Sban Therma          125       125 (1984)
Others                  959.4
Subtotal           2.714.3
Ash.! Proysee
Ruainan Ther            601.0      3 x 6 (1956). 6 (1957). 25 (1959). 2 x 25 (1960), 12 (1960). 2 x 120
(1972), 125 (1975), 125 (1977)
Unab.! Therasl          750.0      2 z 50 (1973), 125 (1977). 125 (1978), 200 (1981), 200 (1992)
Cnnucun lydro           150.0      S0 (1970). 50 (1972), 50 (1975)
Otbhe                   619.9
Subtotal           2.120,9
Shayshal elbuicalty
Wangtln  Thezsl         800.0      4 x 22 (1958). 2 x 6 (1958), 4 x 25 (1959), 300 (1974), 300 (1976)
Zhsbei Theral           464.6      2 x 10 (1930). 3.6 (1935). 12.5 (1937). 6.5 (1952). 22 (1956). 25
(1958), 25 (1959), 50 (1960), 50 (1966), 125 (1974), 125 (1975)
WujSan  The1rma         350.0      2 x 25 (1959), 50 (1961), 100 (1966). 125 (1969) 25 (1975)
Niaing Thermd           598.0      2 x h (1959), 2 x 12 (1959). 25 (1960). 25 (1961), 12 (1968), 2 i 125
(1972). 125 (1979), 125 (1980)
Jlnasbm Thersal         251.5      2 x 25 (1966), 2 * 50 (1975), 2 x 50 (1976), 1.5 (1981)
Basban Steel W1        700.0      350 (1982), 350 (1983)
Others                  679.0
Subtotal           3,843,1
Total              12.064.4



- 51 -
ANNEX 7
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Installed Capacity, Energy Generation and Sales of Zhejiang Province
Year                Installed capacity         Energy generation      Energy Sales
(MW)                     (GWh)                (GWh)
1962                        440.0                   1,632.0                 745.0
1965                        602.0                   2,072.0               1,404.0
1970                        916.0                   3,265.0               2,271.0
1971                        929.0                   3,860.0               2,724.0
1972                      1,036.0                   3,672.0               3,114.0
1973                      1,146.0                   4,931.0              3,519.0
1974                      1,187.0                   4,568.0               3,191.0
1975                      1,281.0                   4,474.0               3,226.0
1976                      1,385.0                   4,034.0               3,596.0
1977                      1,533.0                   4,841.0               4,603.0
1978                      1,828.0                   4,814.0               5,412.0
1979                      2,076.0                   5,432.0               6,129.0
1980                      2,204.0                   7,764.0               7,106.0
1981                      2,254.0                   9,131.0               7,772.0
1982                      2,429.0                   8,848.0              8,507.0
1983                      2,562.0                  10,755.0              9,497.0
1984                      2,714.3                  11,128.0              10,539.0
Average growth                 8.6%                     9.0%                 12.8%
rate (p.a.)



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Energy Consumption by Categories of Consumers (ZkEPB) /a
1980           1981            1982            1983             1984
Consumers                      GWh     %       GWh     X      GWh      %      GWh              GWh       %
Residential and commercial      420    5.5      '08    6.0      572    6.3      645    6.4       761    6.9
Industrial                                                                                                       'I'
Heavy                           -     -         -     -    4,435   49.0    4,715   46.9    4,953   44.6
Light                           -     -         -     -    1,732   19.1    1,999   19.9    2,206   19.9
Subtotal                 5,564   72.3   5,808   69.5   6,167   68.1    6,714   66.8    7,159   64.5
Agricultural                  1,678   21.8   2,006   24.0   2,288   25.2    2,645   26.2    3,135   28.2
Transportation                   29    0.4       34    0.5       34    0.4        43    0.6       44    0.4
Total.                   7,691  100.0   8,356  100.0   9,061  100.0   10,047  100.0   11,099  100.0
/a  Including consumption of self-generation (consumer owned) plants greater than 500 kW in capacity.



Ar %
- 53 -
.fmA
UITLUNCANC TWMIAL POWER PROJET
Palecew of aust China Power Ryst. Load and Capabilitl
Syate- load                                              Capacity            Enerer nutput      Reserve sartEn /-
Year   Peak       EmergY          Naw additton               Installed  Dependable    firm      Average   Cross      not
(mg)     (cub)                 (Mv)                    (NV)        (NW)        (CUb)   (Club)      Cxi)   (Nv)
1935    10.000    72,000   Luobe Thermal (300)               12.064.4    10.470.0    66,032   6h,611    470.0   -330.0
Xuzhou No. I Thermal 400)
Zhenhai Thermal (200)
TaLrhou Thermal (125)
King XinR Tbhrmal 12S)
Others (124)
Retirements /b (733.1)
1986    10,850    76,500   Louhe Thermal (300)               12,605.3    11,120.0    68,967   69,896    270.0   -600.0
Xuzhou No. I Thermal (200)
ZhenhaL Thermal (200)
Taiehou Thermal (IZ5)
Wing Xing Thermal (125)
Refel Thermal (125)
Jinehultan Hydro (50)
Retirement. (281.5)
1987    11,750    32.500   Pingvee  Thermal (600)            13.748.9    12.240.0    75.72B   76.977    490.0   -450.0
Jianbi Theruel (300)
Shibdongkou Thermal (300)
Xuzhou No. I Therma (200)
Yangzhou Thermal (200)
aizthou Thereml (125)
DC Tratinesion (600)
Jinshuitan Rydro (100)
others (125)
Retirements (233)
1988    12.B00    39.000   Shihdongkou Thermal (300)         16.063.8    14,557.0    36,650   87.699  1.757.0    733.0
Y-ngzhou Thermal (200)
Taizbou Thermal (125)
Jinehuitan Hydro (SO)
Shibtanx Rydry (26)
Others (600) IS
Redtirments (336)
1989    14.200    96.500   Pingwei Thermal (600)             17.630.8    15,677.0    93,104   94,253  1,477.0    341.0
Shibdongkou Therma (300)
Zhenhai Thermal (200)
Jitnhuitan Hydro (100)
Shitatng Rydre (52)
Others (a25) /Le
Retirments (459)
19"0    15.JO   105,000   Beilungang Thermal (600)          19,248.8    17,2R7.0   103.120  104,069  1,807.0    569.0
Shihdongkou Tbhrmal (300)
Sunmn Thermal (300)
Zhenhai Thermal (200)
Others (200)
19"1    16,920   114,000    eilungang Thermal (600)          203843.8    18,857.0   115,470  116,419  1,937.0    583.0
sunan Thermal (300)
Xuzhou No. 2 Thermal (300)
Huaibei No. 2 Thermal (300)
Other. (t70)
1992    18,510   124,000   Beiluntang Thermal (600)          23.18R.      21,127.0   127,045  127,945  2,617.0  1,136.0
Sunan Thermal (300)
Xuzhou No. 2 Therml (300)
Ruaihei No. 2 Thermal (300)
Rualnan No. 2 Thermal (600)
Shani Hydro (240)
/a  Cross Re erve - Dependable Capcity - Syste. Peak Load
Wet Reserve - Cross Re-erve - 82 of seytem pek load for scheduled meintenoace and forced outage.
lb Retir meats including replacement of oil-fired unites nd shutdown of old and srall unite.
/c  Including thermal power projecte built by China international Power  ev-elooment Corporation.



54 -                      ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
BEILUNCANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
1.        The training program will be implemented in three parts:  (a) those
directly related to the project; (ii) those related to the longer-term
manpower development; and (iii) those related to utility management for ECEPA
and power bureaus within the region. The first and second parts of the
training program will be carried out by ZPEPB and the third part will be
carried out by ECEPA.
2.        The first part will include:
(a) on-the-job training with the Consulting Engineer for the engineering
and design staff
Phase I  services  30 man-month
Phase II services  60
TotaL          90 man-month
(b)  training to be provided by the vendors of major equipment for staff
on shop inspection, erection, start-up testing, operation and
maintenance estimated as follows (cost for this item is to be
includee in the contracts of equipment):
Turbine-generator package              30 man-months
Boiler package                         30
Coal handling package                  10
Ash disposal package                     5
Instrumentation and
control package                      60
Other electrical equipment             25
Total                             160 man-months
(c) training at a selected 600 MW coal-fired plant overseas for the
plant superintendents, chief electrical and mechanical engineers and
shift engineers (about 30 man-months); and
(d) training of field construction management group (about 30 man-
months)
(e) training of operation and maintenance staff using simulation
training facilities to be procured under the loan.



- 55 -
AMX 10
Page 2 of 2
Training in China       Overseas training
(i)    Operation             360 man-months           60 man-months
(ii)    Maintenance           360 man-months           60 man-months
Total            720 man-months          120 man-months
3.        The second part is to expand and upgrade ZPEPB'a Staff College and
Electrical Institute at Hangzhou and two skilled workers schools at Huzhou and
Jiande. The program is targeted to provide 50Z more training capacity through
provision of funds for the following:
(a) teaching aid facilities and laboratory and testing equpients;
(b)  upgrading of teaching staff through overseas training; and
(c) updating of curricuLa and teaching materials.
4.        The third part is to initiate modernization of utility management
and financial planning. The program will include study tours and training to
visit a few selected utilities overseas. Consultants will be retained, if
necessary, to help in the design of study tours.
(a) managers of ECEPA and power bureaus
(b) financial staff of ECEPA and power bureaus



AMNE 11
-56 -                  Page 1 of 2
CHINA
BEILUIGANG POWER PROJECT
WORK PROGRAM FOR THE TARIFF STUDY
Objectives and Scope of the Study
1.        The objectives of the study are to transfer a practical state of the
art methodology for electric power pricing ana to provide a framework for
decisions regarding power tariff reform in China. Rate making principles
would be illustrated on a case study fo the East China grid for the period
1986-85. It is recognized that electric power tariff reform is likely to
remain a long-term and gradual process and that more detailed studies wilL be
needed before new tariff options are implemented in East China and other
regions.
Method
2.        To achieve the objectives of the study, first priority will be given
to the development of analytical skills in the entities concerned. The
training will familiarize Chinese staff with the various pricing criteria and
rate-making steps with a special emphasis on the differences and
complementarity between financial cost and marginal cost based approaches.
Workshops are planned at three important stages:  study start-up, review of
Interim Report and selection of tariff options for the Final Report. A visit
to an industrialized country and one large developing country with experience
in rate reform will be organized before this selection.
3.        The rate study for East China comprises the following tasks:
(a) analysis of consumption patterns and demand projections;
(b) review of system expansion plan and operating policies;
(c) analysis of marginal economic costs by voltage level;
(d) calculation of marginal cost of service and comparison with existing
revenues for typical customers;
(e) design of several candidate rate structures;
(f) financial cost analysis and revenue projections for these rate
structures;
(g) review of issues in taxation and power utilities regulation;
(h) selection of a target rate structure, and adjustment of average rate
level; and
(i) recommendations for future work and implementation.



-57-                    ANN   1I1
Page 2 of 2
Output
4.        An Interim Report will present the findings of the above tasks up to
and including the design of several alternative rate structures and their
revenue implications. The Final Report will summarize the above findings and
make argumented recomendations as to the seLection of a target rate
structure, the rate level adjustment requi-ed to meet precise financial
targets and a possible framework for its iiiplementation.
Organization, Schedule and Resources
5.        The execution of the Study is the responsibility of the HWREP as the
lead agency which has assigned the ECEPA and the Economic Research Institutes
of the MNREP to carry out the study in coordination with the State Economic
Comission and the Price Bureau. The study is managed through a Steering
Coimittee where the above agencies are represented.  It will be performed by
three working groups dealing respectively with the power market, the supply
system and the subsector finances under the coordination of a Principal
Investigator from the MWREP.
6.        Consultant services will be made available to help in the analysis
and gathering of demand data, or alternatively to train working group members
in doing so. The Bank will provide overall training and guidance to carry out
the study and to secure the above consultant services.
7.        Key dates in the timetable for the study are planned as follows:
Start-up          April 1986
Interim Report    December 1986
Final Report      June 1987



-58 -                            AMNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERKAL POWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
L.   The Project
1.1 The thermal power plant is located at the coastal region of Binhai
District, Ningbo city, Zhejiang Province. It is owned by Zhejiang
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB) and is designed by East China
Electric Power Design Institute (ECEPDI). It is intended to invite a
foreign engineering company for consultancy.
The first phase of the project includes the installation of 2 x 600 KW
coal fired turbo-generating units, the planned capacity being 4 x 600 KW.
The project items include the followiong:
(a) Two coal fired steam turbo-generating units, each having a normal
nameplate rating of 600 MW, complete with all electric and
mechanical accessories and auxiliaries as well as the control
equipment;
(b) coal handling and storage facilities;
(c) ash disposal facilities;
(d) 5a0 kV step-up substation;
(e) cooling water intake and discharge facilities, fresh water supply
and water treatment system; and
(f) all associated buildings and structures such as power house,
administration building, warehouse, machine shop and residential
housing for the operation and maintenance staff, etc.
1.2 The feasibility report and conceptual design of the project have been
prepared by ECEPDI.
1.3 The engineering and detailed design as related with the equipment covered
in 2.1 item (e) will be carried out by the consultants in cooperation
with ECEPDI.
1.4 Construction of civil works will be carried out by local construction
forces and plant installation by force account of ZPEPB.



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
1.5  The target completion dates are December 31, 1990, and December 31, 199L,
for the first and second units, respectively.
2.   Scope of Consulting Services
The services to be rendered by the consulting company will be divided
into two phases:
Phase I for project preparation and phase II for project implementation.
2.1 Phase I service will include, but may not be limited to, the following:
(a) review of conceptual design prepared by ECEPDI;
(b) preparation of a detailed cost estimate broken down into foreign and
local cost components;
(c) preparation of an overall construction schedule showing all major
activities, events and key dates;
ad) preparation of bidding docunFents for the boiler island, turbine-
generator island, electrical equipment as well as all other balance
of plant equipment; and
(f) provision of assistance to the owner of the project in bid
evaluation, including bid evaluation report, selection of main
equipment manufacturers and contract negotiations.
2.2 Phase II services will include, but may not be limited to the following:
(a)  the consultants will assist in project engineering and detail design
including coordination and quality control, design schedule,
implemenation;
(b) review and approve the shop and detailed drawings, technical
documents and calculations submitted by the manufacturers of major
equipment;
(c) inspection, coordination and expediting of equipment and technical
documents, see to it that they are complete and properly delivered;
(d) provision of construction management support to the owner of the
project (including implementation control, cost control and
accounting, materials control, safety and quality control, etc.);
(e) assistance in the testing, start up and commissioning of the power
plant (including the formulation of concrete plans, schedule,
organization, technical measures as well as on-the-spot
supervision).



-60-                             ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
3.   Requirements
3.1 In the preparation of bidding documents for major equipment, the contents
of various islands should be established such that there will be no gap
or overlap between the islands.
3.2 During all stages of project implementation, the consultant should act in
close cooperation with ECEPDI and in the best interest of ZPEPB, the
owner.
3.3 All documents, technical materials and drawings submitted by the
consulting company should meet the requirements of the construction
schedule.
4. Expenses for Consultancy
4.1 Phase I services will be financed under an IDA Technical Cooperation
Credit (Cr. 1412-CHA) while phase II services will be financed under a
proposed IBRD loan for the Beilungang Thermal Power Project.
4.2 The service charges for phase I and phase II should be quoted separately
by the consulting company.
5.   Time Schedule
Phase I services should be completed within the following time frame,
assuming that the services will be started in August 1985:
Scope of Services                             Scheduled Date of Completion
(a)  Review of conceptual                            completed
design prepared by ECEPDI.
(b)  Construction schedule and                       completed
detailed cost estimate
(c) Preparation of bidding documents
Boiler and T/C island                           completed
Other balance of plant
equipment                                       completed
(d)  Assistance in bid evaluation             December 1986
and contracting
Phase II services will be started in May 1986 and completed by mid 1990.



- 61 -                             AGNES 13
CHINA
BEILUNCANG THERMAL POWER PROEJCT
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Foreign cost
1st      2nd      Sub-      Local
Time                          unit      unit     total    cost      Total
A. Beilungang Thermal Plant
Site imprivement                  -         -        -       21.9      21.9
Earthwork and piling            11.2       7.2     18.4       7.0      25.4
Wharf                           12.0        -       12.0     21.5      33.5
Civil works and buildings        3.0       0.6      3.6      37.2      40.8
Steam generator island          50.0      43.0     98.0      25.5     123.5
Turbine generator island        60.0      58.0    118.0      17.9     135.9
Water supply system                -        -        -       21.8      21.8
Ash disposal system              8.0        -       8.0      22.9      30.9
Coal handling system            22.5       6.0     28.5       3.5      32.0
Electrical equipment            10.4       9.4     19.8      10.4      30.2
Instrumentation and control      7.4       7.2     14.6       2.6      17.2
Switchyard equipment             7.0       4.6     11.6       3.5      15.1
Construction and office
equipment                     5.0        -       5.0      11.1      16.1
Engineering and consulting
services                      4.0        -       4.0       2.5       6.5
Training                         3.3        -        3.3      1.6       4.9
Tariff otudy                     0.2        -       0.2       0.5       0.7
Supervision and maintenance       -         -        -       15.7      15.7
Base cost                      204.0    141.0    345.0    227.1       572.1
Physical contingency            10.0       7.0      17.0     26.2      43.2
Price contingency               50.5      46.2     96.7      72.7     169.4
Total Plant Cost            264.5    194.2    458.7    326.0       784.7
B. 500 kV Tranmission Lines
A, Substations
Base cost                       19.0       7.6     26.6      75.4     102.0
Contingency
Physical                      1.0       0.4      1.4       7.5       8.9
Price                         4.5       3.1      7.6      23.8      3L.4
Total transmission cost      24.5      11.1     35.6    106.7      142.3
Total Project Cost          289.0    205.3    494.3    432.7       927.0



-62 -
ANNEX 14
CHINA
BEILUNCANG THERKAL POVER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank
Bank fiscal year               Semester    Cumulative    Project    profile (a
and semester                    -   (US$ million)-                     (Z)- -
1986
First                                                       -          0.8
Second                                                      -          4.6
1987
First                         15.0          15.0           6.0        11.0
Second                        15.0          30.0          12.0        19.8
1988
First                         20.0          50.0          22.0        30.6
Second                        20.0          70.0         32.0         42.5
1989
First                         35.0         105.0          46.0        54.4
Second                        45.0         150.0         65.0         65.5
1990
First                         20.0         170.0          75.0        75.1
Second                        20.0         190.0          85.0        83.1
1991
First                         12.5         202.5          90.0        89.4
Second                        12.5         215.0          95.0        94.1
1992
First                          5.0         220.0          97.5        97.5
Second                         5.0         225.0         100.0       100.0
/a   For 204 electric power projects Bankwide (IBRD and IDA) covering the
period 1971-81 (memo by Hen A. Adler of June 9, 1982).



- 63 -                            ANNEX 15
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Chinese National Environmental Protection Standards
Chinese              Bank                Plant
Pollutant                   Standards /a        Guidelines         Design Levels
Dust
One-year average             -                 0.1 mg/m3             _
Daily average             0.15 mg/m3             -                0.15 mg/m3
Max imum 24-hour                                       3
concentration            0.5 mg/r3           0.5 mg/m              -
S02
One-year average          0.06 mg/m3          0.05 mg/m3             _
Daily average             0.15 mg/m3             -                0.15 mg/m3
Maximum 24-hour                                        3
concentration            0.5 mg/m3           0.5 mg/m              -
NOx
One-year average             -                 0.1 mg/m3
Daily average             0.10 mg/m3             _
Maximum 24-hour
concentration           0.15 mg/m3             -                   _
Noise                         90 db(A)            90 db(A)            90 db(A)
/a Using Class II standards for Beilungang site.



-64-
CHINA                     Annex 16
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
INCOME STATEMENT (1980 -1984)
_____________________________
(In Millions of Yuan)
Year Ended December 31             1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Sales Increase  tX)                13..3    .    10.3   11.2   16.5
Energy Sales (GWh)                 6357   6876   7585   8436   9831
Average Price/kWh (fen)             6.9    7.0    7.1    7.2    7.4
Operating Revenue                   436    480    538    605    730
Operating Costs
_______________
Fuel                               97    105    118   150    203
Purchased power                   131    137    168   161    196
Operation & maintenance            29     29     31    38      47
Administration                      8      9     11    14    21
Sales tax                          65     72     79    B8    108
Depreciation                       26     30     32    40      47
Total Operating Costs           355    381    438   491    623
Operating Income                     80     99    100    114    107
Other Income                         -1      1      0      0     -1
Net Income Before Income Tax         60    99    100    114    105
Income Tax                            0      0      0    53      46
Net Income                       80     ?9    100    62      60
Distribution of Net Income
__________________________
Remitted to government             75    87      88    38      20
Transferred to govt funds           0      6      7     16    28
Employee benefits SF                4      7      6      6     12
Net Income                       80     99    100    62      60
Rate Base                           509    615    699   839   1015
Rate of Return ({.)                15.7   16.1   14.3   13.6   10.5



- ES -
CHINA                     Annex 17
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
BALANCE SHEET (1980 -1984).
(In Millions of Yuan)
As at December 31                 1980   1981   1962   1983   1984
Current Assets
_______ ______
Cash                              20     32     38     54      88
Inventories                       32     36     35     31      51
Receivables                       12     -2      0      11     19
Total Current Assets            64     66     73     96    158
Fixed Assets
____________
Plant in service                 828    902   1055   1249   1512
Less depreciation              237    264    295    332    400
Operating Plant                  591    638    760    917   1112
=______________
Construction work in progress    36      70     49    132    184
Total Fi-:ed Assets            627    708    809   1049   1296
Special Fund Assets                 54     62     83    109    142
Total Assets                   745    836    965   1255   1596
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                  24     13     16     30      66
Due to Government                  2      4      2      5       8
Total Current Liabilities       26     17     18    35       74
Long-term Debt                      25     70    151    245    259
Consumers' Deposit                   0      1      2       1      2
Government Funds                   602    638    658    804   1037
Working Capital Funds               31     28     32     32      36
Special Funds                       61     82    104    138    188
Total Liabilities              745    636    965   1255   1596
Debt as X of Debt & Equity         3.5    8.6   16.1   20.2   17.1
Current Ratio                      2.5    3.9    4.0    2.8    2.1



CHINA                     Annex 19
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
ZHEJIANG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
-----------------------------------------
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT (1980 -1984)
(In Millions of Yuan)
Year Ended December 31             1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Internal Sources of Funds
_________________________
Net income                         s0     99    100      62     60
Depreciation                       26     30     32     40      47
Maintenance SF allocation          10     12    13    16        19
Consumers' deposit                  0       1      1    -1       1
Consumer connection SF              9      8      *8    18      35
Total Internal Funds            124    150    155    135    162
Government Funds                    184    115    53    129    157
Borrowings                           26     51     68    112      47
Total Sources of Funds        334    316    295    375    365
Capital Expenditures                184    104    99    207    166
Operational Requirements
Inc/dec in working capital         -1      1    -2      -7      -8
Inc/dec in special fund assets     36      8    21      26     33
Repayment of loans                  1      7      7      18     33
Remittances to government          76     85     90     35      17
Special fund expenditures          39    100    75      80      90
Total Operational Requirements    151    200    190    152    166
Total Applications of Funds   335    304    289    359    332
Increase/Decrease in Cash            -1     12      6     17    33
Annual Debt Service Coverage        103     22     22      7       4



- 67 -
CHINA                                         Amex 19
LE[LU111S THERtUL POIER PROJECT
ZIEJIANS PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POIER BUREAU
IIE  STAEINT
Financial Forecasts, 1Y8SW92
(In Hillians of Current Tuani
Year Ended Becember 31                  1985     1986     1997      988      1989    IY90      199      1992
Sales Increase (ZI                      7.4      10.0     13.3      5.2      11.1     11.6     26.2     15.7
Energy Sales (MMhI                     10560    11620    13160    13940    15380    17170    21ib66    25066
Average Price/k#h Ifen)                 7.5       7.5      7.5      7.7      8.2       8.9     11.1     11.3
Operating Revenue                       792       872      987     1063      1266     1531     2403     2831
Operating Costs
Fuel                                  230       269      325      366      491       b25      936     1174
Purchased power                        174      174      174      174      174       174      174      174
Operation & saintenance                 54       63       74       83       96       135      161      19l
Administration                         23        27       31       36       42        48       54       61
Sales tax                              119      131      148      160       190      230      360      425
Depreciation                           57        68       81      101      112       134      222      277
Total Operating Costs               659       731      833      920     1105      1346     1908     2292
Operating Incoae                         134      140      154      144       161      195      495      539
Interest Charged Operations               4         7       11       26       30       40       149      212
Net Income Before Incme Tax              130      134      143      119       130      145      347      327
Income Tax                               50       49        37       19       21       23        27       28
Net Income                         80        85      106       99      110       123      320      300
-=       3=     __   - 5=            =       =   __
Distribution of Net Income
Remitted to government                 29        29       17        2        3         4        7        7
Transferred to govt funds              39        42       66       76       86       100      272      277
Chargeable IDC                           0        2       10        7        6         4       25        0
Employee benefits SF                    12       12       13       14        14       15       15       16
Net Income                         90        85      106       99      110       123      320      300
=         -                C =Z    =
Rate Basm                               1216     1464     1830     2146     2469      3789     5495     6502
Rate of Return (ZI                      11.0      9.6      8.4      6.7      6.5       4.9      9.0      9.3



- 68 -
CHIN                                          Annex 20
BEILUIW1G THERMAL POIR PROJECT
ZHEJIANG6 PROVICIAL ELECTRIC PONER BUREAUJ
BALAICE SHEET
Financial Forecasts, 1985-1992
(In Millions of Current Yuan)
Year Ended December 31                1985     1986      1997     1980     1989     1990    I99       1992
Current Assets
Cash                                 139      156      179      206       238      269      309      356
Inventories                          54        61       65       70       75        g0       92      104
Receivables                           la       18       18       18        19       19       19       19
Total Current Assets              211       235      262      -294      332      368      420      479
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                    1777     2133     2658     2947      3519     5830     7288     8341
Less depreciation                  457      525      606      707       819      953     1174     1451
Operating Plant                     1320     1608     2052     2239      2699     4877     6114    6890
Construction NIP                    286       312      457     1076      1969      m       1443     2468
Total Fixed  ssets               1606      1919     2509     3315     4668      5876     7557     9359
Special Fund Assets                    127      133       135      135      135      137      137       137
Total Assets                   1944      2287     2907     3745     5134      6390     8113     9974
-s=   333= ss                                 =        r S=   2=
Current Liabilities
Acounts payable                      80        83       95       Be        91       94       99      10U
he to governmnt                       9        10       10       11        15       12       12       12
Total Current Liabilities          89        93       95       99       106      106      111      116
Consuws.   Deposit                       2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2
Norking Capital Fund                    36       36       36       36        36       36       36       36
Long-tern Debt                         459      686     1203     1975      3276     4461     5992     7635
Governent Funds                       1147     1233     1307     1340      1391     1415     1575     1723
Special Funds                          211      237      264      292       323      361      408      462
Total Liabilities              1944      2297     2907     3745     5134      6390    9113      974
===      =2=      33=       23 = =. =           = 
Debt as Z of Debt I Equity            25.3     31.8     43.4     54.7      65.7     71.5    75.1      77.8
Current Ratio                          2.4      2.5      2.8      3.0       3.1      3.5      3.8      4.1



- 69 -
KIWMA1l TNEIK PME PUIECT
DEJUIC  PRNUICIL ELECTRIC PUIB  E
FMN FLOE STTEUT
Finncial Forecasts, 1915-1992
fin   illim.  of Currat  uaal
Year EfN   DK eer 31                   1985      1986     1997     19       1m        19       1991     199    B0-92
Internal Suurce of Fnds
N.t icM                                90        0S      106        9      110      123      320       300     1141
epreciatim                             57       69        01      101      112      134      222      277       9
Nlaintuace SF allocatio                25       30        37       41       49       92       102      117      456
Cunnr cnnection SF                     30       32        33       35       36       38        0       42       256
Ttl Internal Finds                  192      214      257       276      307      376      693      735      2949
orrowiugs
Propom l lln loan                       0       29        79      140      309       34       42         0      630
Project related lowns                   0       43       I0       372      622      647      346       159     2379
m loans                               227       l39      310      347      453      590     1457      196      5192
lIChbrmued                             12       15        14       17       36       59       33       93       256
Total hbrrouinp                     239      275      592       976     1419     1329     1977     2078      8447
Governmet Funds                         129       104       70       24       39        a         0        0      243
lotal Sources of Funds          Sp       592      919      1175     1765     1714    2560      2914    11540
zuminmrnuziin                            Zmum                       ax=      xmuu    Zm        am
Capital Expnditures
Proposed project                        0       69       259      496      973      590      343       159     2790
Other construction                    355      293       390      371      491       95     1442     1800      5371
Interest during construction           12       19       33        50      100      156      17        119      594
Total Capital Expenditure           367      391      671       907     1464     1342     1903     2078     8746
Operatimal Requirements
Incldec in morting capital            -i2        4        2         2        3        2        7        7        27
Inc/dec in spKcid fad assets          -15        6        2         0        0        2        0        0        10
Repaymnt of loans                      39       50        95     IIL       125      149      381      425      1326
Ruittances to gove.nt                  28       27        17        1       -1        7        7        7        65
Special fund apenditures              101      109       118      129      143      181      222      250      1149
Total Operational Requirements      140      195      225       241      269      341      618      689      257
Total Applications of Funds       8 0    5        8%9      1148     1734     13       2520     2767    11324
Increae/lcease in Cash                   51       17        23       27       31       31       40       47       216
Annual Debt Service Coverage            4.4      3.6       2.4      1.9      1.9      2.0       1.2      1.2



- 70 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL. POWER PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the Financial Forecasts
Income Statement
1.        Energy Sales reflect ZPEPB's construction program.  ZPEPB is assumed
capable of selling its net production in part to its own customers and the
balance to the ECEPA pool.
2.        Average Revenue is derived in the schedule entitled "Average Tariff
Required to Meet the Proposed Breakeven Covenant."
3.        Fuel
Coal price for existing level of plan approved production is assumed
at the 1984 provincial average of Y 78 per ton. Price of coal for incremental
production is assumed to approach LRMC of coal at Y 169 per ton (or Y 109 per
ton in constant 1985 prices) by 1991.
Price of oil is assumed constant at the 198. level. All oil-fired
units will, be replaced by 1987.
4.        Purchased Power is at the present ECEPA pool rate of 4 fen/kWh.  In
light of ZPEPB's enormous expansion program, no additional purchase over the
1984 planned level of 4,350 GWh is assumed.
5.        Operation and Maintenance costs include an allocation to Maintenance
Special Fund of 1.4% of gross fixed asseLs, and an operation cost comprised
basically of payroll increasing at 5% p.a. and escalated at the international
inflation rates of 7% for 1986-87, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990
and 4.5% for 1991 and thereafter.
6.        Administration is assumed to be increasing at 8% p.a.  Escalation at
the international inflation rates is also applied.
7.        Sales Tax is assumed at 15% of sales revenue, which conservatively
approximates the current tax structure.
8.        Depreciation is assumed to be 3.82 of gross fixed assets in
operation at the beginning of the year.
9.        Income tax is at 55Z of operating income less debt service.
10.       Retained Earnings is an allocation to the Retained Earning Special
Fund and is assumed to be increasing at a rate of 4% p.a.



- 71 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 3
Funds Flow Statement
1.        Bworowings
The following terms are assumed for the forecast:
Source                Interest & Other Charges          Maturity & Grace Period
IBRD                  8.5X interest and 0.75Z commit-  20 years including 5
ment charge on undisbursed        years of grace
balance
Existing PCBC         3% simple interest                15 years beginning after
& local loans                                         completion of first unit
New PCBC loans        3.6% interest                     ditto
Bank of China         8% interest                       7 years beginning after
completion of first unit
B-loan/com-           8% interest                       10-15 years including
mercial credit/                                       4-5 years of grace
export credit
2.        Capital Expenditures have been escalated at the following rates:
1986-87    1988     1989    1990    1991-92
Foreign cost                  7.0%      7.5%     7.7%    7.6Z       4.5%
Local cost                    7.0%      7.5Z     7.7%    7.6%       4.5%
3.        Remittances to Government are computed as balance of net income
after debt service and allocation to Retained Earning Special Fund adjusted by
an estimated year-end payable.
4.        Special Fund Expenditures comprise direct each expenditures for the
purpose for which the Special Funds were created (para. 6.02).



- 72 -
Al EX 22
Page 3 of 3
Balance Sheet
1.        Inventories include (1) about 31 days' supply of fuel and
(2) materials at about 1Z of total gross fixed assets
2.        Receivables are nominal and assumed to be constant as large
consumers are obligated to pay in advance (para. 6.15).
3.        Plant in Service reflects the full costs of future fixed asset
additions and about 92% of fixed assets previously capitalized (para. 6.24).
No revaluation has been taken into account.



- 73 -
CHINA                                        ANNEX 23
BEILUN6A1  THERNALPOWEROJDlECT                              Page 1 of 1
ZHEJIAN PROMVINCIAL ELECTRIC POIINER BWREAU
FINAIUCIAL FORECASTS - SIRPORTING CALCULATIONS
(In Mlillions of Yuan)
AVERA6E TARIFF REgUIRED TO MlEET
THE PROPOSEI BREAKEYEN COVENANT        1985     1986      1987     1988     199      10       1991      im
Operating casts                       658      731       933      920     1105     1346     1909     2292
Interests                               4        9        20       33       37       44      174      212
Amortization ot from income            39       42        66       76       86      100      272      277
Income tax                             50       49       37        19       21       23       27       28
E  lay. beef its SF                    12       12        13       14       14       15       15        16
NOt Norking Capital Inc/D.c           -27        1o        4        2        3        4        7        7
Full Costs of Operation             736      854       974     1063     1266     1531     2403     2931
Minimu Level of Gross Revenue         736      854       974     1063     1266     1531     2403     2931
sales Volumn (Sight                 10560    11620    13160    13840    15390    17170    2166      25066
Minimum Level Df Average Tariff       7.0      7.3       7.4      7.7      8.2      8.9     11.1      11.3
SELF FINANCING RATIO                   1985     1986      1987     1988     1998     19o      1991      1992
Average Capital Expenditure             305      473       653     1014     1238     1569     1774      199
Internally Gmerated Cash                192      214      257       276      307      376      683      735
Less: Operational Requirements        113      169       207      240      270      334      611      682
Cash Available for investment            79       46        50       35       37       42       73        54
Incoue Tax                             50       49       37        19       21       23       27       2
Earned Cash                             129       95        87       54       58       65      100       82
Self Financing Ratio                     26       10         8        3        3        3        4        3
Notional Self Financing Ratio            42       20        13        5        5        4        6        4
REVALUATION OF FIXED ASSETS            1980     1991      1982     1983     1984
Historical
Grass Fixed Assets                    829      902      1055     1249     1512
Depreciation                          237      264      295       332      400
Net Fixed Assets                    591      639       760      917     1112
lith 32 p.a. Revaluation
Gross Fixed Assets                            1354      1550     1794     2114
Depreciation                                   396       433      477      559
Net Fixed Assets                             958      1117     1317     1555
r=s2r



- 74 -                            AlNN  24
Page 1 of 3
CRINA
BEILUNGANC THERHAL POWER PLANT
Economic Rate of Return
Costs
Capital Costs
1.        Costs were based on mid-1985 price level on constant price basis.
Shadow pricing was applied as follows: (i) taxes and duties were excluded;
(ii) official exchange rates were used to convert foreign currencies to
Renminbi; (iii) border prices were used for traded goods such as cement, steel
and timber; and (iv) all labor costs were first adjusted to reflect the
economic cost to the country; a conversion factor of 0.5 was then applied to
unskilled labor. No conversion is necessary for skilled labor.
Annual disbursements of project cost after shadow-pricing were
slmmarized below:
Subtrans-
Year           Generating Plant      Transmission       mission
-------Yuan million
1986                  82.4                  9.8
1987                 197.5                 25.2
1988                428.0                  82.6           50.0
1989                 506.7                 82.6           45.0
1990                 256.5                 72.2           45.0
1991                 140.0                 16.8           45.0
1992                 146.2                 20.3           45.0
Total              1,757.3                310.5           230.0
0 & H Costs
2.        The 0 & N costs were based on a fixed percentage of the capitaL cost
as follows:
0 & M Cost
Generating plant             3%
Transmission system          1%



- 75 -                           ANNEX 24
Page ' of 3
Fuel Costs
3.        The long-run marginal cost of coal (of 6,000 kcal/kg) was estimated
as follows:
Yuan per ton
(a) Production cost at mines
(about US$20/ton)                           56.0
(b)  Rail transportation from mines
to Qinghuangdao
(US$1.35 per 100 km for 640 km)             26.2
(c)  Coal handling charges at
Quinghuangdao port                            2.5
(d)  Sea freight                                     5.5
(e)  Coal handling charges at Beilungang
wharf                                         3.3
Total                                     93.5 /a
/a   This is equivalent to be about Yuan 109 per ton on a standard coal basis
(7,000 kcal/kg).
Benefits
4.        Quantifying the benefits of power projects is difficult in all
countries and particularly so in China, where tariffs and most other prices
are not subject to eonomic pressures and where most power is administratively
allocated. It is generally accepted, however, that shortages of electricity
are currently constraining China's industrial production (causing under
capacity operation) and will continue to do so in the near future. This
suggests that the economic benefits of increased po-wer supply will be
substantial - ECEPA estimates the net value of industrial output per kWh of
electricity consumed to be about Y 1.0 in the Jiangsu/Shanghai area. This
suggests that the value of electricity not served is about Y 1.0/kWh, at least
in the short run.
5.        A second point of reference is provided by the China International
Power Development Corp., which is negotiating with local and international
investors for the construction of a series of 350 MW thermal power plants.
The estimated cost of electricity is 15 fen/kWh at the retail level. This
provides an indication of the benefits of electricity as estimated on the
basis of the willingness to pay of a substantial group of customers.
6.        A more conservative estimate of the value of electricity is provided
by using the projected tariffs by L991 for ZPEPB's system as a whole but
adjusted to end-1985 price level. This estimate is used for the base case of
the estimated economic rate of return.



-76 -                                AMNU  24
Page 3 of 3
Economic Rate of Return
7.        The economic rate of return (IERR) of the project is the discount
rate which equalizes the present value of economic costs and benefits. On
this basis, the IERR of the project is about 8.5% (see Table 1 for details).
Sensitivity
8.        The IERI taking into consideration variations in the valuation of
electricity is as follows:
Average value of
electricity
constant 1985 prices   IERR
(fen/kWh)           (Z)
(a)  Base case, based on projected
tariffs by 1991                         8.6             8.4
(b)  At the Long-run average
incremental cost for ECPS              11.3            15.0
(c)  On the basis of a willingness
to pay at 15 fen/kWh for different
percentages of new consumers:
10%                                  9.2            10.2
20%                                  9.9            11.8
30%                                 10.5            13.3
40%                                 11.2            14.7
50z                                 11.8            16.0



-77-
CHIN                                            ANNE   2 4
KIZU6NI6 THERNO . PDUER PROJECT                               Table I
ECONONIC RATE OF REMU
Capital Invnetment Costs                  O   N Costs  al
Generating   Associated        Sub-                                  Fuel       Distribution    Total    Energy       Poser
Year    Plant     Transnission  transmission  Generation  Transission  Cost  b/           Cost         Costs    Sales  c/  Benefit  d/
-             - - - ---  -         -  I V million   - -- ---mi- --                                         (Cli      I    llion)
1986        52.4            9.9            0.0         0.0            0.0        0.0           0.0        92.2          0           0.0
1987       197.5           25.2            0.0         0.0            0.0       0.0            0.0       222.7          0           0.0
1919       429.0           92.6           50.0         0.0            0.0       0.0            0.0       560.6          0           0.0
1999       506.7           82.6          45.0          0.0            0.0       0.0            0.0      634.3           0           0.0
1990       256.5           72.2           45.0         0.0            0.0       0.0            0.0       373.7          0           0.0
1991       10.0            16.8           45.0        58.6            5.9      131.5          10.6       408.4      3,548         305.1
1992       146.2           20.3          45.0         58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3       560.3      7,096         610.2
1993         0.0            0.0           0.0         58.6            5.9     .63.0           21.3      349.9       7,096         610.2
I1           0.0            0.0           0.0         58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      349.9       7,096         610.2
1995         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      348.8       7,096         610.2
1996         0.0            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9     263.0           21.3       348.8      7,096         610.2
1997         0.0            0.0           0.0         58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      348.8       7,096         610.2
19           0.0            0.0           0.0         59.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      348.8       7,096         610.2
199          0.0            0.0           0.0         58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      34B.8       7,096         610.2
2000         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3       348.8      7,096         610.2
2001         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      348.8       7,096         610.2
2002         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9      263.0          21.3       348.8      7,096         610.2
2003         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3       349.8      7,096         610.2
2004         0.0            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9     263.0           21.3       348.8      7,096         610.2
2005         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     263.0           21.3      348.8       7,096         610.2
2006         0.0            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9     263.0           21.3       349.8      7,096         610.2
2007         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     227.9           18.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2009         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     227.7           18.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2009         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     227.9           19.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2010         0.0            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9      227.9          18.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2011         0.0            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9     221.9           18.4      310.8       6,150         528.9
2012         0.0            0.0            0.0        5B.6            5.9     227.9           19.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2013         0.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     227.9           18.A       310.9      6,150         528.9
2014         9.0            0.0            0.0        58.6            5.9     227.9           19.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2015         t.0            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9     227.9           18.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
2016         M.C            0.0            0.0        59.6            5.9     227.9           18.4       310.8      6,150         528.9
Economic Rate of Return = 8.41
a/ 0 & N Costs: 32 of capital investment costs for generating plant, 1 of capital investment costs for transmission facilities.
bi  Fuel Costs: using a long-run marginal cost of Y 109 per ton at plant; fuel cost is estimated at a unit consumption of .306 kg of
standard coal per kth.
d/  Sales: at a system  loss factor of 101 for transmission and distribution lossK.
e/ Benefit: priced at the projected 1991 average tariff of 8.6 fen per kth (or 11.1 fen per kWh in current Yuan adjusted for
inflation and a 10? local government tax).



- 78 -                              ANNEX 25
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 China: Long-term Issues and Options, World Bank Report No. 5206-
CHA, May 1985 (not attached).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Feasibility Report for Beilungang Thermal Power Project, ECEPDI,
September 1984 (in Chinese)
Vol. 1            Main Report
Vol. 2            Environmntal Impact Report
Vol. 3            Economic Analysis Report
Vol. 4            Hydrological and Meteorological Report
Vol. 5            Engineering Ceology Report
B.2 Environmental Impact Report, ECEPDI, September 1984
B.3 Economic Analysis of Beilungang Thermal Power Plant Based on the
Optimization of the East China System, WREPERI, June 1985
Vol. 1            Executive Suumamry
Vol. 2            Appendix
B.4 Coal Supply for Beilungang Thermal Power Station - MWREP, July 1985
(in Chinese)
B.5 Information on Beilungang Thermal Power Project, ZPEPB, February
1985
B.6 Supplemental Information prepared for the World Bank Appraisal
Mission, ZPEPB, June 1985
B.7 Statistical Data of ZPEPB for 1983 and 1984
C. Selected Work Sheets
C.1 Working sheets for Financial Forecasts



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Oranization Chat of the Eectc Power Industwy Wthln
the MlnWs  of Water Resources ond Elctric Power
-   Dbvotm.nt~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~9ph&*t
F                     of PgIn             mflo                                              Baii
repwt              D%mrnt              GuniMs
f dFaeIn~    _     f 9UCiTidt~  _     f Penoznofvd _                                                           lc |  p
Dupad m mnt           -110 d                                                                 .         i   hdt  
_   D t       _      Cqd               of            R towe           C*Vimoron
Afcsd Penne                                         Ad*rol                                     .cwf &
Depcid1011    dCapuuclo           at YvU"CAdconPmotn
d FhK                cXAtxl                                               k9e
kxeou  ~~~~fCou d nIcapon
s   & IIItct       d     k          w 
df Rtxd         N___
Wod Ba*-27760



Chart 2
so           B
IA1A
ii~~~~~~~~L----
LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



P.t Load t & Sni Cc9y
fi ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       _ _    ___                   ___ 8__   ____                          __  __  _
~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Lh Cs\L    IN I  I     I (A Int  I20 I.W                                        .1 121
_  X   . 7.  -      lu~~~~~~(X) XulhoNt ( 2A) ROwW} td(7 2 1)
~~~ (I2BM(15)
_                                    .                      ___ I_  I_  I_                            _         _  __
7 o(3W) Xuzheu-No (2W) flsed (2 Om i (3 W) lduh (u25) A  Nor (225)
YwaNIu (2W Icwo (12% DC  1m. w
*f,h,fIM) O\"u (1251 AMt T.MA(213)
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&mo (M ft%o _N% forc (  m    21v25>n **No~5 mvm                                                         I
Z                                                                                                                                  _s i SrZt atstHof26}1 tnfbOolsl nt(OM26)  fl
%%            I                                           I     ___ __i '  (=  O S  (0
i i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N=(2W
_>  ~      ~      ~     ~~ kij~i tfw| eI%d4S                 52) w.(a25)
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MK3 VOC ||                                                  l I 
A~__ I  14   -- I                                                                                                            -----1 S I
Lhou I  I2 (M) MA"U F2
__    __    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    __    __    __                                                     I        I1      '                         1



- 82 -                                  Chart 4
CHINA
BEIWNGANG THERMAL POW  PROJECT
OwgonLzaton Chat ofthe Condiuctn Unt
DM
ci-
I  ww  I~~~~~~~~~Dkt



CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Zhelang Prov ncial Electric Power Bureau
Implementation Schedule
_ -4 _U                                                                                                          iN, IAN                                                 liii , ._
A:lMn s                   A111 rtt; l1|j4AlUJj5j1   INI  J     X|wwF X IJ  =ILLO                                       A TXlbmJUl JJ]Jt|S|9| *|I|ilD )FMP
_ . I L1                 L           A A J A              AICI    A~l.I_            O I J u M             A1li~A A J I                      O     DIA_____ M    J A OIdD_                _      _     _    .AU Mj AI ?
WvAWV CGICI-ItA as".2A ~
Cr#fCVI! Js!lg5C4D.LIh CR' CC4IIS'MAT9
AAAUCrJ.MACtI                                                           ,.n
AlhlAH U' II4UEA                      rr-   -                                                                                 t._-   -  - - -   -- IT    --    --                                  - 
pRtio
9.1         os I.  IP4DD                             _ l9                                                                                                  '      '      'I                    I             H                           ^
ftA                                                                                                   - lf
f044lAcl IOC IAIl~W                                         --:                                 w / _                                                         
IClIAICAJlS|                                     |           
hUM GINhIMcOQW
CdAI
90I-ITl11.9                              1   1 1AAdA___A rl CA                                                                                                           ll 
SliOd CAWAIRcA                                                                                                                      4
CONrM^"  TT IL I ll+S M A NIArI
ASI TofHA 1I       OLA 4           6 A  1 80 CL
(Md CC,AV7I                                                                                                               4L iiC
All W   MlffaIAI    AM M
'I M. CCFIwn 1                             I       I      I      I,            I             I      I                     I      I             I      I IIcAaISI                                               I 
IYIaArAcOssn  I II I Io%'IAIIII     C   
NAA 6 OC(Y(Pc CrOCI,U lf') AICA
Cic AATRFr
as4n ADrl. EIJAuf
ASOCSCWAIIIII
C   S~TIftN
I 5 cr crr nAiM NI                                             11IIII
1MALA :i1M
IC0C.fMA,ACrbI                                                                                                                               r
crlatrrccr   l    l l  l l             l      |       l      l             l             l      l      l      l                                                 i          a     I 
_A  _I 5I I                                                                                                                                                                                                    I A       D          IIIIIIIIIII111111..111.,



IBRD 19176
i17'                1 i8-                 11, ,,               120'                lir                  111'                *i- 
3->   SH AN D ON GC,~                                                                                     CHINA                               35%
ws _ / ~~~~~~~BEI LUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
, .,, \    > _ _   (an1unqcenc;         ,                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERISIINGC CONgRyaiIlON  PILJE I wOJCI
. - 1s r tvz No7\/~mW"50f) MW; -5Tronsmstn Line
Xuih                                                                                           A          AL*'t 5 >2{   D01V Subsiotions
wUAIEFz    N \   >            z/~~~~~~~~~~~~eAr   }>          O          *          *            T~~~~~~~e  hztrmal Power Plants
f.?50 ValW     \     >                                   doJswy                                                             Hydro Power Plants 34-
I4`  O . . - t                     o                                   i                                                 Nuclear Power Plant
<   ., \   ,                                 -   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundaries
I                 ,         7 =          A            J IAN  G  S  U                                                                   339
33,   k          |f  I                                                                  I                      K ILOMkETERS 3
3L ,                              el -i     ;<ev,i--'                                                                           O  w2-
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  ~'f AF JV ILI/ f. mr.750 A0A                                      WI4/{350s1W
fd^70rHd/V<i'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A t  XX7M.;   <tC7 6    ( #^GSJ.w/,f lPr
Ab ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~NH 13-46V MI_                            &  I~~ 
Anc f .5r 4>7VV,' > ,
Xi'                                             4Cs '              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~      ~      ~~~~~ZHENHAI (250 IWW)  30' . 
-S   -- t t C-  ,O,   >.    2?   $                                            tb7iJlr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7200MtW
, \ o . Xv r _ ;,,f Hur2Z/Xos tn~~~~~~~~~~rinmerefy 24WN0W)
(   x !                 z ~~~~~H E JI A N G                   
%~~~~~ ' ;. _    A I vC  O5Pre,                                 0,t sZEO U1;50 AfwlwZfO >
JI A   N  G  X I                l,                                                                 '
|   z         <    F ~~~~~~U  J   A   N                                           v_  ,     
I  ,,-              1t,n,~~~I i-         1tc                     20              f     1',                    2'                    2
AUGUSt 198C



