Docamnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
oA   C-Cl
Report No. P-4314-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $225.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
May 6, 1986
This document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipienLs only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name  -    Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  -    Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
1985     April 1986
$1.00          =      Y2.96      Y3.20
Y1.00          =      $0.34      $0.31
(Project cost estimates are based on the exchange rate
of Y2.80 per $1.00 which prevailed at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
GWh       =    Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
km        =    Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kV             Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA            Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
kW        =    Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
kWh            Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcals)
MVA       =    Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
MW        =    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
TCF       =    Trillion cubic feet
TPD            Ton per day
TWh            Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECEPA     -   East China Electric Power Administration
ECEPDI    -   East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECPS      -   East China Power System
IAEA      -   International Atomic Energy Agency
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP     -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC      -   People's Construction Bank of China
SAA       -   State Audit Administration
SEC       -   State Economic Commission
SPC       -   State Planning Commission
WREPERI   -   Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research
Institute
ZPEPB     -   Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:               Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB)
Amount:                    $225.0 million
Terms:                     20 years, including five years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Government to ZPEPB under a subsidiary loan
agreement with a 20-year term, including five years
of grace and at an interest rate of 8.5X p.a. The
foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and RMB)
and commitment fee on the subsidiary loan would be
borne by ZPEPB.
Project Description:       The project aim is to support industrial growth in
East China by establishing a base-load thermal power
plant along the coast of Zhejiang province using
coal from Shanxi. The project would provide for
construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant
including coal unloading facilities at Beilungang
with two generating units of 600 MW each, two
single-circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and
associated substations, a training program, and a
tariff study. The station would be a state-of-the-
art plant that would set standards for similar
facilities to be built in China in the future. The
project would introduce modern techniques in dynamic
least-cost development programming and initiate
dialogue on the modernization of utility management
and financial planning, which are important sectoral
issues. Cofinancing through commercial banks or
export credits is being considered for the financing
of the second unit of major equipment items. The
project faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance
of their offtcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
-  -~ ($ million) -
Site development                            21.9         -         21.9
Buildings and civil works                  .87.5       34.0       121.5
Boiler plant facilities                     25.5       98.0       123.5
Turbine generator facilities                 17.9     118.0       135.9
Balance of plant equipment                   39.4      70.9       110.3
Transmission lines and substations           78.9      38.2       117.1
Construction and office equipment            11.1       5.0        16.1
Engineering and consulting services           2.5       4.0         6.5
Supervision and administration               15.7        -         15.7
Training                                      1.6       3.3         4.9
Tariff study                                  0.5       0.2         0.7
Base Cost:                                 302.5      371.6       674.1
Physical contingencies                       33.7      18.4        52.1
Price contingencies                          96.5     104.3       200.8
Total Project Cost:                         432.7     494.3       927.0
Interest during construction                 36.1      81.8       117.9
Total Financing Required:                  468.8      576.1    1,044.9
Note: The project is exempted from import duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
=$ million) -        -
IBRD loan                                     -       225.0       225.0
Commercial bank loans and/
or export credits                           -       156.0       156.0
Local bank loans                           468.8      195.1       663.9
Total                                    468.8      576.1    1,044.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY             1986   1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
…- - ------------ ($ million) ----------
Annual                     -    30.0    40.0    80.0    40.0    25.0   10.0
Cumulative                 -    30.0    70.0   150.0   190.0   215.0  225.0
Economic Rate of Return:  8.5%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5889-CHA dated May 5, 1986
Map: IBRD No. 19176



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Beilungang Thermal Power
Project. The loan for $225.0 million would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, with standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of
the loan would be onlent from the Government to the Zhejiang Provincial
Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB) under a subsidiary loan agreement for a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, and at an interest rate of 8.5%
p.a. ZPEPB would bear the foreign exchange risk (between the dollar and the
Borrower's currency) and commitment fee on the subsidiary loan. Cofinancing
through commercial banks or export credits is being considered.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
manAgement and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to CDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real CDP growth averaged 5Z p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 1OX p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50Z in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8% p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over lOX p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12Z p.a. vs. 9X p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value erew at
close to 12Z p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 6O0 as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8Z p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1q80, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of CDP in 1979 to less
than 1X in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios remained at
low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and China's foreign
currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over seven months'
imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
early 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective inditect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 36%. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but preliminary figures show an
inflation rate of 9X for 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from
$4 billion in 1983 to over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase
occurring in the second half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in
consumer goods imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a
result, foreign exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about
$10 billion by July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of imports), and the



current account deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of
$10 billion. The Government has responded quickly by launching a strict
stabilization program that includes further increases in interest rates as
well as a series of administrative directives governing bank credit and
project approval. As a result, aggregate credit and demand as welL as new
import orders have begun to slow, though total imports will continue to rise
as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The CentraL Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (whi-h concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capical by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement
agencies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other



- 4 -
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed invest-
ment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in spite of
efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly
enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20X above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban lving
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of fiscal
and monetary macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The
People's Bank of China was established as a separate central bank at the
beginning of 1984, with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly
created Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of
credit planning and control were introduced and lower-level and specialized
banks were given significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (includ-
ing deposit rates) were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification
of rates and development of a term structnre resembling that in other coun-
tries. Technical transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and
loans for working capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of



- 5 -
longer maturity carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However,
interest rates on budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants)
remain low and there are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the
external side greater use is now being made of the exchange rate. The old
internal settlement rate was abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between
January and end-October 1985 the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over
13%. Despite these changes progress in developing new indirect levers of
control has been slow. Recent difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance
highlight the need to strengthen inctitutions and macroecoraonic management
tools (including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instrumnts) for a decen-
tralized and more market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In March 1986 a national congress discussed a detailed proposal for
a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the period 1986-90. The proposal
reaffirms a political commitment to economic reform and provides guidelines
for future reform and development. One of the main objectives of the plan
will be to create a favorable environment for reform which, in turn, will set
the stage for future development. Target growth rates (7% p.a. for industry,
6A for agriculture, a little over 7% for GNP) are below rates of growth
achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, investment is to be restrained in the
next few years, and emphasis is to be placed upon quality rather than quantity
of output. It is felt that slower growth will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of refora.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: givi'ag enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be tirned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and



- 6 -
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. T'.e plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agricuLture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small-
and medium-sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physicaLltechnical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
.n transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the v-age system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. .leforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accouncs for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,



backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid, sus-
tained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50 over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8X p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9Z p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade,
equivalent to about 1% of CNP. This implies that the present debt service
ratio would ir.crease only moderately by 1990. If China's exports grow more
slowly, imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher borrowing
target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would probably
run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have sub-
stantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the decade.
Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at 8Z p.a.
and imports at 9% p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit would be
over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be about
$6.5 billion.  If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and imp ,rts
continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital for financing development and modern-
ization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of con-
cessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the
rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in proposals for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan, to increase efficiency and innovation, and to maintain
equity in distribution, China will need continuing economic reforms. Large
investment will be required and China will need to import more technology,
increase trade and expand investment. In the next few years, therefore, the
Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign rechnology and
capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will help to
increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.



- 8 -
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology and improve
efficiency, the Bank will play the role of intermediary. In transportation,
energy, industry, agriculture and the social sectors, the Bank will contribute
to technology transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project
design and implementation and by helping China to seek appropriate technical
solutions through international competitive bidding, training, and foreign
technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts.  There are five major elements common to both rural and urban refcrms
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decision making, will extend to
every sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector .eform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises as well as in infra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies.  And
finalLy, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work aims at expanding the Bank's
understanding of the structure of the Chinese economy and the direction of its
movement and introducing to the Government new tools of economic management.
This work lays a foundation for lending and for a dialogue with the Government
on issues of reform and development. Past work has included two major
economic reports, studies on sectoral investment analysis and planning, and
collaborative research with Chinese institutions. The Bank has also organized
seminars on macroeconomic and sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
sector work to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic
report and analyze policy options. In this program, the Bank will examine
alternatives for developing the financial system, foreign trade and
investment. It will also analyze issues of intersectoral investment
coordination and development of resource-poor regions. One such study is
already under way in Gansu province to improve the efficiency of development
and reduce poverty. Research on urban development, transport planning and
regional industrial development will also be undertaken, and regional
industrial subsectors will be reviewed. Collaborative studies with Chinese
research institutions will continue. An ongoing study of management and
guidance of state enterprises will be followed by a study of collective
enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly important industrial
organizations in the reformed system.



-9-
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
Kay 1980, 37 projects involving lending of $3,709.9 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, twelve have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy, six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two in
technical cooperation and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC
made its first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile manu-
facturing. Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and
IFC investment as of March 31, 1986.
29-.      In addition to the proposed project and the already approved
projects for second rural credit, third industrial credit, second technical
cooperation credit, provincial universities, third railway, Tianjin port and
fresh water fisheries, we expect to present to the Board this year an
additional power project and projects for petroleum and health. For FY87 and
beyond, we expect the China lending program to continue to grow from current
levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu province.
30.       In tae energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will provide for technology
transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power tariff
study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost and to
increase the awareness of the need for a nationwide power system development
program. In the petroleum subsector, the rationale for Bank involvement will
lie in the identification, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies
as well as in the strengthening of investment and resource use planning and
management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organizatinn and financ-
ing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and intro-
duction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways,
we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equip-
ment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrifi-
cation. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal
shipping and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will
support efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending wLll focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be supported
through rural credit projects. We will continue to assist with the training,
research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries concerned
with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for specialized



- 10 -
agricultural development such as livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation
and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional pro-
jects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, agriculture and rural water supply and
will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore further
options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularLy as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assis-
tance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be a
cooperating agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activ-
ities remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years
will provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese
officials, and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific
training for officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the State Planning
Commission (SPC), have established and staffed offices to handle Bank pro-
jects. Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts
have been established for many of the approved projects and have helped to
speed disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate pro-
ject preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Overview
38.       China is the world's fourth largest producer and third largest
consumer of comercial energy. Coal is by far the most important source of
energy in China, accounting for some 70X of its commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil production has increased rapidly over the last three decades to
become an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings,
representing about 18% and 20Z of the respective totals. About 20% of oil
production and 1% of coal production are currentLy exported. Natural gas
(21), hydroelectric power (5%) and limited quantities of shale oil and geo-
thermal power make up the balance of commercial energy. Non-commercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about 401 of commercial production.
39.       China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been remarkable. The annual production of coal has
increased from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 760 million tons in 1984.
During the same period, annual oil production increased from 0.1 million tons
to 114 million tons, and annual electricity generation increased f gm about
7.3 TWh to 377 TWh. However, the recent economic report on China - has
concluded that slow growth of energy supplies could constitute a constraint to
the Government's efforts to quadruple the gross value of industrial and
agricultural output (GVIAO) from 1980 to 2000. To ensure sufficient energy
for economic development, China will need to increase coal production beyond
current targets for the year 2000 and meet at least the official output
targets set for all types of energy resources. Meeting these targets will
require the strengthening of planning and coordination among the diverse
components of the energy sector and also the transportation sector. In
addition, serious subsectoral constraints on technology, logistics, management
and financing need to be removed.
40.       In view of the complexity of the problems anticipated in the attempt
to balance supply and demand, it is crucial for China to formulate and
implement a comprehensive and coherent long-term strategy directed at both
efficient energy development and utilization. The Government, in its Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1981-85), accorded high priority to development of the energy
and transport sectors, and these objectives will be further emphasized in the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90). The Bank has supported the Government's
objectives and formulation of a coherent sectoral strategy through economic
and sector work as well as lending operations.
1/   "China:  Long-Term Issues and Options," Report No. 5206-CHA, May 22,
1985.



- 12 -
Resource Endowment
41.       China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and lignite
reserves are concentrated largely in the north and northeast, which have about
70% of the total recoverable reserves (640 billion tons). Future plans call
for increasing coal production significantly, but difficulty in transport
(essentially a shortage of railroad capacity) appears to be a serious obstacle
to achieving this objective. Biomass fuels are the second most important
source of energy in China, accounting for an estimated 30% of final
consumption. Recoverable reserves of oil onshore have been variously
estimated between 6-15 billion tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves
range from 3-10 billion tons. Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas have
so far been estimated at about 3 trillion cubic feet tTCF), about 90% of which
are located in Sichuan province. In addition, recoverable reserves of
associated gas are estimated at about 1.8 TCF. Unofficial estimates of oil
shale in China place reserves at 400 billion tons. China's hydropower
potential, among the largest in the world, is estimated at 1900 TWh p.a., of
which 87 TWh p.a. have so far been developed. A major constraint has been
that the bulk of the undeveloped potential is in four major basins in
southwestern and northwestern China, where large-scale development would
require transmission distances of 1,200-1,500 km to major industrial load
centers. The known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000
MW of nuclear power plant for 30 years. Although potential sources of
geothermal energy are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the
country, their role is likely to remain limited due to their distance from
major load centers.
Efficiency of Energy Use
42.       China's consumption of energy per unit of CDP is well above that of
any major developed or developing country. Several factors contribute to the
high intensity and relative inefficiency of fuel use, which is particularly
evident in the industrial sector: the structure of industrial production, the
scale of industrial units; the raw materials used; the technology employed;
and industrial organization and operating practices. In the late 1970s, it
became evident that the high rate of energy consumption could not be sus-
tained. The Government took administrative measures to reduce the rapid
growth of energy consumption, including quotas, adoption of energy efficiency
measures, retrofitting, marginal adjustments of industrial structure and the
importation of energy efficient technology. These measures have had some
success. Primary commercial energy consumption per unit of industrial and
agricultural ouput has been dropping steadily since 1979.
43.       As a result, there has been an impressive improvement in overall
energy efficiency during the past five years. Energy consumption per unit of
GVIAO declined by 7% p.a. during 1979-81, and by 3% p.a. during 1982-83.
Preliminary data indicate a further reduction of almost 7% in 1984. Technical
and operational improvements are estimated to have accounted for about 40% of
these energy savings. The other 60% came from a decline in the relative
importance of heavy industry, the closure of some inefficient small-scale
plants and other structural changes within industrial subsectors.



- 13 -
44.       Although the recent administrative measures have been effective in
promoting energy efficiency, the process of fine-tuning the current system to
provide economic signals to consumers and incentives for further improvements
in efficiency will become increasingly complex. There is thus a need
initially to complement and gradually to replace the administrative controls
with a more flexible allocation system that would provide greater autonomy to
individual entities. The system would increasingly rely on an energy price
structure that reflects the relative scarcity of each source of energy. This
would influence consumption in the direction of the optimal least-cost mix of
energy sources required to meet future demand. Such reform of the allocation
system would be a key component of a strategy to stimulate the adjustments in
the structure of energy consumption which are necessary for balancing energy
supply with demand in the long-term.
The Power Subsector
45.       Power development in China has registered high rates of growth
during the last three decades. Annual per capita generation of electricity
has grown from 8 kWh in 1949 to 363 kWh in 1984. Of the total installed
capacity of 79,920 MW in 1984, 32Z was hydro and 68% was thermal. Power is
distributed through 30 grids, of which 13 (representing over 80% of the total
capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Energy sales in 1984 reached 319 TWh, having
grown at an average 13.8% p.a. since 1949. Of these sales, 80% represented
industrial consumption, 9% agricultural, 1% transportation and 10% residential
and urban commercial usage. About 60% of the population has access to
electricity.
The Market for Electricity
46.       Electricity consumption increased at an average rate of 10.7% p.a.
between 1965 and 1979, but this pace slowed during 1979-84 when it averaged
only 6.4% p.a. The major reason for the lag has been the inability of the
power subsector to fully meet demand, particularly in China's major industrial
centers. The power shortage countrywide was estimated at about 40 TWh p.a.,
or more than 15% of industrial electricity requirements. The recent economic
report on China estimates that by the year 2000 generation of 960-1,290 TWh
(equivalent to 109,000-178,000 MW in additional generating capacity) would be
needed to meet the requirements of China's national income growth targets.
47.       The share of electricity in total energy consumption has histori-
cally been low compared with that of other countries. The principal factors
underlying this low share appear to be: (a) the relatively low level of elec-
tricity use in the residential and commercial sectors; and (b) the relative
inefficiency of fuel consumption in the industrial sector which decreases the
relative share of electricity in total industrial energy consumption. As a
result of China's rapid development in recent years, the share of electricity
in total energy consumption has been increasing despite serious supply
constraints, rising from about 13% of final commercial energy use in 1970 to
about 15% in 1975 and 18% in 1980. This share is expected to continue to
grow, reaching 26-27% in year 2000 - is a level comparable to that currently
prevailing in other major developing countries. The manufacturing sector is
projected to continue to account for at least three-quarters of final electri-



- 14 -
city consumption, although electricity use per unit of value added is likely
to fall slightly. ELectricity use in residential and commercial sectors is
expected to grow at 11-13% p.a., reflecting a gradual improvement in living
conditions and rapid growth of the service sector. Electricity use in trans-
portation is also projected to grow, reflecting the increase in the share of
electric locomotives in total railway haulage.
Institutions
48.       In the Government reorganization of 1982, the Ministry of Water
Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) was designated to oversee electric power
development and water resource management, including policymaking and system
planning as well as the design, construction and operation of major power and
water resource projects. Under MWREP, there are six regional power adminis-
trations which coordinate operations and load dispatching for the regional
power grids and formulate long-term development plans for approval by MWREP
and SPC. Below the regional administrations are 22 provincial and municipal
power bureaus operating as parts of the regional grids, while eight other
power bureaus still operate in isolation.
Tariffs
49.       Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant since 1953.
[iunough minor rcional adjustments over the years, tariffs have become
reasonably uniform throughout the country, except in the northeast where costs
have been lower because electricity was supplied predominantly by hydro-power
generation, even in the early years. The average revenue per unit has been
increasing due to the growing share of consumption by light industries,
commercial and residential users which pay higher rates. The national average
was about 6.9 fen/kWh (USC2.3/kWh) in 1984.
50.       In the context of Chinese accounting practices, which in the past
did not include in costs any return on capital (other than depreciation), this
tariff yielded satisfactory financial performance for the power sector as a
whole. However, this situation is changing because of recent changes in the
Government's financial policies. Since 1982, capital investments in the power
sector have been financed through domestic and foreign borrowing rather than
through Government budgetary allocation as in the past. In addition, fuel
costs have been rising and are expected to rise further, particularly with the
ongoing increases in coal prices and the expected increases in rail tariffs
(which will affect delivered coal costs).  As a result of these changes in the
costs of electricity, and in line with the Government's policy to reform its
economic allocation system, the Government is considering a review of elec-
tricity tariffs.  To assist the Government with this review, the project will
include a tariff study that is designed to (a) transfer a practical, state-of-
the-art tariff analysis methodology to China; (b) serve as a reference for
future power tariff adjustments in the East China region; and (c) serve as a
model for tariff reform in other regions of China.



- 15 -
Manpower and Training
51.       MWREP has about 2.5 million employees of whom about 51% are directly
under the Ministry and about 49Z are under the provincial administrations. Of
the total, less than 30Z have received formal education beyond junior secon-
dary school level. In general, the quality of staff intake has been low;
there is a severe shortage of trained manpower, particularly for administra-
tive and technical positions.
52.       In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to
upgrade the quality of its staff at all levels. Although MWREP has organized
the program, much of the implementation has been carried out by the provincial
power bureaus. The Ministry's immediate goal is to establish a comprehensive
program that will systematically provide training to existing staff. MWREP is
also strengthening its capacity for full-time training of potential employees
through its Education Department which sponsors 4 universities, 39 technical
colleges, television and correspondence universities as well as 27 secondary-
level vocational schools. The total number of students enrolled in these
institutions was 17,700 in 1984. About 15,300 graduates are assigned to MWREP
annually - 7,000 at four-year college level and 8,300 at junior college level.
These programs, supplemented by periodic in-service short courses for manage-
rial and technical staff and on-the-job training for workers, are expected to
gradually lead to improved productivity in the sector. Tiie quality of staff
will eventually improve, but the rate of change is still low. In support of
these activities and the project entity's objectives for human resource devel-
opment, the proposed project would include a training component.
Planning
53.       Power system planning at the regional and provincial levels is
carried out by the regional electric power administrations and the provincial
electric power bureaus. Overall planning is the responsibility of the Plan-
ning Department of MWREP which reviews the plans proposed by the regional
administrations and provincial bureaus for the short-term (annual), medium-
term (5-years) and long-term (10-15 years). For major hydro projects, the
investigation, planning and design are carried out by the regional hydro-
electric investigation and design institutes. For system expansion, trans-
mission lines and substations above 110kV and major thermal projects, the
studies, planning and design are carried out by the regional electric power
design institutes. MWREP, like other line ministries, operates under the
overall supervision of SPC and the State Economic Commission (SEC), in which
are vested the ultimate authority for project approval, budget allocation,
financing arrangements and supervision.
54.       Under current plans, coal-based thermal power generation will
continue to provide at least three quarters of total generation through the
end of the century. There are important issues in this area concerning plant
location and transmission network planning. For example, the locational
decisions will have to carefully balance the advantages of plant location at
the coal mine sites -- requiring long-distance transmission to major load
centers -- versus development near load centers and port areas to which large
quantities of coal would be transported by rail and/or water. Thus planning



- 16 -
decisions have to take into account factors such as the regional distribution
of coal resources, regional differences in coal development costs, relative
costs of coal transportation and power transmission, environmental implica-
tions, and external conditions such as the availability of water for cooling
purposes.
55.       As the planning of China's power subsector development becomes
increasingly complex, up-to-date system planning techniques will need to be
adopted, particularly to evaluate the feasibility and optimal timing of large-
scale projects with long lead times and to make decisions about the generating
plant mix, power plant location, and grid architecture. To assist MWREP in
acquiring these techniques, arrangements were made under the second power
project (Loan No. 2493) for introducing least-cost investment programming
techniques through the assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA). The Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute
(WREPERI) in Beijing has assisted the East China Electric Power Administration
(ECEPA) to formulate a least-cost development program for the East China power
grid.
Technology Transfer
56.       The transfer and development of modern technologies will be crucia.
if China is to increase energy production and efficiency sufficiently co
achieve its broader economic goals. Technology transfer is especially impor-
tant for thermal power plants, where increasing deployment of high-pressure,
large-scale units and greater development of cogeneration could reduce net
fuel consumption by some 20Z by the year 2000, thus greatly alleviating
pressures on coal supplies and transportation. The Government is already
implementing this strategy through the gradual introduction of standardized
300 MW and 600 MW coal-fired units. The Bank would assist in the provision of
the state-of-the-art technology in the construction and operation of 600 KW
units under the proposed project.
Subsector Objectives and Policies
57.       The basic objectives of the Government for the power subsector are
to modernize, increase efficiency, and expand the power system at a rate
sufficient to meet the requirements of industrial development. To achieve
these objectives, the Government is pursuing the following policies:
(a) a phased increase in the financial autonomy of enterprises;
(b) gradual introduction of a more rational pricing system;
(c) introduction of modern techniques in project design and system
planning;
(d) acceleration of hydro development;
(e) development of mine-mouth, coal-fired thermal stations supplemented
where necessary by stations located near port areas and load
centers;



- 17 -
(f) construction of extra high voltage transmission lines to transmit
power from remote hydro sites and mine-mouth thermal stations and
for interconnection between regions;
(g) progressive replacement of medium- and low-pressure thermal units
with larger size and higher pressure units to improve fuel
efficiency, and the conversion of oil-fired units to coal-firing;
(h) development of nuclear units in areas where other forms of energy
are scarce; end
(i) improvement of energy efficiency.
Subsector Issues
58.       Shortage of Generating Capacity.  In spite of considerable growth in
generating capacity, supply has lagged behind demand and shortages are
reported in the Northeast, North, South and East China grids. The power
shortage countrywide was estimated at about 40 TWh in energy in 1984. Demand
management has been carried out in these regions by staggering holidays,
changing working hours, and load shedding during shortages according to agreed
priorities.
59.       Inadequate Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  The develop-
ment of transmission lines and substation facilities has lagged behind that of
generation. No interconnection has yet been made between regions and there
are about eight provincial grids still operating in isolation. MWREP has
estimated that China has a shortage of about 10,000 km of transmission lines
at voltages above 110 kV. Similar shortages exist in substation capacity.
Lower voltage subtransmission and distribution facilities are currently being
financed by the provincial governments or municipalities. The local authori-
ties usually do not allocate sufficient funds for the improvement and exten-
sion of these facilities which results in high system losses and inefficient
use of energy.
60.       Financial Constraints have been a major factor in the shortage of
generating capacity and the inadequacy of transmission and distribution
facilities. In the past, limited budgetary allocations have caused consider-
able slow-down of power projects. Recently, the funding mechanism has under-
gone considerable revision; this, along with the possibility of increasing
the level of sectoral self-financing through tariff increases, should increase
the availability of financing.
61.       Technology Transfer and Training.  Despite some progress, China's
technology in thermal power plant design, least-cost investment programming,
load dispatching and application of computers falls short of levels prevailing
in developed countries. The age profile of the engineering staff is highly
skewed; most are in their 50s and 60s. Only strenuous efforts to train young
graduates now emerging from universities will narrow the gap. This may
involve establishing specialized training institutes as well as providing on-
the-job training within the country and training abroad at utility companies



- 18 -
and other institutions. A greater understanding of the subsector's training
requirement in necessary before an appropriate solution can be developed and
encouraged. The Bank plans to address this issue in the context of a
subsector-oriented training program.
Role of the Bank
62.       The Bank's strat:egy for involvement in China's power subsector has
been to use its lending operations to assist the Government in solving tech-
nical problems and rationalizing investment decisions. The Bank is implement-
ing this strategy by introducing to China modern methods of system planning,
project preparation, construction, operation and utility management.
63.       The first power project (Lubuge hydroelectric, Loan No. 2382) will
provide 600 MW of generating capacity and associated transmission system to
the Yunnan power grid. The project successfully promoted cofinancing arrange-
ments, including export credits for the major electrical and mechanical equip-
ment and bilateral grants for engineering services. It also introduced
international competitive bidding for civil works and modern construction
techniques for a rockfill dam, power tunnel and underground powerhouse, and
enhanced the financial autonomy of the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
(YPEPB). The project included training for staff of the Kunming Hydroelectric
Investigation and Design Institute (KHIDI), the Lubuge Project Construction
Management Bureau (LPCMB) and training for YPEPB in design, construction
management, quality control, accounting and cost control through consultants
services.
64.       The second power project (Loan No. 2493 for a 500 kV transmission
line from Xuzhou to Shanghai) will transmit a large block of power from a
mine-mouth coal-fired thermal power station at Xuzhou (500 MW in operation and
4 units of 200 MW under construction) to the East China power grid. This
project also successfully promoted cofinancing with a bilateral loan for the
Yangtze river crossing works and rrovided for the transfer of the latest
technology in 500 kV transmission line and substation design, construction,
operation and maintenance to the East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI) and the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bureau (JPEPB). A training
component included the establishment of a treining center and equipment for
two other technical schools in Nanjing and Shanghai for the operation and
maintenance of 500 kV transmission lines and substations.
65.       Under the proposed project the Bank would finance a fully integrated
state-of-the-art 600 KW coal-fired unit that will be used to set technical and
economic performance standards for a series of same-size units to be installed
in China and a 500 kV transmission system connected to the East China power
grid. Cofinancing would be sought for the second unit. The project would
also introduce the concept of a least-cost expansion plan as a basis for
evaluating power projects, and is expected to contribute to the formulation of
a more rational tariff through a tariff study. A program to meet the needs
for project-related training and long-term human resources development would
also be included.



- 19 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
66.       The project was identified in September 1984 and appraised in June
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington on April 14 to 16, 1986, with a
delegation headed by Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director, External Finance
Department, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5889-CHA,
dated May 5, 1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A map (IBRD No. 19176) showing the project location is attached.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
67.       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to provide
additional electric power to support China's economic growth; (b) to make
efficient use of China's abundant coal reserves; (c) to build extra high
voltage transmission lines for connecting optimal generating sites with load
centers and facilitate eventual interconnection; (d) to transfer the latest
technology in plant design and construction management of 600 MW thermal
generating units; (e) to introduce more appropriate techniques of dynamic
least-cost investment programming; (f) to initiate dialogue in utility
management and financial planning; and (g) to transfer the most up-to-date
tariff analysis methodologies and provide a reference for future tariff
adjustments.
Project Description
68.       The project would comprise:
(a) construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant, including coal
unloading facilities at Beilungang with two generating units of
600 MW each;
(b) construction of two single circuits of 500 kV transmission lines and
two associated substations to interconnect with the East China power
grid and ZPEPB's existing transmission system;
(c) provision of consulting services for engineering, detailed design,
procurement and construction management of the thermal power plant;
(d) a training program; and
(e) a tariff study for the East China power grid.
Project Management and Implementation
69.       The beneficiary of the proposed project would be the Zhejiang Pro-
vincial Electric Power Bureau (ZPEPB), a state-owned enterprise under the di-
rection of MWREP through the East China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA).
ZPEPB is assigned responsibility by the Government for the execution within
its ju-isdiction of the government program for power generation, capital in-
vestment, power sales and tariffs, employment and payroll, materials consump-
tion and tax and profit remittances to the center. A charter of ZPEPB accept-
able to the Bank has been issued.



- 20 -
70.       ZPEPB is headed by a director who is appointed by MWREP.  Three
deputy directors and a chief accountant are functionally responsible to him
for capital construction; production, supply and technical matters; labor,
personnel and training; and finance. Operations are carried out through a
number of units engaged in power generation, distribution, construction, and
repair. Each of these units is headed by a director with line responsibility
to the director of ZPEPB.
71.       As of the end of 1984, ZPEPB employed about 27,800 workers.  Except
for the core technical and managerial personnel who are assigned by the HWREP,
virtually all of ZPEPB's employees are recruited locally. They are hired on a
permanent basis with the exception of some contract labor for construction
work. Of the total employed, only about 15% have received technical training
equivalent to or above college level. The majority of the workers have less
than nine years of formal education. ZPEPB administers through its Education
Division four institutes for the training of junior engineers, mid-level tech-
nicians and skilled workers. The training capacity is not adequate to meet
the long-term need. The quality of teaching staff and training facilities and
equipment also need to be upgraded and modernized. A training component has
therefore been included in the proposed project.
72.       The feasibility studies for the project were carried out by the East
China Electric Power Design Institute (ECEPDI). Engineering and detailed
design of the project are being carried out by ECEPDI with assistance from a
consulting engineer. Bidding documents for boilers and turbine generators
were issued in December 1985. Bids were opened on March 24, 1986 and are now
being evaluated by ZPEPB with the assistance of the consulting engineer. The
construction and installation of power station, transmission lines and
substations would be the responsibility of ZPEPB, which would contract all or
part ." the works to domestic contractors through local competitive bidding.
Site preparatory work began in January 1986. Construction supervision and
management would be carried out by a construction unit under ZPEPB with the
assistance of a consulting engineer. The facilities when constructed would
remain in the ownership of ZPEPB, which would have ultimate responsibility for
their operation and maintenance.
73.       The commissioning dates of the first and second 600 MW units are
scheduled for December 1990 and December 1991, respectively. The project
completion date is June 30, 1992. As the Bank loan would cover the first unit
only, the closing date of the Bank loan has been set at June 30, 1992 which
would allow adequate time for payment of retention monies.
Technical Assistance and Training
74.       EBASCO, a U.S. firm, has been appointed as the Consulting Engineer
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Phase I services for project preparation
include: (a) review of conceptual design prepared by ECEPDI; (b) preparation
of a detailed cost estimate and construction schedule; (c) preparation of
bidding documents; and (d) assistance in bid evaluation and contracting.
About $1.8 million have been provided for this purpose as one of the subpro-
jects under the Technical Cooperation Credit (Cr. 1412-CHA).



- 21 -
75.       Phase II services would include technical assistance for:  (a) engi-
neering and detailed design; (b) review and approval of manufacturer's shop
and design drawings; (c) inspection, coordination and expediting; (d) con-
struction management; and (e) testing, startup and commissioning. These
services would be financed under the proposed Bank loan.
76.       Training will be carried out in three categories:  (a) training
related directly to the project, including training of staff in design, con-
struction, operation and maintenance of a 600 MW thermal power station;
(b) training related to long-term human resources development, including
extension and upgrading of the four existing training institutes; and
(c) study tours and training for managers of ECEPA and provincial electric
power bureaus in utility management and financial planning. ZPEPB will be
responsible for training under (a) and (b); ECEPA will be repsonsible for that
under (c). Assurances have been obtained that ZPEPB and the Government would
carry out this training in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank.
Tariff Study
77.       A tariff study for the East China power system will be carried out
to review the level and structure of the power tariff on the basis of long-run
marginal cost. The study will also take into account other considerations
such as the financial requirements and objectives of ECEPA and ZPEPB. The
study will be carried out by ECEPA, ZPEPB and WREPERI with the assistance of
Bank staff. Assurances have been obtained that such a study will be carried
out in accordance with a work program acceptable to the Bank.
Cost Estimates
78.       The cost estimates are based on end-1985 price levels.  Physical
contingencies include 5% for foreign costs, as the cost of equipment for
thermal power plants is well-defined, 15% for civil works, and 10% for other
local costs. Price escalations for both foreign and local costs are calcu-
lated on the basis of the projected international inflation rates of 7.0% for
1986-87, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5% for 1991 and
thereafter. The total financing required is $1,044.9 million equivalent,
including interest during construction. The project would be exempted from
customs duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
79.       The proposed Bank loan of $225.0 million would meet about 24% of
total project cost or about 39% of foreign exchange requirements. It would be
used to cover the foreign costs of the following components of the first unit
and common facilities for the first and second units:
(a) construction equipment for civil works and plant installation;
(b) steel piling and other steel products (net imported items);
(c) boiler island package;



- 22 -
(d) turbine-generator island package;
(e) coal handling package;
(f) ash disposal system package;
(g) instrumentation and control package;
(h) electrical equipment package;
(i) equipment and materials for the first circuit of 500 kV transmission
lines and substations;
(j) consulting services;
(k) hardware and software of computers for ZPEPB and WREPERI; and
(1) training facilities (including a simulator) and services and
overseas training; and
(m) a tariff study.
80.       The foreign exchange requirement of $576.1 million is expected to be
met by the proposed Bank loan ($225.0 million), commercial bank loans and/or
export credits ($156.0 million) and local bank loans ($195.1 million). The
local cost ($468.8 million equivalent) is to be financed through local bank
loans. Cofinancing through commercial bank loans or export credits is being
considered for the financing of the second unit.
81.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to China at the standard
variable interest rate for a 20-year term including five years of grace.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would onlend the proceeds of the
Bank loan to ZPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20-year term,
including five years of grace at an interest rate of 8.5% p.a., and that ZPEPB
would bear the commitment charges and foreign exchange risk (between the
dollar and the Borrower's currency). A Project Agreement will be concluded
between the Bank and ZPEPB. Execution of an acceptable subsidiary loan agree-
ment between the Goverament and ZPEPB and approval of the Loan Agreement by
the State Council would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursement
82.       Equipment and materials financed under the prorosed Bank loan will
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would be
eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15X or the import duty, which-
ever is lower. Equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 pef contract up
to an aggregate amount of $5.0 million could be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) on the basis of bids invited from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelir.es. The civil works and plant
erection which would not be financed under the Bank loan would be procured
through local competitive bidding (LCB).



- 23 -
83.       Details of procurement if goods and services are shown in the table
below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENTS
t$ million)
Procurement method                 Total
ICB       LIB        Others/b    N.A.       cost
Site development              -         -          25.2         -         25.2
Civil works                   -         -         120.8         -        120.8
Equipment and materials   234.0 /a    5.0         508.1         -        747.1
(211.9)     (5.0)                    -        (216.9)
Engineering and consult-
ing services                -         -           8.7        -           8.7
(4.4)                  (4.4)
Training                      -         -           6.5         -          6.5
(3.5)                  (3.5)
Supervision and
administration              -         -            -        18.0        18.0
Tariff study                  -         -           0.7         -          0.7
(0.2)                  (0.2)
Total                 234.0       5.0        670.0      18.0        927.0
(211.9)     (5.0)       T1)          -        (225.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
;b   "Others" include procurement of equipment and materials for the second
unit, goods procured locally, civil works and plant installation to be
executed by various construction companies, and other local costs.
84.       In the procurement of the first unit financed under the Bank loan,
bidders were encouraged to bid for the second unit on a cash basis with an
optional financial offer. The Government will determine the financing plan of
the second unit based on the terms and conditions of financial offers made.
All bidding packages for goods financed by the Bank and estimated to cost over
$1.0 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documents, which covers nearly all of the foreseen Bank-financed
contracts.
85.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100Z of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the cost of
other items procured locally; and (d) 100% of total expenditures of consulting
services and training. For expenditures relating to training and contracts
for goods and services each valued less than $200,000 equivalent,
reimbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
Documentation supporting such expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank



- 24 -
but would be retained in the ZPEPB project office in Ningpo and made available
for review by the Bank's supervision missions. To facilitate disbursements
under this project, a Special Account with an authorized allocation of
$8 million would be established. Applications for replenishment will be
submitted quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50% of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.
Accounting and Auditing
86.       ZPErB maintains its accounts on an accrual basis using a double
entry system and follows accounting procedures laid down by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). ZPEPB's operating departments prepare accounting information
monthly; the headquarters compiles consolidated accounts monthly, quarterly
and annually. ZPEPB has a relatively large accounting staff who are well
trained in maintaining ledgers and compiling accounts. The accounts are used
essentially to document historical financial information. As ZPEPB modernizes
its financial management practices, it will need to learn to analyze financial
and cost accounts for decisionmaking. The Bank has furnished a financial
forecasting model to ZPEPB to enable it to study the impact of expansion plans
and price variations on its future financial positions. Assurances have been
obtained that, by December 31 of each year, ZPEPB will furnish to the Bank a
financial plan containing forecast income statements, sources and uses of
funds, and balance sheets for the next five years rolled forward each year.
An understanding was reached that ZPEPB will furnish to the Bank financial
projections for an additional three years subsequent to the above-mentioned
five-year period.
87.       The Zhejiang Provincial Audit Bureau (ZPAB) was established in
December 1983. Under the proposed project, ZPEPB's annual accounts will be
audited by ZPAB under the overall supervision of the State Audit Adminis-
tration (SAA). This arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances have been
obtained that ZPEPB will furnish annual financial statements, certified by an
acceptable auditor, to the Bank within six months after the end of each
financial year. Assurances have also been obtained that project accounts for
the ECEPA-implemented components would be similarly audited and provided to
the Bank.
Financial Position
88.       During the five-year period from 1980 through 1984, ZPEPB's sales
increased by about 55Z while revenues increased by about 68%. The operating
ratio has remained reasonably constant at about 82%. Duriog the period, ZPEPB
has realized an average rate of return of about 14% based on historically
valued net fixed assets in operation. ZPEPB's debt service coverage ratio has
remained satisfactory.
89.       During the period 1985-1992, ZPEPB is projected to maintain a high
growth rate. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 155Z over 1984
levels, representing a compound annual growth rate of about 11%. Net fixed
assets in operation are expected to increase by about 519% over current
levels, representing a compound annual rate of about 23%. If ZPEPB is to
maintain its financial viability in the face of this growth coupled with the
expected increases in coal prices to reach long-run marginal cost by 1990, it
will need to increase its average tariff from the current level of 7.4 fen/kWh



- 25 -
to 11.1 fen/kWh in 1991, an increase of about 5OZ. Assurances have been
obtained that ZPEPB will take measures, including but not limited to
increasing its tariffs, to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to
meet the aggregate of its total operating expenses and the amount by which its
financial obligations (interest to be charged to operations, debt service,
taxes, allocations to special funds, and other cash outflows) exceed
depreciation and other non-cash operating expenses. Compliance with this
agreement during the project period would imply that ZPEPB is realizing
satisfactory levels of financial performance, including: (a) average rates of
return of 8.1Z on historically valued net fixed assets in operation; and (b) a
self-financing ratio (defined as the sum of cash available for investment and
adjustment tax as a percentage of average capital expenditure) averaging about
8% annually.
90.       The Government's recent policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have a dramatic impact on ZPEPB
during the projection period. From a capital structure which is virtually
free of debt in 1984, ZPEPB is projected to move to a debt/equity ratio of
78/22 in 1992. Debt service is expected to increase by about 1,450X over 1984
levels. Debt service coverage is projected to drop from about 4 in 1984 to
about 1.2 in 1992, virtually exhausting all acceptable safety margins built
into operating revenues. Incurrence of debt at such a rate must be managed
carefully. Assurances have been obtained that ZPEPB may incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures indicates that
internal cash generation would at least exceed the projected debt service.
Benefits and Risks
91.       East China is one of the most important industrial areas in China,
accounting for about 25% of total national production. A shortage of electri-
city has been one of the major constraints to economic development. The net
loss of industrial production (after deducting inputs) is estimated at about
Y 1 for each kWh of electricity not served.
92.       In ZPEPB's service area, energy sales have been growing at an
average annual rate of about 12.8% from 1962 to 1984. Growth rates in peak
demand and energy generation over the past 15 years from 1970-84 averaged at
8.7% p.a. and 11.9% p.a., respectively. Of the 10,539 GWh total energy
consumption (including self-generation by captive plants) in 1984, 65% was
consumed by industrial users, 28% by agricultural users, and 7% by transporta-
tion, residential and commercial users. Based on a reasonable load projec-
tion, the peak demand and energy generation for ECEPA would increase from
9,400 MW and 68,000 GWh in 1984 to 18,500 MW and 124,000 GWh in 1992, which
represents average annual growth rates of 9.2% and 8.1%, respectively. Peak
demand and energy generation for ZPEPB would increase from 1,560 MW and 11,100
GWh to 3,755 MW and 25,000 GWh, respectively, growing at average annual rates
of 11.6% and 10.7%.
93.       ECEPA's optimized power development study (1986-1995) carried out by
the Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute (WREPERI)
with technical assistance from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
indicates that its generation program depends largely on the development of
coal-fired plants located at mine-mouth or near ports or load centers. The
proposed Beilungang thermal power plant with four units of 600 MW each to be



- 26 -
commissioned from 1990 to 1993 forms part of the system's least-cost expansion
program. A study made by ECEPA also demonstrates that the thermal power plant
is more economical than the alternative of bulk power transmission from a
mine-mouth thermal power station in Shanxi province.
94.       The economic rate of return of the project would be about 8.5Z
Capital and operating costs were shadow-priced. Benefits were calculated
using the projected tariffs by 1991, adjusted to the end-1985 price level of
about 8.6 fen/kWh.  This is a very conservative estimate.  As Beilungang is a
base-load plant and forms a part of the least-cost development program, it
means that the tariff level based on financial requirements is low compared
with the long-term incremental cost of electricity of the East China power
system which is estimated at about 11.3 fen/kWh. This will be addressed in
the tariff study to be included under the proposed project.
95.       There are no significant risks associated with the project.  Coal
supply and transportation have been assured by the Government. Procurement
will be carried out in nine well-grouped packages. A consulting engineer will
be used to assist in engineering and design, expediting and coordinating,
construction management, testing and commissioning. Equipment installation
will be carried out under the supervision of experienced engineers dispatched
by the respective manufacturers.
EnvironmentaL Considerations
96.       The design of the Beilungang steam power plant takes into account
the environmental impact of the operation of the plant. In particular, elec-
trostatic precipitators with a particulate removal efficiency of 98% or better
are provided to prevent ash and dust particles from polluting the environ-
ment. A stack height of 240 meters has been selected to ensure that the
ground level concentration of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides will not
exceed the limits laid down by the Chinese National Environmental Protection
Standards which are very close to Bank guidelines. The transmission facili-
ties will be designed and carried out in accordance with current technological
practices and will cause minimum disturbance to the environment. No safety
hazards are foreseen.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
97.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 6, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-27-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
CHINA. PEOPLf S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDtCATORS DATA SHELT
CHINA. POPLE'S REP. OF               RIEFERNCE GROUPS (UEIGHTEI AVERAGES) is
MOST                      tO0ST RECENIT ESTtMATE) lb
196db  lqCL/bRECENT  /bLOS INCOME                        MIDDLE IN-comE
zer196D     196  ESTIMJTC1            ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA 4 PACIFIC
ARIA (THOSANDa sq. a)
TOTAL                              95bl.0      956l.0      95b1.0
AGRCItLTUItAL                      3257.6      3882.0      3865.9
G-  PBS CwAI  (m6)                       ..           ..       300.0              2178.3                    1011.1
1XSCW  COPURNWT&Ilr Pim CTIT&
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)       202.0       259.0       441.9               285.7                     566.8
Pa11.ATla Am VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  oSIDOO.0   815160.0  101910z.n
Ut&BM POPULATION (C  ur TOTAL)       19.6 Jc      ..         21.0                22.3                      35.9
OPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (CILL)                           1242.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                             1571.0
POPULATION  WIOENTUT                                        1.6
POPULATION DENSITY
FER SQ. Km.                        66.1        15.3       106.2               173.6                     396.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            199.6        210.0      260.8               353.3                    1591.2
POPULATIONl AGE STRUOCURE (t)
0-1; YRS                          38.9        37.6        32.0                36.3                      38.2
15-64 YRS                          56.2        57.2        63.1               59.4                       57.7
65 AND ABOVE                        4.7         5.0         5.0                 *.3                       3.5
POPULATION CRONTH RATE ( )
TOTAL                               1.1         2.2          1.7                2.0                       2.3
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                  4.I                       4.1
CRUDE BIIRTH RATE IPER THOUS)        39.2 /d     35.7        18.6                27.5                      30.3
CRUOE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         23.5 /d      8.8          7.1               10.2                       9.4
CROSS REPROOICTXON RATE               2.8 Id      2.3          1.0                1.7                       1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. A.NNUAL (TMHS)           ..
USERS (2 OF MARRItED WOMEN)         ..          ..         71.0                5O.4                      56.S
FOOD an UFRITICO
INDEX OF FOO PROD. PER CAPITA
(19609-71-100)                        ..        100.0       123.0               1I3.6                     124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REqUIRLETS)         94.6  d    10.6        119.8               1'6.3                     115.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           53.0 Id     5R.2        69.7                61.1                      60.3
OF  HLICH ANIHAL AND PULSE        IZ.5 7W     13.3        15.9                1:.'                      14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          13.5         S.S         2.0                 7.3                       7.2
RF.LTH
LIFE FXPECT. AT BIRrH (YEARS)        .1.0 le    60.9         b7.1               60.5                       oO.6
INFA.NT MUKT. RATE tPER TIOWS)      165.0 !d    b9.0         38.0               6q.                        64.8
ACCESS TO SAFT WATER *tPOP)
TOTAL                               .. ..                  20.9              .                             /)
"aseS                               ..4         ..         8S.07.2                                       57.7)
RURAL                               .           ..         _o.n                1-t                       17.1
ACCESS T1 EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..                  '.8                      50.1
URBAN                               ..          ..          ..                 28.8                      5:.9
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..                  5.5                      4-.'
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            q9&n.o /f  3690.0 If   1740.0 !f           3118.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            3830.0      2760.0      1730.0             -690.7                     24D24.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1040.0       760.0       440.0              1039.2                    1112.1
URBAN                             210.0         ..        160.0               299.1                     651.4
RURAL                           10140.0         ..       1020.0             6028.2                     2596.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..          ..                 52.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..         5.1
URIAN                               ..           ...1
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIR.NI0
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URAN"                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLI rS .ITH ELFCT.
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



-28-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
nst         197R 1! or                  wR rice               cuiO Nvss) is
,   ,   UC               ~~~~~~~LOW IllaNIE     l/aDDLC r1icom
1,160      197oct- smeunhiai-        ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA A PAcinc
- U
ADJUIID IEEOLLNENRAI 3*1
namvas  hOTAL                     109.0       110.0       110.0                92.6                     100.7
NIU                      ..          *-        123.0              105.3                      104.4
FLMS                     * .                    97.0                79.3                      97.2
O3EIIDAAVu TOTAL                   21.0        23.0        35.0                31.3                      47.1
HALE                     ..          ..         46.0                40.                       50.6
FMLU                     .           *.         25.0                21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONAL CE oF 3o T)                ..          ..          2.2                 3.2                      16.4
EInUS                               ..         33.0        25.0                38.0                      30.4
RCOUIDAN                            ..         22.0        16.0                17.4                      22.2
PASSEOEU  CfS/TUAW        P           ..          ..          0.2 1h              0.9                      10.1
unxo uzavmsfho           P             ..        14.7       210.1               129J                      172.9
nV  zmzvguincauu Mr                               0.6        35.3                19.8                      58.5
NVpWEI ("DIY  cEnA
DWiut    ) CIRCunoLA
P   TOAD POPULATION                  ..          ..         33.4                25.7                      65.3
CVNEMA SAAL ATT       C/CA            ..          ..          ..                  6.0                       3.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (CT00)         321646.0   380555.0   470692.0
FZKALE (PERCENT)                   38.3        38.0        37.3                33.2                      33.6
ARIkCUL:TU  (PERCENT)               ..          ..         63.9                69.6                      52.2
INDUSTRY (1U3CD)                    ..          ..         18.7                15.3                      17.9
PATCIPATIOM        (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              46.6        45.0         U.1                41.9                      33.9
MALE                               55.9        54.3        35.4                 3.6                      30.8
13015                              37.0        35.0        35.1                29.1                      26.3
ECOOMC D      EOmOCT RATio            0.9          1.0        0.6                 1.0                        1.1
- -   C
PERCEN  01 PRVATE INCO
RECEIVED Sif
1G15  sI o       s     s            ..          ..         12.5 
SrIS  200S oF WSaO                  ..          ..         39.3                 ..                       48.0
LOUI  20  oF 3SHOLDS                ..          ..          6.3                 ..                        6.4
LOS   40       Ous L                ..          ..         18.4                 ..                       15.5
UToum AMan iOWan INCG
LEV   CUSS PER CATA)
VRAM                                ..          ..          ..                133.9
WEAL                                ..          ..          ..111.6                                    151.9
ESTXIED  ELATIVI FOVEY  INCU1
LEVL CUSS PE CAITA)
A N.                                            .           .                   .                       177.9
RUEAL                                .           .          .                  61.7                     164.7
ESTIVATED POP. EELOV AS301023
POVEA?! lNCOII LgVEL (I)
URN"S                               ..           .          ..                43.3                       23.5
WIEL                                ..          ..          ..                 51.7                      37.8
NOT AVALASE
NOT APPLICAEL
N O S 9 s
Ia   The grouP avraig for each Indicator are popolatioe-wigbted arithmtic geae.  Covaraga of countrime
_m  tbs iudictces 4depends on availabillty of data and Ia not uniform.
lb   Unlear otbhzvLae noted. 'Data for 1960" refr to ay yer betas 1939 and 1961; "Data for 1970" bet
1969 and 1971; and data for "Maet Ret   Etlmtt  beteen 1931 and 1933.
/c   1964;  /d 195545  arsg;  /I  1955-64 averag; if Senlor doctor of western medicine; ft Distribution
of peopfl rnleod by holueboli per capita income1979 data, fl 1930.
JUNE, 1935



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 7
DEPMNINiS OF SOCAL 1NE1CATOIS              he
Nola: Akbaugh the 4ds an dmwe f1rao ru e pwmrayjudpd te mat utoetattevg and raible. it rbold also aw _  thU tky ny not bL mir ll
coompmeble bus. of thelak of tandudaad dddilo. d aegis .d  by duffais eounw. in colatug i. duta. The alsas. nottherl. useful to
d.cube ord.n of  aitude ieitte atr nd da     . urtlai major dau   btwm  satna.
Te mreem  group are (1 I the am county groW  of ihe aub)t cot"  s. d) (   couny gap wth somewhtiger average ii ume Ibn theL cility
voup of thesebjeat etry (s_p for iHigh lacomeOd Eaponetegroup whemMlMidl. enmr Notnh Atrts sa Middle Est" it chosn lhuse of firornsef
socaa.cultural albitus). I. theub. n r goup dom the a*erag   popultin wagd anie mam for _gh ndictor snd hownl only what majurity
ofdi crounua ina poup a dams for thal imidao. Sia  the coverage orcoutatnas meog t. Indltordupnda - the avaiability ofdata and is nol unilona.
suon must be eserd is ruti awrap ofoem indicator to snotr. Ta *vea asa oe only usiul in conpring the value orone indicr atea i ume among
the eatry and ru  vgoup.
AREA (thousnd sq.km.)                                            C.alriB  Rae {o(petM asmd - Number orlive binhs in the year
ToraI-Toal surface area cmpnsing Land area and inland wters;     per lhouaad of mid-year population 196U. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970and 1993 data.                                         CraeDeuRha  (perthe d)- Numberofdeathsintheyear
4gri eub  l-Estimate of agricultural are  used temporarily or    per thougand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
permanently for crops, pasures, market and kitchen grdens or to  Gros Repeedwct  Rae-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1912 data,                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present ag-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-ONP per capita estimnates at curremn        in 1960. 1970. and 1913.
market prices. calculsted by same conversion method as   rd/d    Femie, Pi4sodv-Accepsers. Anad frthiassndsj  %nnual nusis
Bank Atlas i 198 1 -113 basis). 1983 data.                       berof acceptors of birth-control devier under suspm'.. l tfnattonal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy Icoal and lignite.      F y Pmin-fse m(perent ef mwrkW   ws)  The pen en
petroleum. natural gas and hydro- nuclear and geotherm  cldec-   tage of married womenorchild-bearing age whohSac pi Acticinp nir
tricatyl in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practing any form ofsntrra cptior. Wonier
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age arem  nerlly women aged 1549. alihough for
some countries contraceptive usage as mejcured IoI sthle  A.e
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
T.alhPpuisbm. MU-rew (thf -aslj-As or July ; 1960. 1970.         FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 19S3 data.
Uplisi P_ _aborbo (percw of raraiji- Ratio of urban to toal      lnkz.fFo.Prducdon 5rapita (p969,.?,  1 l  Indc' if pci
pourbain tdbiffc(rertceiintsofutotala)-   my  eaonpi-            capita annual production of' all food comntimditue  Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-lexcludes animal feed and speed fur atitulture. loud cmmondities
ability of data amnong countris; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.      include primary commodities teg sugarcane instead tif supar
Apuaion Ptijecno                                                 which are edible and contain nutrientis ieg .oltec and lea arc
Popudation in year 200-The projection of population for 20tl     excluded)l they comprise cals root crops. pulse. oil sceds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables fruits, nuts. sugprcane and supr beets. liestock, and
total population by ae and sex fertility rates, mortality raes, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is hased
international migration in the bae year 1980. these parmmeters   on national aveage producer prie weighis; 1461-65. l1tt1. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the bais of generalized  1932 data.
assumptions until the population becme staionary.                Per CprS Sappi of Ca iris fpercenrofeqdernsr         Comput-
S:aoerta y popdaioli-l a one in wbich age- and sx-pecific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net foo supplies d vailable in coun tr
taliiy rates have not changed over a long period, while age-pecific  per capita per day. Available supplies coi prais domestic produr-
fertility rates have simuitaneously remained ai repacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- I). In sucl a populatn. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food proceing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs fair norrnal actist i
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, bxoy weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertihty  age and sex distribution of population, and allowtng It1 perceni for
rate to replacement levde                                         waste at household level: 1961. 19701 and IY12 data
Populatian Muanrnon-ls the tendency for population growlh to     her Cpita Slpppy ofNhtels tgrams per dayJ  l'roteiaa snSent .It
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per cailta nct suppl) of food per day Nel supply.   s d i. ditrincl
achteved: that is. even after the riet reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements lor all countries esltbli4hed hb  t %l)%
unity. The momentum ofa population in the year is mcasured as    provide for mitimum  allowancc of hU grants tf StiltS Pi.scn r-e
a ratio of the ultimate stationrry population to the population in  dav and 2U1 yrants of animal and pulse protoni.   v-which ItS gfina-
the year :. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be antmal protein. Thes standards are 1ov cr tlt.n those ol
nent level from year t onward. 1915 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams (f animal proittn as an
_dpve-sw Deinisy                                                 average for the world. proposed b) FAO in the Third W,m IJ I    !
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply: 191. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.                  hr Capita hotew   Spply Fpn Anira an PWsir-s- Prt on %upply
Per sqAmn agriw-lduravlnd-.Computed as above for agricultural    offood derived from animals and pulve in grams perda,s. lHl oS.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1912 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Populatin Age Sar (percent)-- Children (0-14 yearsl. work.       ChWraU(esJI4DnWthRattPerfarsmndi  Ntatnlwr.dJ.tin.
ing age l(15-4 years) nd retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 vears per thnusnd childrelk in the arrme agc
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. nd 1983 data.                group in a pgen vear. For most dcLeloptng eotutntrc. dti.t Jen' ci!
Pepatia. Grhw Rae (pfees-4total-Annual growth rates of           from lire tabe: 190. 1970 and 193 dat
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEAULH
P1option GrCth Raer (percent)-rn- Annual growth rates            Lt Expetay or Birt (yews)  Number of vears a newborn
of urban population ror 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if presailing patterns of mosrtaii iAr alt peouvir



- 30 -                                                 Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the time or or iu birth were to stay the eme throughout its lire.;  Pupdreacher Ratio - prhnaryr sad srra_thry-Total studentm en-
1960. 1970 and 1913 data,                                       rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
xib  Munwhy Rat (per atht sandj-Number of infants who die       teachers in the corrsponding levels.
before reaching ows year ofage per thousand live binhs in a given
year; 1960, 1970 amd 1933 datn.                                 CONSUMPTION
Aecn  o So    Nbsr  (recs tof  j IUhof4dhUl. Mr, ad dA_a_e Cur (per thousand popnlourfj- -Pssengel "tn coim
rmwl-Number of people (total, urban, and rurld) with reasonable  prise motor cars sting kls than eight persons; excludeb Anibul-
acoa  to use water supply (includes treated sturet watetr or    ances, hearms and military vehicles.
untrented but uncontaminated water such - that from protected   Redo Rewers (per thousand populatioi-All types of receivers
boeoes spnnpand aunitary wells) as percentags of their rfepe-   ror radio broadcast to general public per thousand of population;
bve populations. In an urban area a public fountain or sandpost  excludes un-licensd receivers in countries and in years when
blcted not more than 200 meter from a house may be considered   mgiserunion   ed                rece. t years nay
as being within reasonable acess of that house. In rural areas  registatin o  rioet  ast intels                        may
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the  not be comlurable since most countres sholished icensing
houselbold do not have to spends disproportionate part of the day  TVRecebet (per hosadpepularn) - TV receiver for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                           to general public per thousand population; exdudes unlicensed TV
receDver in countfies and in years when regsiration of IV sets was
Access te Excreta Thaposa (peren of popularln.-batal. wbm       in effect.
and rral-Number or people (total. urban, and rural) served by
exereta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.    qper CU'CUStlOi  (per them-sdpop-  inr   Slihowstheavel-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper.' dehntl ats a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   penodical publication devoted primarily to recording pencral news
borne systems or the use of nt privies and similar installations  It as considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four time a week
Populaoin per Ptyskiim--Population divided bv number of prac-   CiNAU  Anal Antr.de  per Cata per Yew- Blind on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Poupution per Nursing Person- Ppulation divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nures.
practical nurs"s and nursing auxilianes.                        LABOR FORCE
Poplatin per HospiRal Bed--eal, rho, and  rwa-Population         Total LAbor Force (thousands)-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural; divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private. general and specialized  students. etc. covering population nr all ages. Definitian% in
hospitals and rehabilation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable. 1960. 1970 ard 19b3 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physiian. Establishments prov-  hiedu fpereerv-Fermale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding pnncipally custodial care are not included Rural hospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrculrar (pereer---Laohr farce in larmminy. iore ti% h.mntir.
by a physician (but by a medial assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.;  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960, 19Y7 and l1tU
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  da ta.
or medical facilities.                                          lndestry (perret)--Labor force in miniiag consirtiimi.. ,a.
Ad..asien per Hospisal Brd-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricty water and gar as percentagc of mt,tl Ldabr
discharges from hospitals divided by ihe number of beds.        force: 19Y. 1970 and 190 data.
Partici.-aion Rare (percent -4oral. _r., adjfianiaf-Frticipatron
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as total. nale. and fernale Lhair (nra'
Average Sz of Houseold (peros per household --ral. wrbho        as percentages of total mnale and fen sia  populattoti o' dal aps
adrval--A household consists ofa group ofindividuals whoshare   respectively: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their man nmeals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes   long time trend. A fev estimates are from national %ounfr
Averawe Namber of Persons per Room-neal, ara,. and rual         Econanuc Dcpendeny Rat  -Rtuo ol population under   and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population tshose aged Is-rAi
occupied conventional dwellings. respectivelv. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pans.                   INCOME DISTRISBJ1TION
Percetage of Dwllings with Elektricitty-4toal, rho, ad rwral    Percntae of T-os Dspo-sablr lncm   (bowh in tush ad Lint)
Conventional dwellings with eletricity in living quartersas percen-  Accruing to percentile groups ofhouseholds ranked by total house
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respectively,          hold income
EDtUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROU'PS
Adussed Envlhenr Ratios                                         The following estimates arc vern Approxinate mcasure' It pa".etiS
Phnatn srhool - rtoal, male and female -Cross total, male and   levels, and should he interpreted with considerahle caultion
female enrollment of all ages at the pnmary level as percentagc. or  Erimaed Absolte PDverty Ineo   Level t 1'.S per cajitot-- urban
respective pnmary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rnual - Absolute poveny income level is that income kleel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nuintionall) adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praciwes in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordAble
are reflcted in the ratios given For some countries with universal  Esrtimated Relative Povrr lncoew Level (ISS per crera--arban
education, gross enrollment rmay exceed 1W  percent simce some  ad nrua  -Rural relative poverty inrw,me level i% sane-third 1l
pupil' arc below or above the countrys standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the countr) UIrban level is
age.                                                            derived rrom the rural lte%l with adjustment fior higher ." 11
S&-ronsari school  ton.tal, male and frmalr -Computed as above.  living in urban areas
secondarv education requires at least four vears of approved pn-  Etimated Poputio  Below Assolae PovrtWr Incom  Leret (per-
mary instruction; provides gneral. vocational, or teacher training  cenr-urhan and rara- Pftrcent of popiulation turhan and -ural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor
ence counws are generally excludcd
£uamnal Enrolmentrpler.enit 01of weoandkra--Vocatis.n;al Istitlu-          Comparative Ara1%.ss ardn1d  ta Dii son
tions include technical industrial, or other programs which operate     Ectinomic Analys i. and Projections Department
indepedently or as departments of secondary institutions                                 June I9W



- 31 -                                                 Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Populatton         1.Ot9 millIon (mid-1913)
GN7 per capital S300 (1983)
CHI?IA - ECONOHtC IzDtCADORS
Aount - 195'                                  Annual growth racee (t)
(million US5 at                   Actual                                           Pro1eceed
Indceator                      current pricnm)/b iJS8    1986   1962   1983   1984"a    1985          1966      1967      1966      1969      L990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /a
Groea dom_stLc producr            281.260         6.6    4.9    7.8    9.6   14.0         10.4       6.8       6.6        6.6      6.6       6.8
Agriculture                     100.430       -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9           6.0       4.9       4.9        4.9      4.9       4.9
Induecry                        125.010        12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6         14.0       7.7       7.7        7.7      7.7       7.7
Servtces                         55,820        8.2    6.9    3.3    6.5    7.7          10.0       7.9       7.9        7.9      7.9       7.9
Coneuuption                       198.190         9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5         12.5       8.9       7.4        7.4      7.4       7.1
Crown tovestaeut                   83,100         1.3   -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7         11.0       2.3       4.8        4.6      5.1       5.7
Exporte of GNTS /a                 26.720        17.6   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0          ;.0       8.9       8.8        8.8      8.8       8.6
imports of cNFS 7i                 26,750        16.1   -6.7   -5.7   28.1   25.9         43.1       0.0       5.8        5.9      6.0       5.2
Gross national savings             65.870        -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0          5.0       2.4       5.1        5.1      5.6       6.2
PRICES
CDP deflator (1980 - 100)                       100.0  101.6  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1         118.7    124.7      131.0    137.5    144.4
Exchange rcte (Yuan/USS)                         1.50   1.70   1.89   1.96   2.32         2.84      2.84      2.84      2.84      2.84      2.14
Share of GOP ac merket prtces t)                       Averago annual increase (:)
(at current prces)                               (at constant 1961 prtcee)
1960     1970   1975   1960   1995   1990         1960-70  1970-75  1975-60  1980-44  1984-89  199-9
Gross dousuttc product /a         100.0  100.0  lOO.0  100.0  100.0  100.0              6.1       5.2       6.6       9.0       7.3       4.6
Agriculture                      23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   34.2   31.3             6.7        3.4      3.3      10.1       5.0       4.8
Industry                         48.0   41.0   45.8   48.0   47.9   49.9             7.8        7.5      9.9       9.4       8.6       7.4
Services                         29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   17.9   18.6             3.4       4.5       5.4       6.6       8.2       7.5
Consumption                        62.4   70.8   69.1   71.3   66.7   69.3              6.1       4.7       S.4       8.1       8.4       6.8
Gross investment                   37.8   29.2   31.1   10.0   34.4   30.9             9.5        6.9       9.7      11.1       5.1       6.1
Exports of GNFS                     4.8    2.8    5.3        .1    7.7    8.5         -1.5       10.8       5.7      12.3       8.0       7.7
tIports of GNFS                     5.0    2.7    5.5    6.4    8.8    8.6              1.2      13.9      13.0     12.2        8.4       7.4
Gross national savings             37.7   29.2   30.9   29.9   33.6   30.7              0.1       6.7       7.2      14.0       4.8       4.2
A,1  : -if GDP
L957            1970             ;jBO             1983            1984
P11BLIC FINfANCE
Current revenues                                        28.7             29.6             30.S             27.8            26.7
Current expenditures                                    15.1             15.7             21.1             21.6            20.1
Surplus (+) or deficiz  --)                             L3.6            .43.9              7.5            -6.2              6.6
Capital expenditcure                                    13.7             13.3             11.1              7.8             8.2
Foreign financing                                        0.7              n.a.             0.5             n.2              0.3
1960-70      1970-75      1975-R0       1980-94      1984-49      :989-94
OTHER INOICATORS
GNP growth race ([)                                     6.1           S.1          -.4            9.2         7.2          ,r
CNP per capita growth rate (t)                          3.5           2.9          5.2            7.9         S.1          5.5
Energy conslmptLon growth race (2)                     -0.3          9.2           5.8            '.1         5.3          4.8
ICOt                                                    5.3          4.7           5.1           1.8          4.0          4.6
'arginal savings rate                                   0.4          0.4           0.3            0.3         0.2          0.3
Import elsticeity                                       0.2          2.7           2.0            1.4         1.1          1.2
/a Daca for 1981 and 1982 are from differenc sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East AsLa and Pacific Regional Office
February 7. 1985



- 32-                                                    ANNEX I
Population        1.019 million (uld-1983)                                                                           Page  6  of 7
Gil per capitas  5300 (1983)
CH NA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount - 1984                  Annual grow,h raten  (2) (at conitant prices)
(million USS at                           Actual                           Projecd
current prices)         1960      1981      19Z2     1963      1984      198S     1990
EXTEWAL TEAM to
HerchandIse e*ports                        25,020               14.8      17.3      5.5      10.1      10.4      2.8       8.7
Ptinrr                                   11.4L0                1.3     -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6       3.3      6.8
Kanufactures                             13,610               32.2     36.2       6.6       7.0     11.1       2.4      10.4
hnrchsndise Importe                        26,740                6.8       7.2      0.2      29.7     22.3      47.1       6.2
Food                                      2,330                9.1     66.3      42.9    -30.9    -24.9       14.4       7.1
fetrolem                                     130              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.8       0.0     35.5
!achinsry and equipment                   8.420               16.4      19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3      58.2       5.1
Others                                   15,860                0.9    -13.5       7.1      71.7      16.8     19.9       6.3
PRlCKS
Export price index (1960-100)                                  100.0    102.7      98.7      88.8     90.5      88.0    126.0
Isport prLce indez (1980-100)                                  L00.0    104.5      89.2     76.7      78.4      77.3    112.0
Terms of erade index (L980-100)                                100.0     98.3    11Q.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Composition of merchandise crads (2)                    Average annual incrcne (a   )
(at current pricee)                                Cat coneeac ntrices)
1978        1981         1984        1990       1980-84            1984-89             1989-94
Export.                          100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0        10.8                7.9                  7.6
Prim_ry                         53.4        46.6         45.6        42.1         6.7                6.4                 6.1
Nanafactures                    46.6         53.4        54.4        57.9        15.2                9.4                  8.2
Imports                          100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0        14.9                8.5                  7.5
Food                            12.8        17.4          8.7         9.7        13.9                8.9                 8.5
fetroleum                        0.5         0.4          0.5         0.9        13.0               17.2                 16.1
%achinery and equipment         18.9         29.2        31.5        33.3        23.6               12.0                  6.8
Others                          67.9        53.0         59.3        56.1        20.5                6.7                 7.5
Share of trade with          Share of crade vith          Share of trade with
industrial                   developing                 the USSR and
countries (2)                countries (:)            Eascern Europe (S)
1977     1980      1983     1977      1980      1983     1977      1980      1983
DIRECrTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     36.4      44.7      42.1     46.8      48.7     53.2      16.8       6.6      4.7
Imports                                     63.1      73.6     69.0      20.7      19.7     24.5      16.2       6.7      6.5
/a Based on customs statietics. Exports, f.o.b., Imports, c.i.f.
East Asia and P&cific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



ANNEX I
- 33                      ~                    Page 7 of 7
Population        1,019 million Cmid-1983)
CGP per capita:  5300 (1953)
CNN  - sALANC! or PFAweNS. zXTEXKAL CAPITAL AMD DEBT
(Millions of USS at current prices)
Ac tual                                    ro10ece d
Tndicacor                                      1978    1979    1980    1981         1982       1983      1984                  L990
BAIAUCE OF PAYMCNS
Zxporcs of good. *nd nonfaccor services  10,370  14.983  20,32k  24,423    23.637    23,186    26,716             26,840   58,590
Of which:  H rchandite f.o.b. /a           9.607  13,658  15.492  22,027    21.125    20.707    23,905          23.900   52,130
Imports of good. and nonfactor services  11,668  17.759  24,058  23.446    18.900    20,711    26.748             38.290   63.150
Of which:  Mrchandios  f.o.b. /a          10.745  16.212  22.049  21.047    16,876    18,717    23,690          35.150   56,950
Net factor income from abroad                   -8      -77    -117    -200         452      1,253     1,620       1.1t40     -850
Net transfers                                  597      656     640      466        530       436        306         300       300
Current account balance                       -709  -2.197  -3,Z11   1,241        5,719     4,164      1,892    -10,010   -5,140
Private direct lnvestmetn (not)                  -        -      57      265        430       636      1,100       1.650    1,950
OffEcial grant aid (nat)                         -        -      21      156        -74 75               137         140       140
MLT loans (net)                                549   3.815   1.069       310        301      _927       -145           0    6,450
Disburme nto                                 549   3.895   1.670   1.659        2.481     i.600        718         950    6.390
Amortitation                                   -       80     601   1.348       2.180       673        863         950    1,940
Other capital /b                              -628  -1,021   2.455       -47       -115    -1.672    -2,859        2.330         -
Chaang La resrves
("-" indlcacing Increase)                    788    -597    -391  -1,925    -6.291    -4.130           -95       5,890   -1,400
Internattonal re-erv.e                       6.677   7.274   7.665   9,590    15.881    20#011    20.106          14.220   23.500
Of wbich:  Gold Ic                         5,120   5.120   5.120   5,120        5,120     5.120      5.120       5.120    5.120
R oervee as  onthu of imporco                  6.2     4.5      3.5      4.8       10.1      11.7        9.1         4.5       4.2
EX5CRNAL CAPITAL ALID DEBT /d
Gross diabursement                                                        ..
Official grants                                         .       .        .                              ..
Conc ssmonal lo I.                                              .
DAC
IDA
Other
No-conces-aonal toans
Official export credits
IURD
Ocher multilateral
Privace                                     ..      ..       ..       ..        ..
External debt
Debt oucstanding and disbursed               549   4.364   5,433   5,261       5.562      6.397      6,3.0
Official                                    .       .         .       ..
Private                                     ..      ..       ..       ..         .
Undisbursed debt
Debt service
Total service payments
laterest                                    ..      ..       ..      ..
Payr ents as s of exports                    0.4     2.7      6.3     9.0       11.4        4.9        5.0
kverage Interest wate of new loans (:)           -       -        -        -          -         -          -
Averge  meturiry of new loans (years)            -        -       -        -          -         -          -
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1952-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
/b Includes net use of IMF credit and net flow of short-term capital.
7;' Valued at USS402/troy ounce.
7i Exclude. short-term loans (one year or lees).
Easet Aia and Pacific Regional Office
Novenber 22, 1985



-  34 -                                                 ANNEX IT
STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONs IN THE PFOPLE'S RE1PIJLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 19H6)
Loan or                                                                                       11S5 million
Credit                                                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower                        Purpose                              Rank      IDA    Undisbursed/
2fl21/1167    1981  People's Republic of Chtna  University Development                  I 100 n    1o0         10.5
1261    1982  People's Republic of China  North Chtna Plain Agriculture               -      6n.0        15.2
2207    1982  People's Republic of China  Three Porte                               69.n       -         21.9
1297    19R2  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education A Research                 -      75.4        17.9
2226/1313    1982  People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                         40.6      30.n        26.5
2231    1983  People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleu                          162.4       -         67.8
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zbongyuan-Wenlin Petroleum              100.8        -         66.2
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of China  Heilongiiang Land Reclamation             25.3      45.n        18.4
1411    19R3  People's Republic of China  PolytechniecTV Univereity                   -      85.0        45.1
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperstlon                       -      10.0         4.7
1417    1984  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                         -      10n0n        54.R
2382    1984  People's Republic of Chins  Lubuge Hydroelectric                     145S4       -        114.1
2194    1984  People's Republic of China  Railway                                  22n.n       -        117.n
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                               -       5n0o        33.1
1472    1994  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.                -      85.0        55.n
2426    1984  People's Republic of China  Karrnsy Petroleum                         99.5       -         77.7
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit                 ln5.n      7n0n       111.1
2444/1500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education             45.3      21.5        35.7
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research                -      25.0        Z5.4
1551    1985  People's Republic of China  Second University Development               -     145.n       159.7
2693    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                             117.n       -        111.1
2501    1985  People's Republic of China  Chsnagcun (Lunn) Coal Mining             126.n       -        123.4
1557    1985  People's Republic of China  Ceeds                                      -       40.n        43.0
1578    1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                          -      8n.0        90.2
2539/1594    1985  Ueople's Republic of China  Niqhway                                   42.6      3n0.        65.R
2540    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Rativay                           235.0       -        235.0
2541    1985  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation and             97.0       -         96.5
Energy Scving
1605    1985  People's Pepublic of China  Forestry Development                        -      47.1        49.1
2579/1606    1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0             75.0        98.5
2580    1985  People's Republic of China  Welyuan Cas Field Technical               25.0       -         25.n
Assistar.ce
1642/b  1986  People's Republic of Chins  Second Rural Credit                         -      90.0        9n0n
2659/11%37   1986  People's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit                   75.0      25.0       1on0.
16647h  1986  People's Republic of China  Second Technteal Cooperation               -       2n.0        20.n
16717b6  1986  People's Republic of China  Provincial lniversities                   -      120.0       12n.0
Total                                                                                 1,847.9  1.431.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        1.R47.9  1,431.2
Total Undishursed                                                                     1,317.8  1 ,nl9.      2,357.6
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 19R6)
Amount in US$ million
Year    Obligor                                       Tvpe of business                 Loan      Equity      Total
1985    Cuangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.          Automobile                         15.n       2.n        17.n
Total Gross Com-mtments                                                                  15.0       2.0       1ItS
Less cancellations, terminations.
repayment and sales
Total Coiitments now held bv IFC                                                         15.0       2.0        17.n
Total tlndisbursed                                                                       15.0       2.0        17.0
/a  As credits are denominated in SERs (since IDA Replenishment VI), undisburted SDB credit balances are con-
verted Lo dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR.  In some cases, therefore,
the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principsl credit amount
expressed in dollars.
lb Not yet effective.
Note:  The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/r nA financial
projects in execution, which Is updated twice yearly aiT circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
BEILUNGANC THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:    5 years
(b)  The project was prepared by:                       ZPEPB and ECEPDI
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:            September 1984
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project:   March 1985
(e)  Appraisal mission:                                 June 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                        April 1986
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness:                         September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) ZPEPB and the Government would carry out a training in accordance
with a program acceptable to the Bank (para. 76);
(b) MWREP would carry out a tariff study in accordance with a work
program acceptable to the Bank (para. 77);
(c) ZPEPB would institute and furnish to the Bank a five-year financing
plan, rolled forward each year (para. 86);
(d) ZPEPB wouli submit its annual financial statements, certified by an
acceptable auditor to the Bank within six months after the end of
each financial year and that the project accounts for the ECEPA-
implemented components would be similarly audited and provided to
the Bank (para. 87);
(e) ZPEPB would take measures, including but not limited to increasing
its tariffs, to ensure that operating revenues are sufficient to
meet the aggregate of its total operating expenses and the amount by
which its financial obligations (interest to be charged to opera-
tions, debt service, taxes, allocations to special funds, and other
cash outflows) exceed depreciation and other non-cash operating
expenses (para. 89); and



- 36 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
(f) ZPEPB would incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of
its revenues and ezpenditures indicates that internal cash gener-
ation would at least exceed the projected debt service (para. 90).



_ _  ,       -  ,             . --   ,                 .                  .                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 19176
1|7      118-                 119-_2             120                121                122-               123'
SN.     H A N D O N G   -                                                                     CIA3
9s'  r._./                t>_t                      ~~BEILUNGANG THERMAL POWER PROJECT
S.',;^4 }t¢- =:4   LlfZlltUngO|O    <t                    ~~~~~EXISlINO CQVgv         P C    O01rXOPEC
¢ g^l1F      SruHouNo I, fjooSw                             4>                                  _-           50xV Transmission Line
'i  ', o\@  ,;,),^ M>Pl  '                e                     v         ^     *      S~~~~~A    5OOV Substolions
/UA/Ft  *      g '                      ~~~~~       ~     ~     ~~XIAHAI  l      O*                    Th-rmal Power Plants
f70 UJ-'':.\ ,   Wo \v  Hydro Power Plants 34
340*,,8    ......... _  ... ;\  Nuclear Power Plont
|   L.  _          . -  Ou~~~~~~                   ~~nocng I 
|  /  ,^t    -<,^,f1,.:18!.N' ' ,;:' l.,.:   9'                      -  ~~~~~~~~Rivers
I  I  1,,;       ' \        \                  J                 -@-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ProvlncnSeund rln
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5;'                                                        10oir  1      10
33-; ,|!   ,;__-x8 8  S              >    J i A  N  G  S U                                KIbEES3
M.2,os "'.IVr%  Bengbu    .rl<      
), Wv'; st              -  ~ ''' SlV)t 
i.   ~   <   wAS3>a wf*> t4Do t+                             |             >  ,  : : c  w
ti AN  H  U  I            e,    .   ot St                                __   133 -*-V-Ot W)<-    c                           3
32-                                 Ncnrg                                                                                            32 /%sw      *N   - _  
>  ]/  /  ,          1    ., r       . ^,wsov r~   )             .  HANGHAI
<_>~~,~ ;-o ]                     _        t   0    'Suzhou        (        vN SH  OMW
- e-  r- <X t1; _v4Z - o .% H,                 .:                    I)UN 350 A/lWo3
An|Q ... o   :                   CHEIVU            R|-
_aD.                                                                                          f2 P^W                                  30 t } -1-ZH1A Z0 
& \ - - / <-> , _ >~~~~~~~~UCHU1VJ1A NG                                                    f ntim Yefy 24)I
_< ,-;Q_ Y-_X2i f2972 Mw/
S    .       {ddZ(66 5 MtW//
C   -                - ~~~~Z  H  E  J  I A  N    G-: -
J~~~~~~~~~~~~UAGAv0 I~:~ AZO N25 G                                                                    WI I    iv;.  
l   -HUNAWNSH  .   EI t
28'                                                          >           Wenzhoug~~-                                          ,- ~,
z    <  ~F U J I A N < x-    ,
117- .-   llo'               t~~~~119'             120-                 121-                122-                 123-
AUGUST 1985






