                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 30981-RU

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28314)

                                                  ON A

                                                 GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.2 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                                   FOR

      RUSSIA OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASEOUT PROJECT




                                             December, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 20, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Ruble
                                   1 Ruble = US$ 0.035
                                     US$ 1 = 27.8821 Rubles

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CE    Cost Effectiveness
CFC   Chloro-Fluoro Carbon
CPPI  Center for Preparation and Implementation of International Projects on Technical
      Assistance (originally Center for Project Preparation and Implementation)
CAS   World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CEIT  Countries with Economies in Transition
EBRD  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP   Environmental Management Project
FSU   Former Soviet Union
GEF   Global Environmental Facility
GOR   Government of Russia
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IAC   Inter-agency Commission for Ozone Layer Protection
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IS    International Shopping
MEPNR Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the Russian Federation
MNR   (RF)
MOEDT Ministry of Natural Resources of the RF
MOF   Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the RF
MP    Ministry of Finance of the RF
MPMF  Montreal Protocol
MT    Montreal Protocol Multi-Lateral Fund
ODP   Metric Ton
ODS   Ozone Depleting Potential
OORG  Ozone Depleting Substances
PIU   Ozone Operations Resource Group
QAG   Project Implementation Unit
RF    Quality Assurance Group
SAR   Russian Federation
SB    Staff Appraisal Report
SCEP  Supervisory Board
STAP  State Committee for Environmental Protection of the RF
TA    Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel

US TDA Technical Assistance
WP     United States Trade Development Agency
       Work Program



                           Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director  Kristalina Georgieva
                           Sector Manager   Marjory-Anne Bromhead
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Vladimir Tsirkunov

                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RUSSIA OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASEOUT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   4
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         5
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 24
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Recipients Contribution to ICR

Project ID: P008800                                                  Project Name: RUSSIA OZONE DEPLETING
                                                                     SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASEOUT
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Vladimir Tsirkunov                                      TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: RUSSIA OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE                         L/C/TF Number: TF-28314
                            CONSUMPTION PHASEOUT PROJECT
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (98%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Pollution management
                            and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/15/1992                                     Effective: 09/29/1996
     Appraisal: 11/15/1995                                         MTR: 12/01/1999                  10/07/2000
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T OF RUSSIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE & MINISTRY OF NATURAL
                                           RESOURCES
                      Other Partners:      DANISH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, US TDA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   W. Thalwitz
Country Director:               Kristalina Georgieva                           R. Cheetham
Sector Manager:                 Marjory-Anne Bromhead                          Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:             Vladimir Tsirkunov                             Roger Batstone
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Cooke; Vladimir
                                Tsirkunov; Vassili Rodionov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall original objective of the Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substance
Consumption Phase Out Project (the Project) was to assist Russia in the phase-out of ODS
consumption, in a manner consistent with international efforts in the field, while ensuring that this
is accomplished with the minimum of economic dislocation.

The Project's more specific objectives are to:

(i)    allow Russia to credibly initiate meeting its ODS consumption phase-out obligations under
the Montreal Protocol within a realistic time frame;
(ii)   facilitate access to financial resources needed for ODS consumption phase-out from a
range of international and domestic sources;
(iii)  provide necessary technical assistance and institutional strengthening;
(iv)   fund enterprise specific investments in high consumption sectors; and
(v)    ensure that these activities mitigate potential negative economic and social impacts.

Assessment of the Objectives

The origin of the Project was the international community's recognition of the difficulty that the
Countries with Economies in Transition (CEITs) in Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union
(FSU) would have in meeting their obligations under the 1990 London Amendment to the
Montreal Protocol (MP), namely the elimination of Annex A and B Ozone Depleting Substances
(ODS) consumption and production by December 31, 2000. As non-article 5 countries under the
MP they were not eligible for international assistance available under the Montreal Protocol
Multi-Lateral Fund (MPMF). As a consequence, the Global Environmental Facility (GEF)
formally opened an Ozone Focal Area in 1995 for CEITs who had Country Programs endorsed
by the Parties to the MP, and had ratified the London Amendment. The Bank was a key
participant in the development of the Ozone Focal Area starting in 1992 which coincided with an
initial project concept being developed for assistance to the Russian Federation. However, the
preparation of an actual project could not be completed until GEF Operational Strategy including
the Ozone Focal Area was adopted and bilateral programs supporting the Country Program
development were completed.

Among the CEITs affected, the Russia's compliance with the London Amendment was a high
priority, as it was one of the world's largest consumers and producers of ozone depleting
substances (ODS) at the time and its actions were viewed as critical to international efforts to
address the this global environmental issue. In 1992, consumption of Annex A and B ODS in
Russia was estimated to be 48,929 MT ODP or about 7% of global use. Similarly, production
was estimated to be 74,513 MT ODP or about 10% of global production and it was the primary
source of ODS for other CEITs in the region (Production and Consumption of Ozone Depleting
Substances under the Montreal Protocol, 1986 to 2000, UNEP Ozone Secretariat, UNEP April 2002). For its
part, the Russian Federation ratified the London Amendment in January 1992 and with assistance
from the Danish Government developed, adopted a formal Country Program in 1995 (Resolution



                                                  - 2 -

on Priority Measures to Ensure Compliance with the Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer Protection and
Montreal Protocol on Ozone Depleting Substances, Resolution No. 526 of the Government of the Russian
Federation, May 1995). At the same time, it was continuing to pursue the efforts dating from the
Soviet Union's original ratification of the Montreal Protocol in 1988 to phase out ODS in line
with those of other developed countries.

At a general level, the Project's original objectives adequately define what the Project was
intended to accomplish within the context of international and national priorities at the time.
However, unlike GEF initiatives in other CEITs, this Project was not intended to be a
comprehensive country phase out in that it was initially limited to phase out investment in only
two high consumption sectors (aerosol and refrigeration equipment). In addition, it did not
address ODS production. Other ODS consumption sectors and ODS production were left to
national initiatives under the Country Program. Notwithstanding that this decision was in part
due to limitations in GEF funding available at that time, it left a significant gap in the Project's
scope related to the ultimate objective of ensuring that Russia achieved compliance with the
London Amendment. At a local level this would have likely compromised the specific objectives
related to mitigation of negative economic and social impacts.

Therefore by way of overall assessment of the original objectives, it is concluded that they were
adequate as a starting point but not realistically matched to the Project's scope as originally
defined. More specifically, they did not fully recognize the complex interrelation between ODS
consumption and production nor the rapidly evolving restructuring occurring in both the Russian
industrial sector and in the country's institutional structure. This failing was characteristic of
many international initiatives in addressing ODS phase out at the time. However, as described
below under Revised Objectives and Project Components, the Project design did allow sufficient
flexibility to expand the detailed Project objectives and scope in order to address these limitations
and ultimately allow the original overall objectives to be met.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Project's detailed objectives and associated scope evolved through the successive
preparation stages of the three tranche structure provided for by its design as a framework
Project. This involved successive approvals of detailed work programs (WP) by tranche. During
the implementation of the first tranche, and preparation/appraisal of the second and third
tranches, it became apparent that ODS phase out was also occurring in part due to the
restructuring of the Russian manufacturing sector, particularly in the domestic refrigeration
sector, and that many previously identified former larger ODS consumers were no longer
sustainable. Similarly, grant funding for viable sub-projects was often established at lower levels
upon appraisal than initially assumed when realistic sustainable production capacities and levels
of enterprise contribution were established.

As a consequence, progressive tranche appraisal and work program adjustment cycles made
resources available to expand the scope of the Project to other primary consumption sectors.
This allowed a more comprehensive approach to primary consumption phase out to be taken in
the third tranche work program. This had the effect of expanding the potential in achieving the
original overall project objective.



                                                - 3 -

 It was also recognized in the early stages of Project implementation that the phase out of ODS
 consumption will be inhibited as long as the supply of relatively inexpensive ODS is available
 which was the case in the RF prior to 2000. Under such circumstances, ODS consumers were
 reluctant to undertake timely phase out. Similarly, ODS producers would continue to respond to
 this demand, particularly given the general economic conditions in the chemical industry, unless a
 financial incentive was provided for them to cease operations. This impact extended to ODS
 consumption phase out efforts in other countries in the region to whom Russia was the
 traditional ODS supplier. To address this, the Bank and GOR developed a separate project, the
 Special Initiative for ODS Production Closure (Special Initiative) that was undertaken in parallel
 primarily using bilateral donor grant funding mobilized by the Bank. However, the Project made
 a significant contribution to the Special Initiative by transferring GEF resources available in the
 third tranche to it in order to supplement the bilateral funds mobilized by the Bank. In effect, the
 closure of Annex A and B ODS production in Russia became an additional (and very important)
 specific objective of the Project and served to substantially enhance the legitimacy of an
 expanded overall objective of achieving a comprehensive ODS phase out in the country. Because
 of this close linkage between the respective consumption phase out and production closure
 initiatives no formal revision in the original objective was made.

 Finally, it was recognized that other areas of consumption in which phase out would occur
 simply because of the absence of ODS supply should also be addressed to avoid significant social
 and economic impact. As a consequence, it was concluded that the Project should also accelerate
 phase out of residual ODS consumption related to servicing equipment that had remaining useful
 lives in the refrigeration and fire protection sectors. Introducing these new elements into the
 Project design was seen as having significant social and economic implications to the country's
 food distribution capability and to public safety and allowed the original objective of minimizing
 social and economic disruption to be met.

3.3 Original Components:

Within each of the three tranches, there were three components: investment sub-projects,
technical assistance and support for the project implementation unit (PIU) within the local
Implementing Agency. The overall Project received GEF Council and Board approval in May
1996 Global Environment Facility, Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out Project, Project
Document, The World Bank, Report No. 15326-RU, May 1996 inclusive of the appraised first tranche
investment sub-project component and a conceptual Work Program (WP) for subsequent
tranches. The following provides a brief description of the three components as originally
approved:

 a)      Investment Component: This component involved a portfolio of enterprise specific
 investment sub-projects prepared in accordance with the eligibility criteria established by the
 MPMF and peer reviewed using the Bank's Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG) The
 World Bank Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG) serves as the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
 (STAP) for the GEF ozone focal area. One enterprise in each of the consumer aerosol and domestic
 refrigeration sectors was appraised as first tranche investment sub-projects. The WP proposed
 for the second tranche covering six additional aerosol sub-projects, two domestic refrigeration


                                                  - 4 -

sub-projects and one commercial refrigeration sub-project. The WP proposed for the third
tranche covering four additional domestic refrigeration sub-projects and a generic demonstration
program for refrigeration servicing.

b)      Technical Assistance: The technical assistance (TA) component was intended to
strengthen country institutional capacity for supporting ODS phase out and eventual elimination
as well as support the implementation of the Project's investment component. Within the first
tranche this covered a number of specific TA sub-components related to regulatory measures,
monitoring residual ODS demand and its longer term phase out, project preparation and
appraisal of subsequent tranches, identification of phase out requirements in other sectors
including production, and developing public awareness and information initiatives.

c)      PIU Support Component: In accordance with GEF practice, this component supported the
operation of the PIU inclusive of staffing required for project supervision, preparation and
appraisal, procurement and financial management.

3.4 Revised Components:

During the preparation of the Second Tranche investment component, it was recognized that
sufficient funding would be available within the original GEF funding allocation to expand the
Project's scope to other consumption sectors and to allocate funding as a GEF contribution to
ODS production closure through the Special Initiative which added a fourth component. The
Second Tranche Global Environment Facility, Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out
Project, Project Document: Second Tranche, The World Bank, Report No. 17391-RU, February 1998, inclusive
of appraised investment sub-projects and expanded third tranche Work Program received GEF
CEO endorsement in May, 1998. The GEF Council approved the Third Tranche Global
Environment Facility, Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project, Project Document:
ThirdTranche, The World Bank, Report No. 18973-RU, May 1999., inclusive of the allocation of GEF
funds to the Special Initiative in May 1999 with subsequent Work Program amendments
covering additional appraised investment sub-projects endorsed by the GEF CEO in May 2000
and November 2001. These subsequent amendments allowed the Project to expand its scope to
cover support for phase out of residual secondary ODS consumption by adding sub-projects to
the Investment Sub-Project Component. The following provides brief descriptions of the revised
components under the second and third tranches as they were ultimately implemented:

a)      Investment Component:         This component was ultimately expanded to cover the
refrigeration servicing, medical aerosol, non-insulating foam, solvent, and fire protection sectors
as well as the original aerosol and refrigeration sectors. Work Program approval was obtained
for four appraised sub-projects in the second tranche (three aerosol and one commercial
refrigeration sub-projects). Fifty appraised and peer reviewed sub-projects were approved for the
third tranche (one aerosol, one medical aerosol, one domestic refrigeration, two commercial
refrigeration, thirty six refrigeration servicing, three non-insulating foam, two solvent and four
halon servicing sub-projects), although only thirty one were actually implemented. The others
were cancelled for various reasons by the enterprises or as a result of the absence of timely
government decision making. Despite this an overall scope of investment component and its
impact judged by ODP reductions exceeded initial projections.


                                                 - 5 -

b)     Technical Assistance: The technical assistance (TA) component in subsequent tranches
remained similar in scope to its original design with regulatory development, investment
sub-project preparation, technology transfer, public awareness and long term planning for future
national ODS elimination commitments continuing. The major change was increased use of TA
resources to directly maintain regulatory activities and international reporting compliance
requirements as the succession of government agencies responsible for environmental protection
retrenched and withdrew from an active institutional role in the ODS issue. In addition, under the
second tranche TA component, TA resources were used to support the detailed technical
preparation of the ODS production plant closure plans for the Special Initiative.

c)     PIU Support Component: This component continued to support the operation of the PIU
inclusive of staffing required for project supervision, preparation and appraisal, procurement and
financial management. Through successive Work Program amendments these resources were
increased to reflect the increasing load assumed by the PIU as the national focal point for ODS
issues, duration of the project and the complexity of project implementation resulting from the
large number of investment sub-projects and associated procurement and disbursement
transactions.

d)     ODS Production Closure: The addition of this component to the Work Program was
approved by the GEF Council with the third tranche after appraisal of the Special Initiative. It
originally constituted SDR 6.2 million (about US$8.5 million) of the overall Special initiative's
US$27.0 million funding.

A summary of the evolution of the project by component, tranche and Work Program approval
stage through to completion, inclusive of financial allocation, sectors addressed, and ODS phase
out data is provided in Table 1 below.




                                               - 6 -

  Table 1.: Evolution of the Project by Component and Tranche from Initial Approval to
                                                      Completion

                     GEF Council            2nd Tranche WP           3rd Tranche         3rd Tranche          3rd Tranche         Project
                       Approval                  Approval           GEF Council         WP Approval                WP           Completion
Component             (May 1996)               (May 1998)              Approval           (May 2000)             Amend.         (June 2004)
                                                                      (May 2000)                               (Nov. 2001)
               Phase Out GEF Grant Phase GEF Grant                  Phase      GEF      Phase      GEF       Phase     GEF Phase       GEF
               MT ODP             US$       Out        US$           Out      Grant      Out      Grant        Out    Grant Out       Grant
                                            MT                       MT        US$        MT        US$        MT      US$    MT       US$
                                            ODP                     ODP                  ODP                  ODP             ODP
                                                                 1st Tranche
                      2 Sub-Projects           1 Sub-Project         1 Sub-Project        1 Sub-Project        1 Sub-Project    1 Sub-Project
Investment            2,573       7,187,000 2,456      5,650,000       2,456 5,650,00      2,456 5,650,00       3,050 5,637,4 3,050   5,637,825
                                                                                     0                    0                 46
Technical                           748,000              780,000              742,000              742,000            477,306           478,917
Assistance
PIU Operating                       225,000              500,000              169,500              169,500            169,500           188,044
Costs
Sub-Totals            2,573       8,600,000 2,456      6,898,000       2,456 6,651,50      2,456 6,651,50       3,050 6,284,2 3,050   6,304,786
                                                                                     0                    0                 52
                                                                 2nd Tranche
                      9 Sub-Projects           4 Sub-Projects        4 Sub-Projects       4 Sub-Projects      4 Sub-Projects   4 Sub-Projects
Investment           11,438      33,470,000 6,140     25,200,000       8,357 20,972,0      8,357 20,972,0       7,696 16,392,  4,840 17,213,421
                                                                                    00                   00               860
Technical                         1,004,000              526,000              526,000              526,000            854,342           841,200
Assistance
PIU Operating                       526,000              426,000              629,160              629,160            629,160           789,345
Costs
Sub-Totals           11,438      35,000,000 6,140     26,152,000       8,357 22,127,1      8,357 22,127,1       7,696 17,876,  4,840 18,843,966
                                                                                    60                   60               362
                                                                 3rd Tranche
                      5 Sub-Projects           19 Sub-Projects      14 Sub-Projects*    14 Sub-Projects*     35 Sub-Projects   31 Sub-Projects
Investment            1,343      15,920,000 6,527     21,100,000       1,029 21,055,8      2,531 15,990,0       2,519 19,376,  1,144 17,451,891
                                                                                    00                   33               313
Technical                                 -              850,000              1,300,00            1,829,78            1,425,3         1,332,577
Assistance                                                                           0                    1                 85
Production                                -2,629*      5,000,000    5,912** 8,500,00 9,122** 8,500,00 8,569** 7,748,6 8,611           7,786,146
Closure***                                       *                                   0                    0                 14
PIU Operating                       480,000              850,000              414,174              479,686            476,686           652,547
Costs
Sub-Totals            1,343      16,400,000 9,156     26,950,000       6,941 31,269,9     11,653 26,799,5      11,088 29,026,  9,755 27,223,161
                                                                                    74                   00               998
Project              15,354      60,000,00017,752     60,000,000      17,754 59,958,6     20,010 55,488,6      21,834 53,187, 17,645 52,371.913
Totals                                                                              34                   12               612


*** Seven (7) enterprises beneficiaries
** ODS production phase out contribution is based on the actual production in the current year prorated by the contribution
amount against the total SI cost of US$26.20 million The final year of production (2000) is used for the years 2000 and 2001.
Actual ODS production in relevant years is 1998 - 14,196 MT ODP, 1999 - 18,778 MT ODP, 2000 - 28,975 MT ODP.
* Residual ODS Phase Out cConsidered a single Sub-Project

3.5 Quality at Entry:




                                                           - 7 -

 The Project's overall quality of entry is rated as satisfactory. The proactive efforts of the country
 using bilateral assistance provided the basic Country Program framework within which the
 Project could be prepared, inclusive of comprehensive preliminary identification of a candidate
 investment portfolio. While there were limitations associated with matching scope and objectives,
 the Project design was flexible enough to accommodate these. While no formalized link was
 made with a CAS at the time of entry, the Project was consistent with the Bank and
 Government's stated priority of addressing key global environmental issues. In terms of
 safeguard policies, the Bank's Operational Policy 4.01 "Environmental Assessment" is the main
 one applicable and the Project's overall objective is consistent with it. Recognizing that
 individual sub-project implementation could have environmental impacts, all were subject to
 environmental assessment consistent with the Category B rating assigned to the overall project.
 The main environmental issue identified at entry was the use of flammable and explosive
 hydrocarbon ODS substitutes in the aerosol, refrigeration and non-insulating foam sectors. This
 was addressed by applying design review and formal safety audits by international experts of all
 affected investment sub-projects as a condition of approval and eligibility.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Meeting ODS Phase Out Obligations Under the Montreal Protocol within a Reasonable Time
Frame: Overall achievement of the Project's outcome is evaluated as satisfactory on the basis that
the overall objective of reaching effective phase out of Annex A and B ODS consumption was
achieved. Russia was in substantial compliance with its obligations under the London Amendment
by December 31, 2000 with the cessation of Annex A and B ODS production and substantive
primary consumption elimination by December 31, 2001 in the originally targeted consumer
aerosol and refrigeration sectors. This was one year latter than the non-Article 5 country phase
out date but was in accordance with the Country's declarations accepted by the Parties of the
Protocol. Relative to the starting point of other non-Article 5 countries, this reflected a substantial
achievement given that it was effectively accomplished over a five year period where OECD
countries typically took around 10 years to accomplish the same result. The only major exception
was one non-compliant enterprise in the medical aerosol sector that remains an enforcement issue
to be addressed by the GOR. The overall annual ODS phase out achieved was 17,645 MT ODP
against an originally targeted 15,354 MT ODP indicating that the overall project objective was
substantially exceeded. 8,968 MT ODP of annual consumption based on the final year of ODS
use prior to conversion was phased out. This was somewhat lower that originally targeted at
appraisal of individual sub-projects (9,122 MT), the difference primarily being a result of
progressive reduction in ODS use prior to full conversion either by partial conversion or
enterprises down sizing production capacity to meet realistic market demand, and, in the
refrigeration servicing sector, the more rapid than anticipated conversion and replacement of older
equipment, both of which were themselves stimulated by the project.

Facilitate access to financial resources needed for ODS consumption phase-out from a range of
international and domestic sources: The achievement of the basic objectives of effective country
wide phase out of Annex A and B substances within the original GEF financial allocation indicates



                                                 - 8 -

that the required financial resources were successfully mobilized.         In addition to the GEF
resources, significant levels of enterprise contribution were involved (US$24.3 million). These
were largely generated by the enterprises own funds although, in several instances, the GEF core
financing facilitated or supported access to international financing either as part of companion
plant modernization as was the case at JSC "Holodmash" or in the growth of the businesses once
the basic technical modernization was GEF financed. Examples of the GEF financing creating the
competitive capacity to attract debt and equity investment include JSC "Arnest," JSC
"Harmonia," JSC "Mariholodmash," JSC "Sibiar" and JSC "Iceberg." Some limited international
technical assistance resources were also attracted to the project, notably US TDA support of third
tranche sub-project identification and Danish financing of additional refrigeration servicing
investments. The key role of the Danish Government in financing the original Country Program
should also be noted. While this effectively provided the basis for obtaining GEF funding, the
potential availability of this funding itself was the motivator for the donor to participate. The only
area where the outcome against this objective might be deemed deficient was the absence of
Government financial support either for institutional development or investment, although this did
not materially impact the positive overall Project outcomes.

Provide Necessary Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening:            The outcomes of
technical assistance and institutional strengthening undertaken by the Project are generally judged
to have successfully met this objective during the life of the Project, having left a solid basis for
the future should the government choose to utilize it. With the Project's support, Russia
developed a modern regulatory framework for the proactive management of ODS issues
consistent with international practice. This included establishment and updating of the Country
Program, effective international reporting as required under the Montreal Protocol, establishment
of regulatory controls on ODS consumption, import and export, and licensing of residual ODS
consumption. It moved Russia from being a highly criticized country to a respected participants
and contributor to the work undertaken internationally under the MP, culminating in the country's
main spokesman and director of the Project PIU being appointed the President of the 11th
Meeting of the Parties in Beijing.        In addition, strong capacity to independently plan and
implement national programs, undertake technology development and transfer initiatives, prepare
and appraise required investments, disseminate results, enhance public awareness on the issue, and
undertake the large and technically complex procurement and financial requirements of the project
to international standards was developed. However, a qualification of the success of this outcome
is expressed given the uncertainty attached to the Government's plans to sustain this capacity
institutionally (see more in part 4.2). However, this would not impact the overall Project
outcomes and particularly the possibility of any return to ODS production or consumption.

Fund Enterprise Specific Investments in High Consumption Sectors: The overall outcome of
successful phase out in the high consumption consumer aerosol and refrigeration sectors is judged
as satisfactorily meeting the objective. GEF funding generally financed the modernization of all
the viable major consumers in these two sectors by providing access to current competitive
non-ODS technology. In the consumer aerosol sector which constituted the largest consumption
sector, most of the sub-projects undertaken created competitive enterprises that have effectively
regained a substantial part of the traditional domestic and CIS market with some starting to have
major global export linkages. These sub-projects were generally implemented with high



                                                  - 9 -

comparative cost effectiveness levels and their conversion from ODS effectively removed the core
demand for the two major CFCs (CFC-11 and 12) in Russia. Having said that, inevitably not all
enterprises have been as successful as others and the two late finishing aerosol sub-projects (JSC
"Chimprom" and JSC "Til") face challenges to sustain their operations in what has become a
highly competitive market. The outcomes related to commercial refrigeration were similarly
successful with the project supporting the effective survival and ultimately long term viability of
the two largest consumers in this sector. However, the outcome in the domestic refrigeration
sector was mixed. This sector was slow to restructure from its former linkages to military
production and largely collapsed economically by the time the Project was implemented. Only one
enterprise in the sector was judged viable and was included in the Project with a successful
outcome in itself. The remnant enterprises in this once large consumption sector continue at low
levels of production, using dated technology. Annex A and B consumption has been replaced by
transitional substances which themselves will have to be replaced in the medium term. However,
the combination of relatively low end products, older production facilities and the strong
competition from modern high quality product from one major new producer in Russia using
western technology and the modern production in Ukraine, Belarus and Central Europe funded by
other GEF Projects will make their long term viability questionable.

Ensure that ODS Phase Out Activities Mitigate Potential Negative Economic and Social
Impacts. Within the initially narrow scope of the Project which focused on high consumption
aerosol and refrigeration sectors, the outcome against this objective is judged as having
substantively mitigated the economic and social impacts of ODS phase out and in fact provided
substantial benefits in this area. It is likely that few if any of the major ODS consumers financed
under the Project would have been sustainable in the absence of the Project. The absence of legal
ODS supply and high cost of any other sources would have effectively rendered their old
technology uncompetitive in either the aerosol or refrigeration sectors. This would have resulted
in substantial employment reductions and associated local economic impacts as well as increasing
import reliance for the country as a whole. It is particularly noteworthy that successful
sub-projects have likely sustained local economies in otherwise poorer regions such as the North
Caucasus and Middle Volga. Employment has generally been maintained and in some cases
increased in all beneficiary enterprises and, in the majority, is now at levels above that recorded at
appraisal.

Contribute to the Elimination of Annex A and B ODS Production. The outcome against this
additional objective is considered highly successful noting that the GEF contribution as effectively
the largest donor was critical to this success. Russian production of Annex A and B ODS (CFCs
and Halons) stopped at the end of 2000 and the capacity for such production was permanently
closed by mid 2001 under the Special Initiative. This involved production capacity of 140,000
MT ODP and actual production in its last year of 28,975 MT ODP. The cost effectiveness of the
GEF contribution to this is estimated to be 0.20$/kg ODP for capacity, and 0.90$/kg ODP for
actual production. This is understood to be the most cost effective international initiative of its
kind undertaken to date. It is also worth noting that the beneficiary enterprises to varying degrees
have all utilized the compensation payments to develop new production, including ODS
substitutes for domestic use which has further facilitated ODS consumption phase out, as well as
improve the environmental performance of their facilities.



                                                   - 10 -

Accelerate Phase Out of Residual ODS Consumption while Mitigating Associated Social and
Economic Impacts. The final outcomes of this additional objective are difficult to definitively
assess given the long term nature of the intervention. However in the refrigeration servicing
sector, assessment of the core national system developed under the Project indicates significant
coverage and growing effectiveness. Project supported regional recovery operations which are
estimated to directly access approximately 30% of the national market and indirectly offer
geographical coverage of approximately 50% of the national population from the Baltic to the
Pacific. It is also apparent that phase out of residual demand is occurring faster than projected due
to a combination of the use of drop-in blends and accelerated retirement of older equipment. The
success of the system and its growing effectiveness are attributable in large part to the upgrade in
basic technician skills and equipment from the Project and to the implementation of market based
incentives and business relationships in the sector both of which have been a major focus of TA
initiatives under the project. The overall conclusion therefore is that the outcomes to date are
satisfactory and that the social and economic impacts of not having CFCs available are minimal.
However, it should also be pointed out that to sustain this result, proactive institutional actions by
the Government are required. More specifically, the capability to recover, reprocess and recycle
CFCs needs to be certified and authorization granted to qualified operators to access the
significant unused stocks remaining in abandoned military and industrial equipment. This will
provide a long term supply as the last residual demand is serviced as well as preventing its
eventual random release into the atmosphere. The Project did not succeed in initiating direct
recovery and recycling of halons in the fire protection sector as intended, largely due to the failure
of the state controlled enterprises in the sector to capitalize on the opportunities afforded by the
Project. However, this capacity is developing independently consistent with the halon
management plan developed under the Project and has benefited indirectly through the Special
Initiative.

4.2 Outputs by components:

First Tranche Investment Component: While originally two large investment sub-projects were
appraised, one in the domestic refrigeration sector was cancelled due to inability to meet its
contribution requirements and prolonged restructuring. The other in the consumer aerosol sector
at JSC "Arnest" had a highly successful and cost effective outcome that involved 3,050 MT ODP
in actual ODS phase out. The enterprise has rapidly expanded production since that time,
attracting EBRD and other foreign investment and has developed a significant export market in
Western Europe and elsewhere. Its location in the North Caucasus is also particularly important
as a demonstration of the viability of sustained industrial development in a region with lesser
economic prospects.

Second Tranche Investment Component: All four investment sub-projects have been completed,
three of which can be considered highly successful. The consumer aerosol sub-projects at JSC
"Sibiar" and JSC "Harmonia" also involved very substantial ODS phase out (3,978 MT ODP)
with good cost effectiveness levels and significant enterprise financial commitments. Both have
expanded production since project implementation and are considered sustainable operations in
the long term. JSC "Mariholodmash" while suffering through difficult restructuring during and
after sub-project implementation is now operating competitively with private sector management


                                                 - 11 -

at levels equal to that of appraisal. The aerosol sub-project at JSC "Chimprom" was completed
only after long delays, very uneven project and procurement management, and limited and
reluctant financial commitment by the enterprise. Ultimately, it's completion was only achieved as
a consequence of proactive direct intervention by the Bank Project Team and PIU. The outcome
may be considered marginally satisfactory although its long term sustainability and continued use
of GEF investments should be monitored. This sub-project provides useful lessons with respect to
the need to test enterprise capability and commitment on an ongoing basis and the difficulty that
results in undertaking these kinds of investments in traditional state controlled enterprises as they
are being restructured, privatized, change ownership and downsized.

Third Tranche Investment Component: The outcomes associated with the seven investment
sub-projects involving primary ODS phase out were generally quite successful with some
exceptions or qualifications. The major sub-project in the commercial refrigeration sector (JSC
"Holodmash") was satisfactorily completed and leaves a legacy of a viable modern refrigeration
compressor manufacturer that serves not only the RF but most of the CIS. The three
non-insulating foam sub-projects were similarly successful.        The Project provided a major
automotive component supplier (JSC "Plastik") with the core investment for a major production
modernization required for the enterprise to keep pace with modernization in the auto sector
generally and participate in new models meeting international standards. An additional benefit of
this technology change was significant weight reductions in the products which translate into
improved fuel economy and green house gas reductions. The other two sub-projects in this sector
involve suppliers of basic building materials that allow import replacement and in one case the
effective maintenance of a community dependant on the enterprise. Outcomes for the one
consumer aerosol sub-project in this tranche (JSC "TiL") are judged as unsatisfactory and reflect
a difficult implementation process involving inadequate and ultimately insufficient enterprise
financial contribution, something that reflects low commitment of a beneficiary whose ownership
and long term prospects remain uncertain. At closing, this sub-project, while operational had
failed to pass the required safety audit. A follow up inspection of the facility indicates that a
number of the major safety related deficiencies have or are being corrected but the facility is
judged to not fully meet international standards nor has it received a formal approval from local
fire protection authorities. On this basis, action by the Government is required to rectify these
deficiencies and allow the Bank to consider the grant funds as being used for eligible purposes.
The medical aerosol sub-project undertaken at JSC "Altaivitaminy" had an unsatisfactory
outcome at the time of grant closure. After long delays, the enterprise accepted and installed
modern GEF financed equipment but has not met its own financial commitments to support its use
with non-ODS propellant. Furthermore, it has stated its intention to continue this use at least in
the near term and eventually convert to a different non-ODS substance using GEF financed
equipment. The Bank project team considers the GEF funding disbursed against this sub-project
to be at least in part ineligible and such funds should be subject to recovery from the GOR as
provided for under the Grant Agreement. Furthermore, any consideration of allowing any of the
sub-grant disbursed as eligible should be conditional on the GOR and enterprise rapidly
converting to full non-ODS use and that any ODS in the interim be carefully monitored as being
legally consumed.

Third Tranche Residual ODS Phase Out Management Component: The overall outcomes of this



                                                - 12 -

component are described above under the acceleration of residual ODS consumption phase out.
With respect to individual sub-projects in the refrigeration servicing sector, the outcome
assessment is generally positive, qualified only by the limited period that they have been operating.
The three large regional sub-projects covering the lower Volga/North Caucasus, Kuzbass and
Urals regions that have been operational for several years are proving effective and are now
providing central reclaim capability to a large area. The twenty one smaller servicing sub-projects
are likewise operational and show excellent potential.
ODS Production Closure Component: The positive assessment of outcomes associated with the
GEF contribution to the Special Initiative is described above under elimination of ODS
Production.

Technical Assistance Component: Assessment of TA and institutional strengthening outputs is
done for each of the general categories of activities supported by the GEF as follows:

i)      Investment Component Preparation: TA resources in the first and second tranche were
used primarily for international and local consultants to identify, prepare and appraise investment
sub-projects and in the third tranche to support implementation and documentation of
sub-projects. While quality of individual assignment outputs varied, the overall outcomes were
satisfactory. A continuously updated portfolio of investment opportunities was generated and
allowed the expansion of Project scope to target the optimum and most viable candidates. It
provided ongoing technical support during implementation where adjustments in technical scope
were required and enterprises required assistance with complex international requirements and
specifications. For the third tranche it also provided creditable safety audit capacity as required for
GEF eligibility where flammable or explosive ODS substitutes were used, something that was
recognized as being deficient in the first two tranches where enterprises contracted these audits.
Perhaps most significantly, the use of combined Russian and international teams resulted in
development of a strong core of local professionals capable of this kind of work internationally,
something that the Bank among others has utilized on other projects internationally. Of particular
note was the Special Initiative Closure Plan development which has proven to be a model for
similar operations in the chemical sector generally.

ii)     Project Management Capacity Building: TA resources were extensively used to support
the PIU's project management function, specifically in areas such as procurement management,
addressing the range of financial and tax issues that arise with a transaction intensive Project such
as this and in handling the extensive routine monitoring and reporting required under the Grant
and Sub-Grant Agreements. This was largely done by local firms and experts with a valuable pool
of expertise being now available to support international as well as domestic development
projects.

iii)    Institutional and Regulatory Development: The Project TA component can be said to
have almost entirely supported the country's progress in developing a modern regulatory
framework for ODS management and control. This has been established within the overall
framework of the Country Program as has been periodically updated for Government
endorsement. It covers a formal licensing system for ODS consumption and production,
assignment of quotas, import/export controls and a system of data collection for purposes of



                                                 - 13 -

international reporting under the MP. This in itself is a major positive outcome, particularly when
it was accomplished during a period of major institutional change and instability in environmental
management sector. However, this conclusion must be qualified by the current uncertainty
regarding its sustainability given the absence of any material commitment within the responsible
government agencies to assume responsibility for or to fully implement these tools. This is
unlikely to have any direct impact on the overall achievements of the Project in sustained phasing
out of primary ODS production and consumption since the results of the investment component
are effectively irreversible. However, it raises concerns about Russia's ability and willingness to
implement the evolving international phase out requirements of the MP in areas such as methyl
bromide and transitional substances or even more broadly in being part of global chemical
management agenda where Russia should be a major participant. Having said this, upon closing
there is an indication that the Government may be responding to this issue within the current
round of restructuring of environmental management responsibility.

iv)     Technology Transfer: The Project TA component either directly or in association with
other initiatives supported a wide range of technology transfer initiatives covering such things as
the use of new low GDP and transitional drop-in refrigerants, non-ODS fire protection measures,
and ODS substitute selection. These efforts served to increase awareness within the ODS
consumption community of options available and generally facilitated the acceptance of new
technology and effective implementation of phase out investments. It is also clear in retrospect
that some areas such as medical aerosols should have been targeted for technology transfer, given
the ultimate unwillingness of a technically backward enterprise to understand and accept ODS
replacement technology while still attempting to utilize GEF support.

v)      Public Awareness and Dissemination: The outcomes in this area while modest and
conventional in nature are assessed as being effective. A significant volume of multi-media
material has been prepared and disseminated to the public generally, within stakeholder
organizations and particularly to the technical and industrial community. Of particular note are a
series of publications covering ODS substitute technologies and long term planning of residual
ODS use in the refrigeration and fire protection sectors which have seen wide acceptance both in
Russia and internationally, notably in other CIS countries.

PIU Support Component: The PIU operation supporting the Project is judged as having
developed a superior capability in handling technically complex and politically sensitive
undertakings within a difficult and constantly changing institutional environment. The fact that it
was led throughout by a senior, well respected professional with strong technical capability and
well versed in the evolving bureaucratic process was a key advantage. It ultimately provided a
good balance between independence and connection within the government structure, something
that other PIUs have often not provided. Having said that it must also be noted that PIU capacity
and associated performance did decline over the last two years of the Project, something that is
directly attributable to the absence of a stable environmental management responsibility in the
Government at the policy level compounded by increasing counterproductive interference in
routine administrative functions of the PIU.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:




                                                - 14 -

An economic analysis was not performed on the Project as this has not been the practice for
projects of this type given the difficulty in quantifying the positive economic impact from global
reduction in ozone depletion and resulting health and climate change impacts. As noted above,
the project would also have had significant local and national positive economic impacts through
modernization of a significant number of manufacturing and service enterprises such that they are
sustainable when they would otherwise likely have disappeared.

A further measure of economic performance is provided by the grant cost effectiveness (CE) as
measured in US$/Kg ODP. The overall GEF grant CE of the Project's ODS consumption related
investment was US$4.49/Kg ODP based on the final year of ODS use prior to conversion or
US$3.53/Kg ODP based on appraised consumption. Actual total GEF Grant CE with inclusion
of the ODS production closure contribution was US$3.05/Kg ODP. Table 2 summarizes the
appraised and actual CE's for each investment sub-project. In general the actual CE based on the
original phase out impact was superior to that on which the sub-project was approved and in
many cases compared favorably even based on the terminal ODS consumption. Table 3 below
compares this against other Bank GEF ODS projects in the region and indicates that the
Project's performance is the best yet achieved. Overall, it is anticipated to be among the most
cost effective internationally financed national programs undertaken to date.




                                               - 15 -

  Table 2. Approved and Actual Grant Cost Effectiveness for Investment Sub-Projects
                                                       Cost Effectiveness US$/Kg ODP
               Enterprise/                                        Actual
               Sub-Project              Approved        Based on       Based on Last   MPMF
                                                        Appraised     Year of ODS Use Threashold
                                                        Phase Out
                                         Aerosol Sector
Arnest                                   2.33              2.29             1.85        4.40
Sibar                                    3.31              1.39             1.46        4.40
Chimprom                                 2.88              2.75             5.87        4.40
Harmonia                                 3.25              3.21             3.51        4.40
Til                                      4.34              4.80             4.24        4.40
Altaivitaminy                            11.91         Incomplete                       N/A
                                    Commercial Refrigeration
Mariholodmash                            8.74             12.72            12.72        15.21
Holodmash                                12.32            12.86             8.76        15.21
                                  Domestic Refrigeration Sector
Iceberg                                  5.76              5.24            11.78        13.76
                                       Non-Insulating Foam
 Plastik                                 13.95            11.78            13.10        13.95
 Stroidetal                              7.60              6.41             5.03        8.22
 Nelidovo                                8.17              7.72             5.86        8.22
                                  Refrigeration Servicing Sector
 Combine TT                              26.90            25.20            50.30        N/A
 Pyatigorsk TT                           60.21            47.73            100.30       N/A
 Kemerovo TT                             25.00            23.45            42.70        N/A
 Samara TT                               34.03            25.95            54.50        N/A
 Rostov TT                               12.58             7.36            12.50        N/A
 Yartorgtechnika                         26.68            20.60            32.10        N/A
 Orenburg TT                             41.95            28.40            135.80       N/A
 Orel TT                                 33.63            22.97            32.10        N/A
 Volgograd TT                            10.42             7.03            17.40        N/A
 Perm TT                                 9.47              7.00            38.80        N/A
 Bryansk TT                              36.88            26.83            22.30        N/A
 Tvertorgtechnika                        12.85            10.10            18.70        N/A
 Cherepovets TT"/ Vologda TT             46.11            28.01            35.20        N/A
 Irkutsk TT/ Ulan-Ude TT                 17.93            14.01            27.20        N/A
 Primtorgtechnika/ Kamchat TT            8.03              7.43            16.70        N/A
 Astrakhan TT                            15.70            12.70            44.00        N/A
 Podolsk TT                              37.19            23.78            91.40        N/A
 Chelyabinsk TT                          22.58            20.58            39.10        N/A
 Kaliningrad TT                          17.36            17.16            28.30        N/A
 Pskov TT/Novgorod TT                    20.98            17.32            62.00        N/A
                                     ODS Production Closure
 Seven Enterprise                        0.93              N/A              0.90        N/A


Table 3.: GEF Grant Cost Effectiveness (CE) Comparison with other Bank ODS Phase out
                                Projects in the Region



                                         - 16 -

              Country                      Actual GEF Grant             Actual GEF Grant CE
                                               Million US$                   US$/Kg ODP
    Belarus                                       6.79                            9.84
    Bulgaria                                      9.69                            26.64
    Czech Republic                                2.42                       Not Calculated
    Hungary                                       6.49                            6.24
    Poland                                        5.88                            7.17
    Russian Federation                         52.37/44.6*                     2.98/4.94*
    Slovenia                                       5.4                            15.88
    Ukraine                                     23.20**                          14.1**
* Estimated without Production Closure
** Estimated based on current performance data

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Consistent with practice for projects of this type, no FRR was performed on the Project.
However, a financial viability assessment was performed on each enterprises proposing investment
sub-projects through the screening, preparation and appraisal process. Quarterly financial
reporting was required during sub-project implementation and, where concerns were noted,
updated financial viability assessments were undertaken. In general, it was concluded that this
process was effective in ensuring that both comprehensive phase out was achieved while directing
available funds to only those enterprises that were sustainable. A significant number of potential
beneficiaries that would not have survived transition to the market economy were eliminated
before GEF financing was committed. At closing, of the final thirty six consumption sub-projects,
only three are considered at some risk due to the enterprises potentially not being sustainable.
The remaining enterprises all have viable businesses and most are showing growth reflecting a
competitive position in the market.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

   The Project has supported and immediate counterparts have effectively developed the
   necessary regulatory and institutional tools to allow Russia to move forward with future ODS
   management, consistent with international expectations and standards. However, the MNR
   has not assigned or resourced any permanent responsibility for ODS issues within its structure
   once the Project is over, despite having this capacity readily available. Similarly the overall
   institutional mechanism that supervised the Project, namely the Interagency Commission for
   Ozone Layer Protection (IAC), is currently inoperative, despite having been a very effective
   vehicle for consensus building and decision making for most of the Project. Based on this, the
   overall conclusion is that the Project long term impact on institutional development is
   dependant on the results of the current restructuring of environmental management
   responsibility within the GOR. More specifically, it will require the new Federal Service for
   Environmental, Technological and Nuclear Oversight or MNR to assume direct responsibility
   for this issue and provide capacity to address it, building on that provided by the Project.
   More generally, this would also have been seen as a pre-condition for any future international
   initiatives of this type, either related to ODS or other global chemical pollutant issues.




                                                 - 17 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

  The major external factor affecting the project outside the government or implementing
  agency's control was the overall evolution of the Russian industrial sector generally during the
  period of implementation. The fact that the portfolio of investment interventions evolved from
  initial preparation reflects the market driven restructuring that was occurring with resultant
  impacts on the viability and stability of ODS consumers. However, the flexible design in the
  Project and rigorous application of financial viability tests allowed effective and timely
  responses in most cases. In the end, this did not substantially impact the overall positive
  outcome, although clearly the uncertain outcomes of several of the late completing individual
  sub-projects were negatively impacted by this ongoing industrial restructuring.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

 The overall decline in Government commitment to environmental protection as a priority public
 policy detracted from maximizing the positive project outcome over the last two to three years of
 the Project's implementation. This is evidenced in overall terms by the downgrading of the
 responsible environmental protection agency within the government structure itself and failure to
 sustain effective institutional mechanisms like the IAC. This resulted in not being able to properly
 integrate the global issue involved into the process of industrial restructuring. All of this
 significantly inhibited the ability of the Implementing Agency but more specifically an otherwise
 highly effective PIU to fully capitalize on the international resources available to it.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The major factor affecting implementation which was subject to the control of the succession of
Implementing Agencies was the decline in functional commitment and allocation of resources to
support the Project's orderly completion over the last several years. During the period over which
MNR acted as the implementing agency, almost continuous restructuring of the environmental
management responsibility occurred. Throughout this, the Implementing Agency's involvement
was characterized by continued promises of commitment but, in practice, by excessive
administrative delays in routine decision making and approvals. This impeded implementation
progress generally, frustrated attempts to take timely remedial actions with the few low
performing sub-projects, and negated the PIU's attempts to utilize available resources for
additional residual ODS phase out investments. Despite the opportunity afforded by the Bank
through several extensions of the grant closing dates, MNR's performance in 2001-2003 was the
primary reason for the loss of approximately US$7.7 million in available GEF funding that could
have gone to additional residual ODS phase out sub-projects, sixteen of which were prepared and
approved. It is also the prime factor in the uncertainty associated with the sustainability of the
institutional and regulatory tools created by the Project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original capital cost estimate for the originally appraised overall framework project was
US$104.3 million made up of US$60.0 million in GEF grant financing overall of which US$57.0



                                                     - 18 -

million was for investment sub-projects in consumption phase out. US$44.3 million in enterprise
and government financing was estimated, subject to detailed appraisal of second and third tranche
investment sub-projects. Based on appraised sub-projects, the estimated cost of consumption
phase out investment sub-projects and production closure was US$81.5 million inclusive of
US$58.1 million in GEF financing and US$23.5 million in enterprise contribution. The actual
overall cost of the project was US$72.4 million, of which US$63.7 million was associated with
consumption phase out investment sub-projects. Total GEF financing was US$48.1 million of
which US$39.5 million was devoted to consumption phase out investment sub-projects, US$7.8
million was directed to production closure and US$ US$24.3 million was enterprise financed. No
direct government financing was provided. The following Table 4 provides a summary of
investment sub-project and production closure costs and financing. The approved and actual
technical assistance and PIU costs are reported previously in the Table 1, Section 3.4.

The variation between appraised and actual costs noted above resulted from a number of factors.
Significant savings were accumulated through generally positive competitive bidding impacts and
by exercising the flexibility through the staged tranche and work plan approval process to
downsize or restructure several sub-projects. Early completing sub-projects also generally
benefited from favorable changes in US$/SDR exchange rates. Countering this was significant
escalation in local costs, particularly for works which in the case of many of the more aggressive
enterprises was generally accommodated by increased enterprise contributions. Also impacting
later finishing sub-projects was the reversal in US$/SDR exchange rates particularly where
procurement contracts were denominated in Euros. As noted above, a significant amount of grant
funding was left unused.




                                                - 19 -

               Table 4.: Cost and Financing Summary - Investment sub-projects
      Enterprise/           Estimate at Appraisal (US$)                   Actual (US$)
      Sub-Project                         Financing                               Financing
                         Cost    Enterprise         GEF           Cost      Enterprise    GEF
                                           Aerosol Sector
Arnest                14,468,060     8,818,080       5,650,000   16,654,562  11,016,737  5,637,825
Sibar                 17,570,994     4,429,724      13,141,270    7,827,811   2,319,462  5,508,349
                      9,227,805*   1,362,510*       7,865,295*
Chimprom               7,795,002     2,703,002       5,092,000    5,690,871      957,483 4,733,388
Harmonia               8,106,385     1,854,385       6,252,000    8,471,222   2,285,855  6,185,367
Til                      844,000       120,000         724,000      880,218       82,816   797,402
Altaivitaminy **         936,400       305,000         631,400      955,422      134,000   821,422
                                 Commercial Refrigeration Sector
Mariholodmash          4,634,311     3,753,311         881,000    3,400,691   2,614,374    786,317
Holodmash              2,514,625       259,625       2,255,000    2,689,073      341,753 2,347,320
                                   Domestic Refrigeration Sector
Iceberg                  746,900        56,100         690,800      785,225      156,166   629,059
                                    Non-Insulating Foam Sector
Plastik                3,646,488       906,388       2,740,100    5,796,877   2,853,139  2,943,738
Stroidetal             1,103,100        20,750       1,082,350    1,485,555      403,555 1,082,000
Nelidovo               1,160,500        22,000       1,138,500    1,776,015      856,152   919,863
                                   Refrigeration Servicing Sector
Combine TT             2,277,628        38,628       2,239,000    2,199,596      106,739 2,092,857
Pyatigorsk TT          1,175,025        30,625       1,144,400      935,350       28,331   907,019
Kemerovo TT            1,746,230        42,230       1,704,000    1,652,582       57,579 1,595,003
Samara TT                238,707         7,550         231,157      189,209        7,550   181,659
Rostov TT                259,329        14,900         231,157      162,117       14,900   147,217
Yartorgtechnika          288,294         7,635         280,639      234,357        7,635   226,702
Orenburg                 240,870         5,450         235,420      175,855        5,450   170,405
Orel TT                  304,858         7,550         297,308      214,295        7,550   206,745
Volgograd TT             117,664         8,390         109,274       85,773        8,390    77,383
Perm TT                  337,810        10,700         327,110      255,725       10,700   245,025
Bryansk TT               210,564         5,765         204,799      166,767        5,765   161,002
Tvertorgtechnika         244,186         5,450         238,736      197,312        5,450   191,862
Cherepovets              259,004         5,240         253,764      173,325        5,240   168,085
TT/Vologda TT
Irkutsk TT/Ulan-Ude      457,072         7,550         449,522      357,805        7,550   350,255
TT
Primtorgtechnika/        503,068         6,185         496,883      467,357        6,185   461,172
Kamchat TT
Astrakhan TT             133,299         2,510         130,789      104,148        2,510   101.638
Podolsk TT               224,619         6,185         218,434      196,422        6,185   190,237
Chelyabinsk TT           270,348        10,700         259,648      257,603       10,700   246,903
Kaliningrad TT            73,894         2,405          71,489       71,063        2,405    68,658
Pskov TT/Novgorod TT     146,609         4,925         141,684      126,184        4,925   121,259
Consumption Total     73,035,863   23,478,958       49,556,905   63,721,769  24,227,494 39,494,275
                                         Production Closure
                       8,500,000             -       8,500,000    7,786,146            - 7,786,146
PROJECT TOTAL         81,535,863   23,478,958       58,056,905   72,422,533  24,332,251 48,089,282



                                               - 20 -

*After restructuring and re-appraisal;
** Sub-Project not completed. Enterprise contribution unverified

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The Project's satisfactory sustainability rating is primarily based on the irreversible nature of the
successful ODS consumption phase out outcome which was its overall objective. It can be
concluded with some certainty that Russia will not be a consumer or producer of Annex A and B
ODS in the future. Similarly, the prospects appear good for the long term viability of the large
majority of investment sub-projects undertaken. Therefore, the positive social and economic
benefits of the Project associated with industrial modernization should be sustained in a market
economy. While not altering the overall conclusion on sustainability of the Project's ODS phase
out outcome, the sustainability of the Project's institutional and regulatory outcomes is uncertain.
It is unclear despite effective institutional mechanisms and regulatory tools developed in Russia
within the scope of project, how or if the country will continue as an active international
participant in addressing this global issue, or implement new ODS phase out imperatives adopted
by the international community.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

No definable transition arrangements to regular operations related to maintaining the institutional
and regulatory framework developed under the Project have been undertaken. There are
contradicting signals from the Government regarding designation of MP responsibilities between
the current Implementing Agency (MNR) and the new Federal Service for Environmental,
Technological and Nuclear Oversight.                However, the country continues to maintain its
participation in international forums on ODS during this transitional period using capacity
developed under the Project. Within the working levels of Government, implementation of
regulatory requirements related to import/export control and licensing can be expected to
continue. However, provision of policy direction through such vehicles as maintaining a current
Country Program as well as and updating or direct enforcement of regulatory requirements by
environmental authorities have uncertain prospects pending stabilization of the overall institutional
structure in the sector.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

 The Bank's performance in undertaking its obligations as a GEF Implementing Agency for the
 Project are considered satisfactory. The Project represented a timely intervention on a major
 global environmental issue in the country where it could have the greatest impact in the region. It
 integrated its preparation work with bilateral assistance and was coordinated within the Bank
 with similar projects in the region that were linked to the Project and ultimately whose success
 depended in part it. The Project is inherently investment oriented but was designed to provide
 institutional and regulatory support consistent with the needs jointly identified with the
 Government. Provision within this of resources for ongoing preparation was a critical factor in


                                                      - 21 -

 providing the ability to adapt and capitalize on the evolving nature of ODS phase out
 requirements as well as creating strong local technical and project management capacity. On the
 negative side, the provision of generous technical assistance and PIU support allowed the
 Government to withdraw its own resources from this particular issue, something that in
 retrospect might have been countered by a requirement for matching government contribution as
 part of Grant conditionality.    The introduction of the ODS Production Component during
 implementation could have been viewed as a major restructuring requiring Board approval.
 However, recognizing that this component was effectively a contribution to a separate Board
 approved project and that it would considerably contribute to achievement of the overall
 objective of the Project this was not felt to be warranted.

7.2 Supervision:

 The rating of the supervision is rated as satisfactory. While the Project was led by a number of
 different task managers, the core project team that included the current task manager was
 constant throughout such that a high degree of continuity was provided and critical relationships
 and networks were maintained despite the instability of counterpart organizations in the project's
 latter phases. The project itself was highly supervision intensive given the large number of
 different beneficiaries, the technical complexity of many of the investment component
 sub-projects, the major economic, financial, institutional stresses and the changes in beneficiary's
 ownership, and due diligence requirements associated with such a large GEF grant. The Grant
 Agreement was administered rigorously but with enough flexibility to allow the timely
 modification in scope that was key allowing the Project to achieve a comprehensive ODS phase
 as well as providing the beneficiaries with the opportunity to maximize benefits from it. Seven
 Grant Agreement amendments and five major GEF submissions were prepared and processed.
 The procurement and disbursement management requirements of the project involved a total of
 160 separate contracts of which 15 were ICB, 5 were NCB, 23 were IS, 38 were Consultant
 Firms and 71 were individual consultants.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

 On the basis of the above, the overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory. Throughout,
 the Bank as a whole has maintained a strategic perspective of the ODS issue as reflected in cross
 communication with other regions, notably the other major ODS phase out programs
 administered by the Bank under the MPMF in China and India. Similarly the lesson's learned are
 being applied in the planning of new ODS initiatives in the region as additional priorities
 developed under the MP. At the same time, the Bank responded to the detailed supervision needs
 of this kind of operation. It also reflects the Bank providing the necessary patience and timely
 guidance respecting the needs of the client/beneficiary, particularly recognizing the institutional
 instability that existed through much of the Project implementation period.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Recipient was generally well prepared to undertake the project based on its earlier ratification of
the London Amendment and initiation of the Country Program. The creation of basic institutions



                                                 - 22 -

such as the IAC had started and the prior establishment of implementation capacity on which the
Project's PIU had been provided for.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

   The Government's implementation performance was mixed with it being satisfactory for most
   of the Project implementation period. However in the last several years, it has not provided any
   meaningful policy guidance supportive of the issue generally or in resolving administrative
   issues with the government structure. The most significant is perhaps the absence of decision
   making to date respecting ratification of later amendments to the MP and its current position as
   the last major non-Article 5 country not to do so.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

   The overall performance of the implementing agency parallels that of the Government as a
   whole with early strong commitment and proactive support for implementation, followed by a
   decline in policy engagement and presenting increasing administrative barriers. However, at
   the same time the performance of direct counterparts in the PIU which effectively became and
   remain the national capacity and focal point in this area is considered highly satisfactory.
   Through the strength of its leadership it has effectively carried on both the policy and highly
   supervision intensive aspects of the Project on behalf of the Government.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall the Recipient's implementation performance is considered unsatisfactory largely based on
the situation at closing where continuing uncertainty exist regarding its commitment to addressing
the ODS issue on a continuing basis. This is balanced by the satisfactory performance of both the
PIU and most beneficiary enterprises which are largely responsible for its successful outcomes.

8. Lessons Learned


Integration of Global and Local Objectives: The Project provides an example of successfully
integrating global environmental objectives, promoted predominately by the international
community, and local objectives involving investment in industrial modernization that must be
balanced against near term adverse social and economic impacts that its implementation might
entail. The key factor necessary to achieve this integration is a broad policy level understanding of
these objectives within the Government and the responsible Implementing Agency from the
beginning. The Implementing Agencies role is particularly important as they must act as the
project champion in the evitable debate on costs and benefits with the Government. A major
factor in this Project's success was that it enjoyed policy level support during its preparation and
much of its implementation period. Conversely, when this declined in the later stages of
implementation, the opportunity to fully capitalize on the opportunities offered by the Project
were not fully realized. In the context of future operations having this characteristic, the lesson
leaned is the need to develop and test the Government's understanding of and commitment to the
global objective at the outset and as well as its ability sustain this through periods where the
balance between local costs and benefits may be disputed. As in this in this case, the Bank can



                                                 - 23 -

play an important role in achieving this understanding and commitment through proactive and
regular engagement with the Government on the global environmental issues as well providing
guidance on how to practically benefit from international assistance.

Project Design Flexibility: A principle lesson learned from this Project is the value of flexible
project design which has the ability to capture lessons learned as implementation proceeds and
adjust the project scope to accommodate these. It effectively allows both counterparts and the
Bank to feedback what they are learning into the management of project implementation such that
outcomes against objectives can be optimized. The tranched structure of the project with a well
defined process of work program approval and amendment is well suited to do this and represents
a useful model for projects with large, complex and potentially open ended investment sub-project
portfolios. In this case it allowed the accommodation of the impacts of market driven industrial
restructuring, the integration of ODS production and consumption phase out and expansion of the
project scope to address residual ODS consumption as well as mitigate associated social and
economic impacts, all of which were fundamental to the Project's successful outcome.

Resources for Preparation and Appraisal: This Project underlines the importance of the quality
of preparation and appraisal in being able to deliver the integrated global environmental and local
objectives in a cost effective manner. Such projects will involve the implementation of a diverse
portfolio of technically complex investment sub-projects, each of which must be tested for
eligibility against international standards and as well for economic viability and sustainability. This
Project generally enjoyed good access to the resources and capacity to effectively undertake these
tasks task, first through bilateral support in developing Country Program and subsequently within
the framework design of the project itself. This was key factor in achieving a comprehensive result
in terms of ODS phase out with a high level of success in terms of enterprise sustainability and
cost effectiveness.

PIU Structure, Influence, Capacity and Engagement: The experience with the development and
operation of the Project's PIU offers useful lessons, both positive and negative. On the positive
side, the Project demonstrates the value of a well resourced and experienced PIU, capable of
relatively independent action while, at the same time, remaining engaged and influential within the
Implementing Agency and Government generally. This is considered essential to implement
complex projects where policy level decision making and support, as well as a large number of
routine transactions and technical decisions are required. The negative lessons essentially involve
the converse of this, namely the difficulty any PIU will have in implementing such projects where
the Implementing Agency exercises excessive detailed control over day to day implementation,
while abdicating its role related to championing the Project and providing timely policy direction
and support to the PIU.
With respect to lessons related to the Bank wide issue of whether to promote PIU capacity
independent of or being a part of the government structure, this experience argues more in favor
of operationally independent PIU closely associated with and directly reporting to a leading
Implementing Agency. Transformation of the PIU into one of a regular MNR legal entities which
has taken place for the final period of the project proved to be counterproductive. Ultimately, the
selection of PIU structure should be a project specific decision         that balances the capacity
available, stability and commitment of the responsible implementing agency, the degree to which



                                                 - 24 -

independence of authority would be available and the level at which the PIU would report.

Enterprise Commitment and Contribution: The Project demonstrates a strong correlation
between enterprise commitment and the ultimate success of investment sub-projects.               One
measure of this is the financial contribution that it commits and more importantly the timeliness of
fulfilling that commitment. The most successful sub-projects were those where the enterprise has
made a significant contribution and this has been scheduled to match GEF financed investment
such that they are integrated into the sub-project project in a timely manner, typically in having
infrastructure prepared for GEF financed equipment upon delivery. The exception to this are the
refrigeration servicing sub-projects were the nature of the enterprises inherently limits their direct
contribution ability but where the key factor is the coordination of training and equipment
delivery, something that itself requires significant enterprise commitment of staff. The few
problematic sub-projects all involved enterprises who limited and/or delayed their contributions,
often because of change in ownership, instability and restructuring with their organizations. This
suggests that a strong emphasis needs to be placed on establishing meaningful levels of enterprise
contribution at sub-project appraisal and in conditioning the disbursement of grant funding to
delivery of enterprise preparatory work and investment. At the same time, it should be recognized
that there are changes such as changes in ownership which are beyond control of the Bank and the
beneficiary.

Supervision Intensity of Large Investment Portfolios: This Project provides an example of the
supervision intensive nature of operations involving multiple, technically diverse and complex
investment sub-projects as well as supporting technical assistance. This is particularly true where
grant based financing is governed by strict eligibility requirements and Bank due diligence
obligations related to safety and appropriate use of donor funds. In this case, the Project involved
a Grant Agreement with 7 amendments, thirty one sub-grant agreements some with amendments,
160 procurement contracts, 15 sub-project ICRs and 9 safety audits. While supervision resources
were mostly adequate in this case, development of future projects of this nature should ensure that
this requirement is recognized.

Sustaining Government Commitment: This Project provides insight into the general issue of
sustaining government commitment. From a positive perspective, the vision of the Government
and the responsible implementing agency in its formative stages were fundamental to its success.
On the negative side, the gradual decline in this commitment generally prolonged the project and
caused lost opportunities to maximize its benefits, created uncertainty about sustainability of the
institutional results, and effectively required additional efforts by the Bank to properly complete it.
While addressing the systemic problem that is the basic cause in this case is largely beyond the
control of any one project, the Bank should look for ways to entrench the initial and fully tested
commitment at the outset, and mechanisms that will at least keep the Government focused on its
implementation and completion. This would require more precision in requiring meaningful
government financial contribution to be committed at the outset. This could include specific
resource allocation requirements for the permanent institutional structures necessary to support
the regulatory and administrative obligations that succeed the project and checks on the natural
tendency to attempt to use international assistance as budget replacement resources. Where the
basis of the project is a broad national program, the generally declarative resource commitments



                                                 - 25 -

assigned to Government in it should be linked into the Government's obligations under the project
as should be the maintenance of inter-agency supervisory mechanisms assigned to oversee such
programs. Similarly, any issues such as the application of exemptions for taxes and import duties
should be defined at the outset to avoid ongoing administrative impediments to project
implementation. It is recommended that these kinds of measures be included as Grant Agreement
conditionality with meaningful performance based tests linked to the continuation of disbursement
and their eligibility being applied in its administration.

Prospects of Future Global Environmental Initiatives: The results of this Project, while positive
also raise some question about future prospects of future initiatives of this type in Russia. It is
generally accepted that significant scope for such initiatives exists. Related to ODS, Russia
potentially qualifies for international assistance in support of implementation of latter amendments
of the Montreal Protocol and those which are likely as additional chemicals are added as
controlled substances. This includes transitional substances (HCFCs), methyl bromide, feed stocks
and process agents where Russia remains a significant global consumer and in some cases
producer. It also extends to the broader management of chemicals on a global basis such as
persistent organic pollutants and heavy metals where Russia has major legacies and potential
global impacts. The results of this Project send a mixed message to the international community
on the country's interest in such future initiatives. While the completed Project is one of the most
successful and cost effective ODS phase out initiatives undertaken to date with international
support, the fact that it has not fully utilized resources available to it and the Government is not
aggressively pursuing follow up initiatives raises the question of whether there is interest in
further international support. Consistent with above point related to developing government
commitment to global environmental objectives, the Bank could use the experience with this
Project in engaging the country in a dialogue on this point and its future interests.

In summary, a variety of both detailed and strategic lessons can be drawn from the Project in the
context of undertaking future loan and/or based environmental investment operations as noted
above. Perhaps principle among these is that project design should be made as robust and flexible
as possible to sustain major external shocks that are the rule in CEITs, where institutional
instability and the impacts of rapid and unpredictable market economy transition is occurring. It
should also be recognized that such operations may be of relatively long duration as evidenced in
this case where more than the originally planned 5 years was required. Finally, continuity of the
core project implementation team, both on the Bank and PIU side was a key stabilizing factor in
this Project and one of the important pre-requisites of the project success. Overall, the Project
should be considered as a major accomplishment for both the Bank and Government, taking into
account the significant global environmental impact it generated, particularly considering the scale
of changes in economic, financial and institutional setup in the country, changes in the industrial
sector, and its technical and political complexity. Under these circumstances, having just one
failed sub-project among a portfolio of 36 investments is an outstanding result.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                  - 26 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Phaseout of primary ODS in high              Primary phase out in all primary consumers      Final Project phase out consumption (last
consumption sectors. 1996 consumption -      except one was achieved by December 31,         year of ODS use) - 8,968 MT. Residual
15,000 MT. 9,122 MT appraised target.        2001.                                           ODS consumption - < 1000 MT (estimated)
Provision of grant funding of enterprise     Grant funding directed to the consumer          As at last PSR.
investments to conversion technologies.      aerosol, commercial refrigeration,              Technology transfer opportunities remain in
                                             non-insulating foam and refrigeration           the solvent, medical aerosol and fire
                                             servicing sectors. Used for conversion to       protection sectors and could have benefited
                                             modern competitive non-ODS technology.          from unused GEF resources.
Establishment of sustainable legal and       Basic legal and regulatory system covering      As at last PSR except assignment of long
regulatory framework for effective ODS       international reporting, import/export control, term responsibility to new environmental
control system in Russia.                    licensing in place.                             service outside MNR.
                                             No assigned responsibility in MNR for its
                                             administration.
Mitigated economic and social impacts        All but three sub-projects are assessed as      As at last PSR
associated with the elimination of ODS.      viable, and are sustaining or expanding         Refrigeration servicing investment providing
                                             employment that would have otherwise like       geographical coverage to 50% of the country.
                                             have been lost without Project support.         Residual ODS demand declining rapidly than
                                             Residual ODS phase out in the refrigeration     anticipated due to equipment replacement
                                             servicing sector is progressing.                and use of drop in substitutes.
Permanent Closure of Annex A and B ODS       Production ceased by December 2000 at           Continued permanent closure at all seven
production. Target production capacity       seven producing enterprises. The facilities     enterprises was re-confirmed by Bank
140,000 MT. Last years production  28,974 were permanently closed occurred in June          monitoring visits in July 2004. Remaining
MT.                                          2001 eliminating 140,000 MT of capacity.        inventories of banked ODS anticipated to be
                                             Closure was formally verified by the Bank in    eliminated at the end of 2005. Direct phase
                                             July 2002, and confirmed by a monitoring        out of actual ODS production attributable to
                                             mission in June 2003.                           the Project's contribution - 8,204 MT.
Russia meeting its ODS consumption           Russia was in compliance with its obligations Per last PSR
phase-out obligations under the Montreal     under the London Amendment by December Country maintaining active participation as a
Protocol                                     31, 2000 with the cessation of Annex A and      Party to the Montreal Protocol.
                                             B ODS production and substantive primary        Current initiative in Government to ratify latter
                                             consumption elimination by December 31,         Amendments of the Montreal Protocol.
                                             2001 in the originally targeted consumer
                                             aerosol and refrigeration sectors.
Access to financial resources needed for     Enterprise Contribution Estimated at            Final Enterprise contribution: US$24.3 million
ODS consumption phase-out from a range of US$23.0 million.                                   Bilateral Assistance:
international and domestic sources. Original                                                 USTDA = US$250,000
Enterprise/Government Contribution                                                           Danish Refrigeration Servicing investment =
=US$44.3 million. Appraised Enterprise                                                       US$1.1 million,
Contribution =US$23.5 million.                                                               Trade Financing = 40 million DM
                                                                                             No Government contribution recorded.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Investment Component                                      5.64            5.64             100
    1.1 First Tranche
  1.2 Second Tranche                                        16.39          17.21              105
  1.3 Third Tranche                                         19.38          17.45               90
ODS Production Closure                                       7.75            7.79             101
Technical Assistance                                         2.76            2.65             100
PIU Costs                                                    1.26            1.63            1.29

Total Baseline Cost                                         53.18          52.37
                        Total Project Costs                 53.18          52.37
                  Total Financing Required                  53.18          52.37


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          31.60             0.00        33.70         5.70         71.00
                                 (27.90)           (0.00)      (28.60)        (0.00)      (56.50)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         1.00         29.30        30.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         1.00         0.00          1.00
Consulting Services/              (0.00)           (0.00)       (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
Technical Assistance
3.1. Institutional
Strengthening
3.2 Training                       0.00             0.00         0.30         0.00          0.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.30)
3.3 Project Implementation         0.00             0.00         1.70         0.00          1.70
Support                           (0.00)           (0.00)       (1.70)        (0.00)       (1.70)
   Total                          31.60             0.00        37.70         35.00        104.30
                                 (27.90)           (0.00)      (32.10)        (0.00)      (60.00)
Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by GEF
Notes:
a)      Includes US$32.3 million in IS and US$1.4 million in NS
b)      Includes US$1.0 million in NCB
c)      According to IBRD Guidelines for Consultant Selection
d)      To be financed by enterprise using local commercial practice
e)      Includes PIU support expenditures




                                                - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              4.20             13.10            17.30
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)              ()             (0.00)
2. Goods                                28.20              0.00              7.20             7.30             42.70
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)              ()             (0.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.70                               0.70
Consulting Services/                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)              ()             (0.00)
Technical Assistance
3.1. Institutional
Strengthening
3.2 Training                            0.00               0.00              0.30             0.20              0.50
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3.3 Project Implementation              0.00               0.00              4.60             2.60              7.20
Support                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                28.20              0.00             17.00             23.20            68.40
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
Notes:
a)      Includes US$7.0 million in IS and US$0.3 million in NS
b)      Entirely NCB
c)      GEF Funded Technical Assistance according to IBRD Guidelines for Consultant Selection
d)      Financed by enterprise using local commercial practice
e)      Includes PIU support expenditures
f)      All GEF Financed
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


No economic analysis of the project estimated at appraisal.




                                              - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 1995            1    Ozone Operations Coordinator
              Oct. -Nov. 1995           4    Senior Environmental Engineer,
                                             Ozone Operations Coordinator,
                                             Environmental Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant

 Supervision
              June 1997                 3    Senior Environmental
                                             Engineer, Environmental
                                             Specialist, Technical
                                             Consultant
              December 1997             3    Senior Environmental Engineer,
                                             Environmental Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant
              June-July 1998            4    Environmental Specialist,
                                             Procurement Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant, Consultant
              December 1998             2    Environmental Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant
              April 1999                3    Environmental Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant, Consultant
              November 1999             4    Senior Environmental
                                             Economist, Senior
                                             Environmental Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant, Consultant
              Jan.-Feb. 2000            4    Senior Environmental Specialist,     S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist,
                                             Technical Consultant,
                                             ConsultantLTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              Sept.-Oct. 2000           5    Senior Environmental Specialist,
                                             Procurement Officer, Financial
                                             Management Officer, Technical
                                             Consultant, Consultant
              July 2001                 4    Senior Environmental Specialist,     S               S
                                             Procurement Officer, Technical
                                             Consultant, Consultant
              Oct.-Nov. 2001            3    Senior Environmental Specialist,     S               S
                                             Technical Consultant, Consultant
              May 2002                  3    Environmental Specialist,            S               S
                                             Technical Consultant, Consultant
              Sep. 2002-Feb.            7    Senior Environmental Specialist,     U               S
              2003                           Technical Consultant,
                                             Consultant, two Procurement
                                             Specialists, Financial



                                              - 32 -

                                            Management Specialist, Program
                                            Assistant
               June 2003                4   Senior Environmental Specialist,     U          S
                                            Technical Consultant,
                                            Consultant, Program Assistant
               Oct.-Dec. 2003           3   Environmental Specialist,            S          S
                                            Technical Consultant, Consultant
               Jan.-March 2004          3   Environmental Specialist,
                                            Technical Consultant, Consultant

 ICR
               June 2004               3     Senior Environmental                S          S
                                             Specialist, Technical
                                             Consultant, Consultant


    Performance Rating

   Date (month, year)             Development Objectives           Implementation Progress


   March, 2000                                 S                             S
   June, 2001                                  S                             S
   September, 2001                             S                             S
   January, 2002                               S                             S
   June, 2002                                  S                             S
   March, 2003                                 S                             U
   July, 2003                                  S                             U
   December, 2003                              S                             S
   June, 2004                                  S                             S


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                             - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Preparation Documents:

"Phase out of Ozone Depleting Substances in Russia", Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural
Resources/Danish Environmental Protection Agency, August 1994.
"Resolution on Priority Measures to Ensure Compliance with the Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer
Protection and Montreal Protocol on Ozone Depleting Substances", Resolution No. 526 of the Government
of the Russian Federation, May 1995.
"Assistance for Project Preparation, Aerosol and Refrigeration Sectors", Centre for Project Preparation
and Implementation/COWIconsult, January 1996.
"Plans for Production Closure in the Russian Federation" Arthur D. Little, May 1999

Appraisal Documents

"Global Environment Facility, Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-out Project, Project
Document", The World Bank, Report No. 15326-RU, May 1996 (includes 1st Tranche sub-project
appraisals)
"Global Environment Facility, Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project, Project
Document": Second Tranche, The World Bank, Report No. 17391-RU, February 1998 (includes 2and
Tranche sub-project appraisals)
"Global Environment Facility, Russian Federation Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project, Project
Document": Third Tranche, The World Bank, Report No. 18973-RU, May 1999.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Altaivitimany", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Iceberg", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Kemerovotorgtekhnika", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Nelidovo Plastics Plant", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Plastik", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Pyatigorsktorgtekhnika", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Stroidetal", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Combine Torgtekhnika", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "TiL", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Third Tranche Appraisal Report, JSC "Holodmash", ANO CPPI Ozone Division, April 2000.
"Residual ODS Phase Out Management Component Appraisal Report, ANO CPPI Ozone Division,
August 2001.
"Project Appraisal Document: Special Initiative for ODS Production Closure in the Russian Federation";
Report No 20038-RU, World Bank, March 2000.

Legal Agreements

GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, GEF Trust Fund TF028314, September 1996, as amended on
December 12, 1998; September 7, 1999; February 29, 2000; May 8, 2001; October 2, 2002; December 18,
2002 and January 12, 2004.

(Insert list of Sub-Grant Agreements)

Completion Documents




                                                  - 36 -

Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Arnest", CPPI Ozone Division/DHV CIS, January
2002.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Chimprom", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, June
2004. (Note: This is a Draft. My Files indicate that no final version submitted)
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Harmonia", CPPI Ozone Division/DHV CIS,
September 2002.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Mariholodmash", CPPI Ozone Division/DHV CIS,
September 2002.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Sibir, FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, May 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Sibir, FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, May 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Sibir", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, January 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Plastik, FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, June 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Stroidetal", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, June 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Combine Torgtekhnika", FCGS Ecologia /DHV
CIS, April 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Iceberg", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, January
2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Kemerovotorgtekhnika", FCGS Ecologia /DHV
CIS, April 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Pyatigorsktorgtekhnika", FCGS Ecologia /DHV
CIS, April 2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Holodmash", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, January
2004.
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Nelidovo Plastics Plant", FCGS Ecologia /DHV
CIS, April 2004. (Note: This is a Draft. My Files indicate that no final version submitted)
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "TiL", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, June 2004.
(Note: This is an incomplete Draft. My Files indicate that no final version submitted)
Sub-Project Implementation Completion Report, JSC "Residual ODS Phase Out Management
Component", FCGS Ecologia /DHV CIS, June 2004.




                                                  - 37 -

- 38 -

