GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
*  -~t -                       /53246
Russian Federation -
. Ozone Depleting SubstancedConsumption
Phase-out Project
Project Document
>May 1996
THE WORLD BANK.



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas:.global warming. pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme.the United Nations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 15326-RU
Russian Federation
Ozone Depleting Substance
Consumption Phase-Out Project
Project Document
May 1996
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Figures are as of end of month)
Currency Unit = Ruble (RB)         Rubles US Dollar
December 1991                        169
December 1992                        415
December 1993                      1,247
December 1994                      3,550
December 1995                      4,640
Grantee's Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES CONVERSIONS
Metric System                     US System
1 meter (m)           =           3.2808 feet
I kilometer (km)      =           0.6214 mile
1 square meter (m2)               1. 196 square yards
I metric ton (ton)    =           1.102 short tons
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CFC      Chlorofluorocarbon              MEPNR  Ministry of Environmental Protection
and Natural Resources
CPPI    Center for Project Preparation and  MFMP   Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation                          Implementation of the Montreal
Protocol
CTC      Carbon Tetrachloride            MLN      Million
EA       Environmental Assessment        MP       Montreal Protocol on Substances that
Deplete the Ozone Layer
EMP      Environmental Management        MT       Metric Ton
Project
FSU      Former Soviet Union             NPAF    National Pollution Abatement
Facility
HAP      Hydrocarbon Aerosol Propellant   ODP     Ozone Depleting Potential
HCFC    Hydrochlorofluorocarbon          ODS      Ozone Depleting Substances
HFC      Hydrofluorocarbon               ODS      Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-
PIU      Out Implementation Unit
GEF      Global Environmental Facility   OORG    Ozone Operations Resource Group
GET      Global Environmental Trust Fund   OTF    Ozone Projects Trust Fund
ICB      International Competitive Bidding  PPA   Project Preparation Advance
IS       International Shopping          SA       Special Account
LPG      Liquefied Petroleum Gas         STAP    Scientific and Technical Advisory
Panel
MCF      Methyl Chloroform               TA       Technical Assistance



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART 1:    PROJECT SUMMA1ZY
I.    Country Sector Background ...1.........................
II.    ODS Phase-Out Strategy ...........................3
III.   Project Objective ...........................5
IV.   Project Description ............................5
V.    Project Cost and Financing ...9........................9
VI.   Project Implementation Arrangements ........................... 11
VII.  Project Sustainability ........................... 14
VIII. Lessons from Previous Bank Experience .14
IX.  Rationale for Bank and GEF Involvement .15
X. Project Benefits .17
XI.   Project Risks and Mitigation Measures .17
XII. Environmental Aspects .18
XIII. Actions to be Agreed .19
Schedule A   Project Costs and Financing Plan
Schedule B   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Schedule C   Key Project Processing Events
Schedule D   Status of Bank Group Operations in the Russian Federation
PART 2:    TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Annex 1     Project Implementation Responsibilities
Annex 2     Technical Annex: Part I - Aerosol and Refrigeration Sector Background
Technical Annex: Part 2 - First Tranche Sub-project Descriptions
Technical Annex: Part 3 - Second and Third Tranche Sub-projects
Technical Annex: Part 4 - Technical Assistance Component
Annex 3     Russian Federation ODS Phase-Out Strategy and Policy Commitments
Annex 4     Sub-Project Selection Criteria
MAP         IBRD No. 27740






PART 1: PROJECT SUMMARY






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recipient:          Russian Federation
Executing Agency:   Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
(MEPNR)
Beneficiaries:      MEPNR and Enterprises using Ozone Depleting Substances
Project       Tranche 1
(US$ million)   (US$ million)
Financing Plan:
Enterprise               44.3            12.7
Contribution
GEF Grant                60.0            8.6
On lending Terms:       Grant
Economic Rate of Return:  N/A
Poverty Category:        N/A
1     Incremental capital investments exclusive of incremental operating cost.






- 1 -
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
l. COUNTRY SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.      General recognition of upper atmosphere ozone depletion and its global impacts in the
mid-1980's has led to a substantial international effort in phasing out various substances that deplete
2
stratospheric ozone . This effort includes the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone
Layer (1985) and the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (1987) (MP).
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) whose production and use is regulated by the MP include
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons, several halogenated solvents, and a class of transitional
chemicals known as hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs). The MP has been ratified by more than
150 countries accounting for over 95 per cent of global consumption of ODS. It initially set 2000
as the target phase-out date for developed countries and gave a 10-year grace period for developing
countries. Further recognition that ozone depletion is occurring more rapidly than first anticipated
has led to two protocol amendments which add regulated materials and accelerate phase-out. The
London Amendment in June, 1990 added the two solvents, methyl chloroform (MCF) and carbon
tetrachloride (CTC), as well as tightening the phase-out schedule. The Copenhagen Amendment in
November, 1992 further accelerated phase-out and added transitional substitute materials (HCFCs)
and methyl bromide as regulated substances. The current developed country phase-out date for
CFCs, MCF, and CTC was January 1996 and January 1994 for halons. Production levels of
HCFCS were frozen as of January 1996 with progressive reduction to phase-out in 2030.
2.      Most developed countries have made good progress in eliminating ODS.  New
consumption phase-out should have been effectively completed by the January, 1996 deadline.
Progress in developing countries is also progressing and many countries will likely be phased out
by about 2000. Complete phase-out in India and China, the major developing country producers
and consumers of ODS, will extend beyond this date, but should occur ahead of the current
developing world deadline of 2010. The only major producers and consumers of ODS making
slow progress toward ODS phase-out are the countries of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). The
FSU ratified the MP in November, 1988 as a developed country. The Russian Federation continues
the FSU membership in the Protocol and ratified the London Amendments in January, 1992.
However, ratification of the Copenhagen Amendments has not occurred. Based on its ratification
2    The ozone layer forms a thin shield in the stratosphere protecting flora and fauna from the sun's harmful ultra violet
radiation. Ozone layer thinning can cause impacts such as increased skin cancer incidence, eye cataracts, decreased
plant productivity, and deterioration of the marine food chain. CFCs and other similar chlorinated chemicals widely
used in refrigeration, foam blowing, aerosol sprays, industrial solvents and fire protection were found to be causing
ozone layer destruction. These chemicals also have significant global warming potential.



status as a developed country under the MP, Russia's obligations for ODS phase-out are in
accordance with the accelerated developed country schedule (halons - January 1994, and CFC,
CTC and MTC - January 1996). This status also carries a requirement for contributions to the
Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (MFMP), which has been
created to provide financial support to eligible developing countries in meeting their MP
obligations. Furthermore, Russia is obligated to stop exports of ODS to countries which are not
parties to the MP. Russia is the sole producer of ODS among the countries of the FSU, although
feedstocks in the form of CTC is supplied to Russian CFC producers from Ukraine. In effect, the
republics of the FSU are currently dependent on Russian supplies, such as essential coolants for
refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. Of these countries, Belarus, Ukraine, Uzbekistan and
Turkmenistan are the only ones to have ratified the MP and only Turkmenistan has ratified the
London Amendment
3.     Russia is one of the world's largest producers and consumers of ODS. In 1990 when
production peaked, it was estimated that 198,000 MT was produced, accounting for between 15 -
20% of world production. In 1992, Russian ODS production had fallen by 26% to 146,500 MT
(including 21,000 MT HCFC and 59,000 MT CTC). This production supplies 100% of the
domestic market, as well as the requirements of the countries of the FSU, and other export markets
that continue to exist. Russian domestic consumption also peaked in 1990 at approximately 70,000
MT and had fallen in 1992 by 40% to 48,365 MT (equivalent to 44,114 MT ozone depleting
potential (ODP) ) which amounts to an annual ODP weighted per capita consumption of 0.3 kg.
Based on 1992 data, five sectors account for Russia's ODS use: aerosols (46%), refrigeration and
air-conditioning (27%), fire protection (14%), foams (11%) and solvents (2%). Current data on
ODS production and consumption are not complied in a consolidated form, but it is apparent that
reductions in ODS consumption and production continue to occur. This is primarily due to the
current economic conditions and to voluntary conversions that are occurring in the aerosol and
refrigeration sectors, where limited progress has been made in committing the investments in
technological change necessary to sustain phase-out. However, it is also observed that ODS
consumption is starting to increase among some consumers in the aerosol and refrigeration sectors.
Uncontrolled exports of ODS materials originating in Russia is also becoming an issue of concern
In summary, the current developed country phase-out time table as mandated by the MP is
unrealistic for Russia and it will not be able to meet its MP phase-out obligations.



- 3 -
H. ODS PHASE-OUT STRATEGY
5.     Development of an ODS Phase-Out Country Program describing an achievable phase-out
program was completed in August 1994 with Danish support and Bank input. Assuming
international financial assistance is available, the Country Program targets ODS phase-out for 1999,
somewhat ahead of the London Amendment schedule (January 2000), but slower than the
Copenhagen Amendment schedule (January 1996). Production would be phased out consistent
with domestic consumption phase-out schedules, and phase-out in countries of the FSU to which
Russia is the sole supplier, particularly Ukraine and Belarus. GEF-funded Project preparation work
in the aerosol and refrigeration sectors has identified a wide range of candidate sub-projects, from
which those included in this Project have been selected. Bilaterally funded Project preparation
work is underway in the solvent, foam and fire protection sectors, and is being considered in the
refrigeration servicing sector. The Bank is also developing a production phase-out project directed
at consolidation and closure of Russian ODS producing facilities, along with development of ODS
substitute production.
6.     A position paper summarizing the Russian Country Program and phase-out strategy has
been prepared by the Ministry of Enviromnental Protection and Natural Resources (MEPNR) and
was submitted to the May 1995 meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol (the Parties). This
Country Program has since been formally adopted by the government with the issuing of a
Government Resolution that provides a legal basis for its implementation. While considered in
compliance with the control measures of the MP in 1995, Russia has acknowledged that it will be
in a non-compliance position beginning in 1996 and has conveyed its commitment to ODS phase-
out as set out in the Country program to the Secretariat of the Vienna Convention and Montreal
Protocol. It has also resumed formal reporting of ODS consumption, production and trade as
required under its obligations to the MP. At the November 1995 meeting of the Parties, Russia
agreed to provide additional information relating to the country's political commitment,
implementation progress, and enforcement measures, particularly in regard to trade regulations. An
agreement was also reached between Russia and the Parties on issues associated with exports.
Russia's export of ODS to other supply dependent countries in the FSU after January, 1996 would
be accommodated on a transitional basis, conditional on it also taking the necessary action to ensure
no re-export takes place from these countries. Russia has agreed to comply fully with the overall
export ban requirements of the MP to other countries.



7.        Following the meeting of the parties to the MP in Vienna in November 1995, and
pursuant to the letter dated January 5, 1996 from the Ozone Secretariat, Russia provided the
following information:
a)   confirTn the political commitment on the phase-out plan for ozone depleting
substances by the Russian Federation;
b)   Define necessary linkages between the sectoral approach outlined by the Russian
Federation in its submission and the specific requirements for the financial,
institutional and administrative arrangements towards the implementation of such
measures;
c)   Outline the gradual achievement of the proposed phase-out plan; and
d)   Define the proposed measures for the enforcement of the phase-out plan; in
particular the enforcement of the trade regulations.
8.     Russia is expected to be a developed country contributor to the Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (MFMP). While no contributions have been made to
date, the Russian Government has undertaken to resolve its current arrears position and fully
address its obligations when its economic conditions improve. Annex 3 contains the Country
Program position paper, and Government Resolution confirming adoption of the country program
phase-out strategy.
9.      Russia has established the basic institutional structure to support the implementation of
the proposed ODS phase-out program as defined in the Country Program. An Inter-Agency
C*ommission for the phase-out of ODS has been created to coordinate ODS policy among all
relevant government agencies utilizing specific subcomrnissions dealing with legal, technical,
economic/institutional, and monitoring aspects. Responsibility for ODS phase-out activities has
been assigned to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Protection (MEPNR).
Initially an ODS Task Force was established by ministerial decree within the MEPNR, to act as
Secretariat of the Commission.  Subsequently this role along with overall implementation
responsibility for both institutional and investment aspects of the Country Program have been
assigned to the Center for Project Preparation and Implementation (CPPI).
10.     In order to support the Country Program, substantial investment in replacement facilities
and technology is required for conversion from ODS use and production of non-ODS substitutes.
Additional costs and associated social impacts will be incurred with the shutdown of the country's
substantial ODS production capability. Russia will require substantial external financial assistance
to undertake investments for ODS phase-out as outlined in the Country Program. As a developed
country signatory to the MP, it is not eligible for assistance from the MFMP. However, it is
eligible for Global Environmnental Facility (GEF) funding, for which the Bank acts as an
implementing agency.



- 5 -
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
11.      The overall objective of the Project is to assist Russia in the phase-out of ODS
consumption, in a manner consistent with international efforts in the field, while ensuring that this
is accomplished with the minimum of economic dislocation. The Project's more specific objectives
are: i) to allow Russia to credibly initiate meeting its ODS consumption phase-out obligations
under the MP within a realistic time frarne; ii) to facilitate access to financial resources needed for
ODS consumption phase-out from a range of international and domestic sources; iii) to provide
necessary technical assistance and institutional strengthening; iv) to fund enterprise specific
investrnents in critical high consumption sectors; and v) to ensure that ODS phase-out activities
accommodate economic and social impacts that may result.
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
12.      This Project is the first GEF funding operation for ODS phase-out in Russia. It targets
priority ODS consumption phase-out activities in the aerosol and refrigeration sectors, along with
the provision of modest technical assistance at both the institutional and enterprise levels to
facilitate and accelerate Country Prograrn implementation. It is structured as a framework project
for a total GEF grant amount of US$60.0 million. The Project consist of: (i) an investment
component to finance some 21 sub-projects for ODS phase-out in the aerosol and refrigeration
sectors amounting to a total grant of US$ 57 million; (ii) a technical assistance component to
strengthen project implementation and institutional capacity (US$ 1.3 million); and (iii) a sub-grant
processing component (US$ 1.7 million). The proposed investment sub-projects are summarized in
Schedule A - Table Al, along with their cost estimates. The total capital investment for these sub-
projects is US$101.3 million. The individual sub-projects have been selected by the MEPNR with
World Bank assistance from those candidate sub-projects in the aerosol and refrigeration sectors
identified through work undertaken under a GEF Project Preparation Advance. The agreed criteria
for their selection and prioritization is provided in Annex 4. The selected sub-projects have been
reviewed and approved as suitable for appraisal by the Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG)
established under the MFMP to provide technical advice on technology selection.
13.      The framework Project will be processed in three tranches as funds are approved by the
GEF Council. The first tranche3 (US$8.6 million) covers two investment sub-projects, one in each
of the aerosol (US$5.65 million) and refrigeration (US$1.976 million) sectors, as well as a technical
assistance (TA) component (US$ 0.748 million) designed to strengthen Project implementation and
institutional capability, and a sub-grant processing component (US$0.226 million). The first
3      The first tranche was approved by the GEF Council in May 1995, on the basis of two aerosol sector sub-projects
(JSC Arnest and JSC Halogen). However, prior to appraisal JSC Halogen indicated they were not ready for
appraisal of their project. As a consequence, a well prepared refrigeration sector sub-project at JSC Krasnoyarsk
Refrigerator Plant has been substituted.



- 6 -
tranche was approved by the GEF Council in May 1995. Appraisal of the first tranche investment
sub-projects and the TA component was completed in November 1995. The second tranche
(US$35.0 million) covers six remaining aerosol and five representative refrigeration sub-projects.
This tranche was approved by the GEF Council in April 1996. The third tranche (US$16.4 million)
will cover all remaining domestic refrigeration sub-projects and an initial refrigeration servicing
sub-project. These will be proposed for GEF Council approval once implementation of the first
two tranche sub-projects have been initiated. The Project addresses the two largest consuming
sectors, aerosol and domestic refrigeration, plus one sub-project in the commercial refrigeration
sector. It effectively provides for complete phase-out of ODS consumption in the commercial and
industrial aerosol sector, and will complete phase-out in the major and most cosmetic viable
domestic refrigeration manufacturers. Future GEF and donor funded projects may follow to
address remaining ODS consumption in the industrial/commercial refrigeration, refrigeration
servicing, solvent, foarn and fire protection sectors. This will be dictated by the availability of
financial resources and long term viability of enterprises in these sectors. The Bank is also assisting
the Government on a parallel initiative related to ODS production phase-out, which involves the
setting up of a separate funding facility to be financed through bilateral contributions.
14.     Aerosol Sector ODS consumption in the form of CFC propellants in Russia likely
represents the largest and most cost effective single consurnption phase-out opportunity in the
world today. The Russian Federation has an established aerosol industry that continues to consume
large quantities of CFCs. The CFC aerosols (78% of total aerosols) are strongly favored by the
cosmetic industry and are selling readily even in a suppressed economy. In 1992, consumption of
CFCs by the aerosol industry totaled 18,150 MT, approximately 46% of the total ODS consumned in
Russia. Of this total 17, 908 MT were consumed in cosmetics and industrial applications with the
remaining being used in pharmaceutical applications. Since that time, one major aerosol producer
(Chilton) has undertaken conversion to non-ODS propellants using its own resources, resulting in
an overall decline in consunption. However, those continuing to use CFCs have generally
maintained consumption despite economic conditions, with the most recent trends indicating that
consumption is again rising. Sub-projects are proposed within the overall Project framework to
eliminate ODS consumption at all seven major current ODS users producing commercial and
industrial aerosol products. The beneficiary enterprises accounted for 85% of the ODS used in the
aerosol sector in 1992. Based on 1994 consumption figures, 13,121 MT will be phased out by the
overall Project with 2,456 MT, and 10,665 MT being achieved through the first, and second
tranches respectively. Phase-Out in the aerosol sector is efficient and cost effective with low unit
abatement costs. With one exception, where mechanical pumps are proposed (Altaichimprom), all
sub-projects utilize hydrocarbon aerosol propellant (HAP) as a replacement for CFC propellant in
common aerosol sprays. HAP is a purified form of liquid petroleum gas (LPG). The technology
for use of HAP propellants has developed globally since 1980 and is readily available.



- 7 -
While current Russian HAP production capacity is limited, investment projects to add capacity
have been initiated in direct response to the demand created by these conversions. It is anticipated
that additional supply will be added rapidly as further demand develops. Excess capacity also
exists in several neighboring European countries.
15.       The first tranche sub-project at JSC Arnest involves the elimination of 2,456 MT of CFC
consumption in a 40 million can/year facility. The required investment involves replacement of its
valve manufacturing facility, conversion of filling lines to HAP; provision for HAP purification
facilities, and supporting infrastructure to store and handle highly flammable HAP. The enterprise's
existing can-making facilities will not be replaced. A dedicated supply of HAP has been identified
and contracted for at a refinery in the region that is installing the necessary production capability.
The GEF sub-grant (US$5.7 million) serves as a key stimulus for the enterprise to invest an
additional US$10.1 million in the plant conversion. The enterprise is able to undertake its portion
of the investment out of internally generated funds, but would be unable to complete the overall
investment without GEF support. Due to the extensive preparatory work that has been undertaken
by the enterprise this phase-out can be achieved relatively quickly, with a targeted completion date
of late 1998. Annex 2, Part 2 provides a detailed description of the enterprise and sub-project based
on information obtained during appraisal.
16.       Refrigeration Sector ODS consumption of refrigerant (CFC-12, HCFC-22), foam
insulation blowing material (CFC-l 1) and solvents (CFC-1 13) was 3,594 MT/year in 1993 for the
manufacture of domestic, commercial and industrial refrigeration products. In addition, the
refrigeration servicing sector is estimated to account for an annual consumption of 4,500 MT/year.
Twelve domestic refrigerator manufacturers, four stand-alone domestic compressor producers, six
commercial refrigeration equipment manufacturers and eleven industrial refrigeration equipment
manufacturers have been identified in the overall sector. Eleven investment sub-projects (five
refrigerant and six foam) in six of the largest domestic refrigerator manufacturers have been
selected for the Project. These manufacturers accounted for 77% of ODS consumption in the
domestic refrigeration sector in 1993. In these enterprises 1,972 MT/year ODP will be phased out
based on current consumption rates. In addition, two investment sub-projects in the major
commercial refrigeration equipment manufacturer have been included in the Project. This accounts
for 68 MT/year ODP phase-out. The remaining enterprises in the domestic, commercial and
iiidustrial refrigeration sectors have not established viable phase-out investment plans and are
generally operating at low capacity. Many of these plants are expected to close down, as they are
not commercially viable.   The refrigerant  sub-projects involve the replacement of CFC-12
refrigerant with HFC-134a or, in one case, a propane/butane mixture. Use of HFC-134a4 or
The enterprise's decisions on technology are based on an in-depth analysis of commercially available technologies,
prevailing local market conditions and export potential. Consideration of emerging technology such as hydrocarbon
mixtures, was encouraged during Project preparation. A workshop was organized in Moscow to inform the
enterprises of recent developments in natural fluid refrigeration and to encourage more in-depth consideration of the
technology. At appraisal, those enterprises which are not too advanced in their engineering work for conversion will
be again provided with the opportunity to evaluate their final choice of technology through the provision of
specialized technical support. The practicality of selecting or changing to an alternative technology such as



- 8 -
hydrocarbons is a generally accepted choice for refrigerant replacement in many western countries.
HFC-134a is not currently produced in Russia, although it can readily be imported and plans for its'
production in place of CFCs are under consideration.  The foam  sub-projects involve the
replacement of CFC-l 1 insulating foam blowing agents with cyclopentane, or in one case with
HFC-134a. Cyclopentane is a globally accepted foam blowing agent substitute in refrigeration
applications, and offers equivalent long term properties to CFC-1 1 foams.
17.      The first tranche sub-project at JSC Krasnoyarsk Refrigerator Plant (KRP Biruyusa)
involves the phase-out of 117 MT/year ODP through conversion of the existing facilities from
CFC-12 refrigerant to a propane/butane hydrocarbon mixture. The investment covers the
modification of testing and charging infrastructure, conversion of the charging line for flammable
hydrocarbon use, and construction of hydrocarbon storage and handling facilities. The existing
compressor design has been demonstrated as suitable for direct substitution of a butane/propane
mixture. The GEF sub-grant (US$1.976 million) serves as a key stimulus for enterprise
contribution of a significantly larger portion of the investment (US$4.74 million). The enterprise is
able to undertake its portion of the investment out of internally generated funds, but would be
unable to complete the overall investment without GEF support. This phase out can be achieved
relatively quickly, with a targeted completion date of early 1998. Annex 2 Part 2 provides a
detailed description of the enterprise and sub-project based on information obtained at appraisal.
18.      The Technical Assistance Component will strengthen Russian institutional capacity
for ODS Phase-Out, and provide implementation support for the Project's investment activities.
This will supplement current resources available within the MEPNR, including those available
through the World Bank's Environmental Management Project (EMP). The technical assistance
component of the Project has been allocated a total funding of US$1.3 million. The first tranche
TA component of US$748,000 has four sub-components covering the following key activities: i)
development and implementation of the comprehensive policy and regulatory framework for ODS
phase-out, including sector specific bans, licensing and tax measures (US$200,000); ii)
establishment of an effective system for monitoring if ODS production, consumption, recycling and
phase-out investment in Russia (US$190,000); iii) supplementary sub-project preparation support
to respond to gaps in existing preparation information (US$180,000); iv) strengthening of sub-
project appraisal and implementation capacity within the CPPI and beneficiary enterprises through
provision of training, and appraisal guidance documentation (US$ 100,00); and v) development of a
public awareness and information program (US$78,000). The balance (US$552,000) of the TA
component has been allocated to the second tranche to assist the six major ODS producers to
evaluate different technology options for production of ODS substitute materials. Having recently
reached agreements with these producers on compensation packages for ODS production phase-
out, this assistance is now an urgent priority. Annex 2, Part 4 provides a more detailed description
of the TA component.
hydrocarbon will be assessed in relation to: (i.) the amount of preinvestment already committed to a particular
technology, (ii.) the time and additional investment required to change technologies at that point, and, (iii.) safety and
locational considerations.



-9-
19.     A Sub-grant Processing Component of US$1.7 million has been allocated for the
Project consistent with other MP financed projects using a financial intermediary. Of this amount
US$226,000 will be available for processing the first tranche projects through to sub-project start
up. The funds will be utilized by the ODS PIU for its own operating costs, as well as for the hiring
of consultants to assist it in Project appraisal and supervision of procurement and Project
implementation.
20.     The cost of Project feasibility studies has totaled US$1,250,000, which includes
US$950,000 provided by GEF Project Preparation Advances for the aerosol and refrigeration
consumption sectors, as well as for ODS production phase-out, and US$300,000 by the United
States Trade and Development Agency for solvent, foam and fire fighting sector Project preparation
now in progress.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
21.     The criteria for determining the GEF grant component of each sub-project has been
based on that utilized by the MFMP. This approach has been adopted by previous GEF ODS
projects in the transition economies of Europe on the basis that GEF Participants approving funding
for these projects are also Parties to the Montreal Protocol and for the most part contributors to the
MFMP. It is also consistent with the requirement of the GEF Operational Strategy adopted in
October, 1995. The GEF funding for this Project is restricted to incremental investment costs.
Incremental operating costs, while eligible, have been excluded due to limitations on the
availability of GEF fimding. Eligibility for retroactive financing will be determined at sub-project
appraisal in accordance with the requirements set out in the GEF ODS Operational Strategy and
consistency with World Bank procurement practices. It was agreed at negotiations that the
maximum amount of expenditures eligible for retroactive financing, under this Project, would be
US$6 million. Such expenditures would have to be incurred after July 31, 1995. Proceeds of the
GEF grant will not be used for government duties or taxes, which have been included in the costs to
be covered by the enterprises from their own internally generated funds.
22.     The overall framework Project costs and anticipated financing are summarized in Table
I and further detailed in Schedule A, Tables Al and A2. The total Project cost is estimated to be
US$104.3 million, of which US$101.3 million is for sub-project capital investments, US$1.7
million is a sub-grant processing charge and US$1.3 million is for technical assistance. The GEF
grant of US$60 million will contribute US$57 million towards the cost of sub-project investments
and the balance will fund the sub-grant processing and technical assistance components. The
balance of sub-project investment costs (US$44.3 million) will be financed by enterprise funds and
commercial banking sources. It was agreed at negotiations that a clause would be inserted into the
sub-grant agreements with the beneficiary enterprises that would commit them to providing the
counterpart funds.



- 10 -
23.       For the first tranche, including an aerosol sub-project and a domestic refrigeration
refrigerant conversion sub-project, as well as a technical assistance and sub-grant processing
component, the total Project cost is estimated to be US$21.3 million, as shown in Table 1. Of this
amount, US$8.6 million will be provided by the GEF grant for GEF eligible costs, including
US$7.6 million for enterprise specific sub-projects, US$0.226 million for sub-grant processing and
US$0.748 million for technical assistance. The balance of US$12.7 million will be financed by
e.nterprise funds and commercial banking sources. No retroactive financing is required for the first
tranche investment sub-projects.
Table 1
Project Cost and Financing Summary
(US$ million)
Incremental
Capital Costs J/                 Project Finance Plan
Category                                        GEF                  Enterprises
Project      First       Project     First     Project       First
Tranche                 Tranche                Tranche
Aerosols                47.1        15.8         29.0        5.6        18.1        10.2
Refrigeration           54.2         4.5         28.0        2.0        26.2         2.5
TA/Institutional         1.3         0.8          1.3        0.8
Strengthening                                                                   _
Sub-grant Processing     1.7        0.2          1.7         0 .2
TOTAL             104.3       21.3         60.0        8.6        44.3        12.7
I/    Includes 10% physical contingencies on sub-project capital costs
24.       Schedule A summarizes the Project's cost and financing plan by sub-project. Appraisal
of the two sub-projects in the first tranche has verified these cost estimates. During appraisal it was
confirmed that the beneficiary enterprises have the capacity to meet their portion of the required
investment from internally generated funds and have agreed to give priority to financing these
investments (see Annex 2). The cost estimates and financing plans for second and third tranche
sub-projects are based on information developed during Project preparation. They are currently
being updated in accordance with Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG) reviewers'
comments and will be further verified during the appraisal of these sub-projects.



- 11 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Implementation Arrangements
25.      Existing institutions, which are now established, will be responsible for various aspects
of Project implementation as agreed at appraisal (Annex 1). The Governnent has assigned the
MEPNR responsibility as executing agency for the Project. Within the MEPNR, responsibility for
implementation of the Project is assigned to the CPPI, which will coordinate its implementation
within the framework of the Country Program and with other Government agencies through the
Inter-Agency Commission for ODS phase-out. The CPPI operates under the MEPNR for
implementation of the Russia Environmental Management Project (EMP) and other internationally
financed projects. A Project Administration Agreement between the MEPNR and the CPPI was
executed as agreed prior to Board presentation.
26.      Within the CPPI, two ODS PIUs will manage the investment and institutional aspects of
the Project. The ODS Investment Project Unit will manage sub-project appraisal and sub-grant
approval, supplementary Project preparation activities related to ODS consumption and production
phase-out and will supervise sub-project implementation. This unit will be associated with the
National Pollution Abatement Facility (NPAF) within the CPPI. The second unit, named the ODS
Country Program Unit, will be associated with the EMP institutional strengthening components of
the CPPI. It will be responsible for managing the Project's technical assistance components related
to strengthening of the regulatory and ODS phase-out monitoring capacity of the Government,
enhancement of Project implementation capacity, and development of public awareness initiatives.
In addition it will assist the the MEPNR in interfacing with international agencies including
preparation and submission of ODS monitoring reports required by the Parties to the MP. The
staffing requirements of these two units were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
27.      The beneficiary enterprises will have direct responsibility for implementation of the
investment sub-projects. They will be supported by the CPPI's procurement, administrative and
financial management capacity developed for the EMP, in order to ensure that they meet Bank
practices and procedures. The ODS Investment Project Unit will be responsible for providing
support for sub-project appraisal, sub-project implementation supervision, procurement advice,
disbursement approvals, financial and progress reporting, and ensuring compliance with GEF
procedures. Where necessary, this unit will involve the National Pollution Abatement Facility5)
(NPAF) in assisting enterprises in the preparation of financing packages and facilitation of co-
financing arrangements. Individual sub-projects will be covered by sub-grant agreements between
the beneficiary enterprises and the CPPI acting on behalf of the MEPNR. Sub-projects will be
approved in accordance with the Bank's trustee obligations to GEF and individual sub-project
funding will be subject to prior approval by the GEF. Draft sub-grant agreements for the two sub-
5)    The NPAF has been set up under the EMP as an independent facility to finance commercially viable pollution control
projects in Russia.



- 12 -
projects in the first tranche have been discussed at appraisal. Execution of sub-grant agreements
between the CPPI and the beneficiary enterprises are conditions of disbursement of sub-grants.
Sub-grant agreements include the following provisions: implementation of Project with due
diligence and efficiency: maintenance of records and accounts: auditing of financial statements:
nrocurement of goods, works and services, according to World Bank procedures: independent
inspection of physical completion: insurance provisions: regular reporting on financial condition of
the enterprise: suspension of grant for non-performance: refunding grant in case of misuse: and
preparation of a completion report.
Procurement and Disbursement
28.      Procurement of goods and services will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines as set
out in Schedule B. For the first tranche, detailed procurement plans for the two enterprises were
agreed at appraisal (Tables B3 and B4) with sub-grant funds being allocated primarily to imported
equipment to be purchased using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or International
Shopping (IS) procedures. Projected summary procurement arrangements for the overall Project
first and for the tranche are also included in Schedule B as Tables B1 and B2. The detailed
procurement plans for the second and third tranches will be finalized upon appraisal of individual
sub-projects included in these tranches. It is expected that the first tranche projects would start in
June 1996 and be completed by December 1998. With approval of the second tranche the sub-
projects in this tranche are expected to begin in January 1997 with completion expected in June
1999. The implementation schedule for the remaining sub-projects in tranche 3 will be dictated by
the date of GEF Council approval, but can be anticipated to cover a two and one-half year
implementation period. Disbursement arrangements and expected schedule of disbursement are
given in Schedule B as Tables B5 and B6. The Project completion date is December 31, 2000.
Monitoring and Evaluation
29.      The closing date for the grant is December 31, 2001. The CPPI will have overall
responsibility for monitoring Project progress. It will prepare brief monthly, as well as quarterly
progress reports summarizing progress on Project implementation, disbursement, and highlighting
issues and follow up actions to ensure that the Project remains on schedule. An improved system
of timely monitoring of ODS consumption and production will also be adopted and regularly
reported. The CPPI will also be responsible for preparation of a Project Completion Report, to be
completed within six months of the end of Project implementation. Specific Project performance
indicators were developed and agreed at appraisal. These are provided in Table 2.
Accounts and Audits
30.      A computerized Project accounting system has been set up in the CPPI to provide timely
and accurate reporting of Project expenditures for the EMP. This system is already being used for
financial reporting of expenditures and disbursements for the GEF ODS PPA account and will



- 13 -
continue to be used for the duration of the ODS Project. These accounts, as well as beneficiary
enterprise accounts will also be subject to independent audit by an internationally recognized
auditing firm acceptable to the Bank. The same firm that is selected to audit the EMP accounts will
also be commissioned to audit the ODS Project accounts.
Table 2
Performance Monitoring Indicators
1.    Counterpart funding for ODS Consumption phase-out of $44.3 million.
2.    GEF Grant funding of ODS Consumption phase-out of $60 million to be approved in
three tranches.
3.    Complete ODS phase-out in: (i) seven aerosol producing facilities; (ii) six domestic
refrigeration manufacturing facilities, including both refrigerant charging and foam
blowing facilities; and (iii) one commercial refrigeration facility. Setup a pilot facility
for refrigeration servicing for ODS recycle and recovery.
4.    Enact and enforce regulations for ODS phase-out and control of ODS exports.
5.    Develop and operate an effective system for monitoring ODS consumption, production,
recycling, import and export.
6.    Fulfill international reporting requirements as specified by the parties to the MP.
7.    The Project will phaseout 15,354 MT/yr. ODP, representing 35% of 1992 consumption.
3upervision
31.     Supervision by a Bank team will take place semi-annually following the submission of
the progress reports by the CPPI through the MEPNR. The supervision missions will be composed
of the task manager, supported by financial and technical specialists as needed, and will require
about 15 staff weeks per year.



- 14 -
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.     The Project's sustainability is based on the Russian Federation's commitment to
ultimately meeting the country's obligations under the MP, and to provide a sound institutional and
policy framework for its overall ODS phase-out program, as documented in the Country Program
and the formal commitments made to it by the Government (Annex 3). This institutional and
policy framework will be supported indirectly by the EMP, and directly by the Project through
provision of technical assistance to the MEPNR for strengthening its institutional capacity and
ODS phase-out implementation capability. Sustainability of enterprise investments is based on the
strict criteria used for sub-project selection. Project preparation work undertaken to date has
identified and documented a wide range of individual sub-projects in critical consumption sectors
with the assistance of local and foreign experts. A number of potential sub-projects have been
excluded from the Project because of low product demand and/or outdated technology and
equipment. Only the most promising sub-projects from a technical and commercial perspective
have been included in the Project pipeline. In addition participating enterprises are being subject to
a financial viability evaluation in preparation for sub-project appraisal and final selection. This
evaluation determines the enterprise's financial position, ability to sustain its portion of the required
investment, and its medium term business prospects. Project funding will make provision for on-
going assistance to the beneficiary enterprises in their preparation of financial management and
marketing plans.
VIII. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE.
33.     The Project is the sixth GEF-funded ODS phase-out project to be recently initiated in the
transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe and, therefore, direct Bank experience in these
countries and associated lessons is limited. However, the Bank has implemented ODS phase-out
projects in fifteen developing countries as the MFMP Implementing Agency. A number of lessons
have been leamed from experience with these projects including: a) the importance of a national
phase-out policy or Country Program as a basis of assuring commitment and ownership by the
client country; b) the value of strong enterprise/government linkages to achieve phase-out
objectives; c) the need for institutional strengthening and training for local implementation units
and financial intermediaries; d) the utility of using a framework project supported by a pipeline of
sub-projects subject to individual appraisal and approval by a financial intermediary; and e) the
importance of technical support in the preparation and review of sub-projects. Additional lessons
have been learned from other the Bank projects in Russia, including the importance of: a)
identifying a consistent committed counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the Project
forward; b) coordinating among key interested parties at the federal, regional and enterprise levels;
c) early detailed attention to procurement and other implementation issues; and d) involving local
consultants and institutes in the process. Lessons from the EMP indicate the need for early
appointment of project managers and implementation teams so that critical procurement activities
can be initiated upon loan effectiveness. The design, preparation and structure of the Project



- 15 -
incorporates these lessons in a number of ways. Project preparation work has involved a well
defined Country Program and identification of a wide selection of sub-projects. The MFMP
framework Project model, including a pipeline of approved sub-projects, is being utilized. All of
the sub-projects in the pipeline have been independently OORG reviewed. Technical assistance
directed at strengthening institutional capacity within the government, implementing agencies and
enterprises has also been provided. Sub-project processing procedures are similar to those used for
MFMP projects, including the utilization of the technical review capability established for these
sub-projects. Finally, both the ODS Task Force and the ODS PIU are already operational and are
supported by a smoothly functioning procurement and disbursement capability established for the
EMP.
IX. RATIONALE FOR BANK AND GEF INVOLVEMENT
34.      Russia represents the second largest producer and consumer of ODS in the world, where
substantive progress toward the phase-out of these materials is not well advanced. As such, it
represents one of the most significant country specific opportunities available to reduce ODS use on
a large scale and, as a consequence, to achieve major global environmental benefits through cost
effective technological interventions.
35.      The Project is consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy to the environmental sector
and with its Country Assistance Strategy to Russia.  It provides for the strengthening of
institutional capacity and development of  policies and regulatory actions required for
implementation of the overall ODS phase-out program. This institutional strengthening is coupled
with core investments at the enterprise level, both as demonstration of effective ODS phase-out and
as significant contributors to the program. It will support the development of a market oriented
economy by focusing direct financial assistance on viable enterprises requiring technological
change to remain competitive under international environmental standards. It assists in redirecting
public sector involvement in the economy through strengthening of institutional capacity for
monitoring and regulation of ODS consumption, production and export. Finally, it establishes a key
role for the Bank in mobilizing bilateral and multilateral grant funds in support of a key global
environmental priority, where this would otherwise not be available.
36.       The Project is complementary to the Bank's overall support to Russia in the
environmental sector. The technical assistance components of the Environmental Management
Project (EMP) will enhance the management, resource and institutional capability within the
MEPNR, which in turn will be supportive of the administration of ODS phase-out activities.
Additionally, enterprise-specific ODS phase-out sub-projects are expected to provide opportunities
for utilization of the National Pollution Abatement Facility (NPAF) as a financial intermediary.
Cooperation between and integration with various Bank initiatives is considered important,
recognizing the scale of environmental problems that exist in Russia and limitations on resources
available to address them.



- 16 -
37.      The Bank's role to date has involved the provision of two GEF Project Preparation
Advances (PPA) for the identification, technical definition and financial screening of sub-projects
in the aerosol and refrigeration ODS consumption sectors, and for the facilitation of ODS
production phase-out. In addition, the Bank has facilitated and assisted in donor funded studies
supporting the development of the Country Program (Denmark) and Project preparation work in
the solvent, foam and fire protection sectors (United States). The Project preparation work in the
aerosol and refrigeration sectors has been completed. This work initially identified twenty-nine
potential candidate sub-projects (seven in the aerosol sector and twenty-two in the refrigeration
sector). The most advanced and cost effective of these sub-projects have been selected for the
pipeline included in this Project. Some of those that were not selected, along those expected to be
identified in the solvent, foam and fire protection sectors, are expected to provide a pipeline of sub-
projects for a possible future GEF Project, or for other multilateral or bilateral initiatives. The work
covering production phase-out requirements in the six major enterprises manufacturing ODS in
Russia has formed the basis of a separate Bank initiative to provide donor funding of ODS
production phase-out, which is now being arranged in parallel with and supported by technical
assistance from this Project.
38.      Consistent with the country eligibility requirements as set out in the GEF Operational
Strategy, funding to the Russian Federation for the first project on stratospheric ozone protection
has been allocated by the GEF on the basis that Russia:
a)     is not an Article 5 country in the MP and eligible for funding from the MFMP but has
a demonstrated need for assistance in meeting its phase-out obligations under the MP;
b)     has succeeded to the FSU's ratification of the Vienna Convention and MP, and has
ratified the London Amendments to the MP;
c)     has completed preparation and is undertaking implementation of a Country Program;
d)     has undertaken to complete submission of a formal justification of its 1996 non-
compliance position to the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, inclusive of causes of non-
compliance, assessment of delays in the implementation of control measures and a
revised schedule of commitments;
e)     has undertaken to provide clarification of its arrears in contributions to the MLMP;
and
f)     is fulfilling its obligations with respect to reporting to the Parties to the Montreal
Protocol on ODS production, consunption and trade data.
39.      This Project has been designed based on the requirements defined in the Country
Programn and the guidelines of the GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP). It utilizes
the framework Project model developed for investment operations financed by the MFMP.
Individual sub-projects have been individually reviewed by the Ozone Operations Resource Group,
approved in accordance with GEF procedures. It applies to a range of enterprise-specific sub-
projects that offer substantive ODS phase-out gains, but require investments for which the



- 17 -
beneficiary enterprises would not be able to obtain sufficient financing from commercial sources.
Within these sub-projects, grant funding is limited to eligible incremental investment costs, while
the enterprises are responsible for financing the balance from their own resources, financial
intermediaries such as the NPAF, or through loans from commercial banks.
X. PROJECT BENEFITS
40.      The Project's primary benefit will be its contribution to ODS phase out in Russia, which
is now one of the largest remaining consumers and producers of ODS in the world. The sub-
projects identified for the Project are estimated to phase-out 15,354 MT/year ODP, based on 1994,
or the last three year average consumption data. It effectively eliminates ODS use in the aerosol
sector, which is the country's largest consuming sector. In addition, it phases out ODS use in the
largest and most viable domestic refrigerator manufacturers, accounting for an estimated 77% of
consumption in the second largest ODS consuming sector. Finally, it initiates phase-out in the
commercial refrigeration sector. The framework provided by the Project facilitates access to other
financial resources. This will enhance Russia's ability to initiate other ODS phase-out projects,
either independently, through other Bank supported facilities such as the NPAF, or potentially as
part of future GEF-funded projects. The substantial reduction in demand for ODS will add further
incentive for the phase-out of ODS production in Russia. The successful implementation of the
Project will demonstrate Russia's commitment to meet its ODS phase-out obligations with the
international community. The Project will directly assist viable, market oriented enterprises in
modernization of manufacturing capability and in the development of export ready products
utilizing non-ODS technology.   The institutional capacity  for monitoring and regulatory
enforcement of ODS phase out, increasing public awareness of the issue and assessing investment
opportunities will also be strengthened under the Project.
XI. PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
41.      Risks associated with the Project are generally comparable to other industrial and
institutional development activities in Russia. These include: a) the fragmented decision making
process on environmental and investment matters at the federal and regional levels; b) the limited
enforcement capability to support environmental initiatives; c) conflicting mandates and lack of
cooperation between government agencies; d) lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, investrnent
planning, and project management; e) difficulties in arranging financing of local costs for
environmental investments; and f) the general economic climate in the country. Project specific
risks are primarily associated with the sustained financial viability of participating enterprises, and
the need to support ODS consumption phase out with domestic supply of substitute materials and
equipment. The conditionality of GEF funding on acceptance and approval of Russia's ODS phase-
out commitment and strategy by the Parties to the Montreal Protocol also constitutes a project risk.



- 18 -
42.      The Project has been designed to minimize these risks to the maximum degree possible.
The general institutional risks associated with activities in Russia are mitigated by the overall
institutional strengthening provided by the EMP, and the direct policy and regulatory assistance
provided to the MEPNR for ODS phase-out. Administrative and Project management risks are
reduced by focusing the Project's operational implementation responsibility within the CPPI,
specifically with the addition of specialist technical and Project supervision resources within the
ODS PIUs. Risks associated with financing local costs are addressed by provision of co-financing
assistance through the NPAF. Sub-project specific risks associated with enterprise viability and
technical capability are mitigated by undertaking Project preparation work to support the selection
of the most cost effective and commercially viable sub-projects, the use of commercially proven
ODS conversion approaches and technology, and the provision of procurement and financial
planning assistance as part of Project implementation. The development of HAP and HFC-134a
supply capability for the aerosol and refrigeration sectors respectively is expected to be
commercially viable as a result of markets created by conversions initiated through this Project.
The development of supply capability for both ODS substitute materials is also being facilitated by
utilization of the NPAF as a vehicle to finance commercially viable investments in HAP and
refrigerant substitute production. Beneficiary enterprise financial viability is being assessed as part
of the appraisal process to ensure the enterprise's capacity to provide its share of sub-project
financing. Risks associated with GEF funding linkages to Russia's phase-out commitment and
strategy are being mitigated by Bank initiatives to mediate conflicts that have arisen between the
Russian Government and the Parties to the Montreal Protocol. The establishment of the ODS
Country Program Unit as a focal point to support of the Government's ODS reporting
responsibilities under the MP should further serve to improve communication with the international
community. This will be strengthened through the technical assistance component of the Project,
which is designed to improve responsiveness of the country's ongoing monitoring and reporting
obligations and strengthen the institutional basis for ODS phase-out.
XII. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
43.      The Project has been assigned a "B" rating for environmental assessment (EA) purposes.
Each sub-project will be subject to environmental assessment in accordance with the guidelines and
procedures established by the NPAF to meet both Russian Government and World Bank EA
requirements. Potential environmental impacts include those associated with the flanmmability and
air emissions characteristic of hydrocarbon based non-ODS substitutes, and site specific impacts
associated with manufacturing plant developments or modifications. Each sub-project requires
approval by the World Bank and the GEF Council prior to the sub-grant disbursement.



- 19 -
XIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS REACHED
44.      The following action has been taken by the Recipient:
Signing of the Project Implementation Agreement between the MEPNR and the
CPPI (para 25).
45.      The following are conditions of sub-grant disbursements:
a) Each sub-project to be approved by the Bank and the GEF Council (para 43); and
b) A sub-grant agreement to be executed between the CPPI and the beneficiary
enterprise. Sub-grant agreements will include the following provisions:
implementation of Project with due diligence and efficiency; maintenance of records
and accounts; auditing of financial statements; procurement of goods, works and
services, according to World Bank procedures; independent inspection of physical
completion; insurance provisions; regular reporting on financial condition of the
enterprise; suspension of grant for non-performance; refunding grant in case of
misuse; and preparation of a completion report (para 27).






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
TABLE Al: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST DATA
IIH
_l~                                                                                      _
_________                                                                          __       _ R.ple CFli  h 117  S1334 ODW 4%.. .11 (4716 
(KmWWWsk)         PA06gonr     Rt~ift        frisw35                                    Ri. -D                .4S,
Tocne   cl           ban       cmary _rtm hmkeo ,                                                                                                               74N
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl- Ni- WU-* ffW:K, - -
NDCP                   d       CFC on HsA  ropdbt Csim                                  sLaS OD                   .1                                            2    S
Hd"-                  ~CFC to HAP Fradm Ctnerim               5A 1.4*1kg OD?                                                (641AN)                      ,8
tftk
AsreS       CFCsg HA? Prnpdlm Cm_*                  1,70             Si1A. OW?              4,34M                (616p"                      3,726MB
(V.'-rm             I___         __________
IbVmumwuh         Ammi         CFC t HAP ?rpda C_inn.'.               1,219             S3.1lig gOD           4,576,6               (      -4,12W
*kAlSd.pr..n      Aces.'       Mabuics PR" tennis.                     5931            SIAtkg. GD?             2AUPM                   a                        2,303*
M. bySt.          A.e.g.       CFC i    HA?P P _NS  C__ymr..          2,66             S1,fl3r. OD?           5A75                  (1
MtV  w            Dut          RecCVC-Il Fem  AeS                      3.2             S9.31kDP               17,577M               55700                      23,152
______M CydWpIStP
SEto                           R91l CFC-I Fwmir  A@                    30              Slt4BIQ& OD?            3,7906               3,6357                      6.74M
(8w_v EP93}    R        -,I,g  width *u C ne
Rqmee CFC-1l wis HiC-132a as            22               571Skg ODID          12,79,0                654MB                        313,
___ __    e  d duhu.e CFC113 ue_
_tti-4.ah         CensuS.'   ReplamCFi-li Fining A                     is              57.12WkD               1,OD25160             353M                        1,45m
(Yw-cW            fsEdu        VA* Cydapesbe
Rp-._ CFC-1i2 wi HFC-134s                               S S fg.D 5D                                                             3 2   0111
._ __  .R.
t*4am6                                                                                                                                                          MWM
Teduics              W is oe    Cfl7 n Frn 1 _mp _cein,                                                                                                        526M
-~~~~~~Dws.Ded                            11                                      "FII _A_  73*2 ODF     4,16P                7.WX                        11.77NM
(Lll}ak)          pAfdowan                     R CydtpW
Oink                  ~~~~Rqd  CVrl I Fo"o Arw                 132             S14&* ODF               S.Im2"7                                          1VA
atm6e                                                                                                         ,mMm                 2,59Wm  665                n,anuI
Repla CFC-I with HFC-134. -            Is3              S3YG OD0 160                                 ,ewm                      3413M
dria and wdat.i_ CFCI13 w_                                                                               _
POLUG  Rwo acF-l I F_uning AIM          I"               ShskgODF               794M                 2.416                       3,314JM
uuwusu            R            Wma Cb-lbws HFC134,
Rqm  aCC-12   HFC 134a n       1         2                     S ODP           IJ 92 .M
llpdtsm     diwt CFCII use
Zavod                            R LmCFC-II kgA9                       191"              S14G ODP                                    2,a
Repa CFC-12 w   HC,134a a               is       1       576n OPP              1,S947.M              441 A
.             ~~~~~~Rddlpan nd diminsk CFCI 13 use                         ....
Pa_ad                          RK a_t i_m                                                                      64.M                                             654A
Trining..                                                                                                  .
S_                                                                                                                               4Z,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....2111 
P_Ch                                                             _~~~~~~~~~~~g



RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                          SCHEDULE A
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
TABLE A2
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
JSC Arneot            Aerosol          CFC to HAP Propelani Convenion                                    5,650,00D0         S,650,0CO          10,136,000               15,&76,o0
(Nevinnomyssk)         _
KRP Biry.ss          Domestic         Replace CFC-12 with Propane/                   440,000             1,536,000          1,976,000          2,529,000                4,505,000
(Krasnoyarsk)         RefBgeratsoo     latane mixture as Refrigent
Sub-Grant Processing Chare (3%)              216,000                                  226,000                                     22600
Technical            Institutional    Country Progrn Implemhetatlion,                14s,000              600,000            74 000                748,000
Assistance                            InstitutiansllRepglatory Strengtbening
Projedt Preparation, Training_
FRST TRANCiE SUB-TOTAL                                          f4000 -7,7a,060 86,0                                    13,1         - .000 f350
NDCP                 Aerosol          CFC to HAP Propellant Conversion                                   8,488,000          8,488,000          2,421,000               10,0,000
(Novosibirsk)
Halogen              Aerosol          CFC to HAP Propellant Conversion                                   1,976,000          1,976,000           8S0,000                 2,126,000
(Perm)
llimprom             Aerosol          CFC to HAP Propellant Conversion               504,000             2,421,000          2,92,000           1,417,000                4,342,0t1
(Volgagrad)
Novomostowsk         Aerosol          CFC to HAP Propelant Conversion                                    3,791,000         3,791,000           1,0w5,000               4,S76,000
,,TssI Obiast)
Attaichimprom        Aeroaol           Mechanical Pump Convenion                      50,000             2,8hS,000          2,138,000           500,000                 2,638,000
(Slavgorod)
Mosbytchim           Aerosal          CFC to HAP Propellant Conversion               175,000             3,640,000          4,015,000          1,663,000               S,670,000
MNtoscow)                                                                                               _
KRP Biryuss          Domestic         Replace CFC-I Foaming Agent                                        5,497,000          5,497,000         12,081,000               17,57S.000
(KrRsnoyarsk)         Refrigeration   with Cyclapentane                                                                                                         _                  _
SEPO                  Domestic         Replace CFC-1I Foaming Agent                                      2,579,000          2,579,000           211,000                 2,790,000
(Saralov EPO)         Refrigeration    with Cydopentane
Replace CFC-12 with HFC-134a as               167,000             1,355,000          1,552,000           27,000                  1,579,000
Refrigerant and eliminate CFCI 13 ue                                                                                  _
Marikholdodmarsh    Commercial        Replace CFC-11 Foaming Agent                                        356,000           356,000            895,000                  1251,000
(Ycshkar-Ols)         Refrigeration    with Cydopentane
Replace CFC-12 with HFC-134a as                                    153,000            153,000           350,000                  503,000
Refrigerant
Sub-Grant Processing Charge (3%)              696,000                                1,004,000                                   1,004,000
Technical            Institutionil     Country Program Implementation,               218,000              400,000            526,000                                     S26,000
Assistance
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                          ..     W B
~~...* ..............                                ....... .. * *.  ....*.*.. ..
NLLMX "Stintol"      Domestic         Replace CFC- II Foamint Agent                                      3,070,000          3,070,000          1,146,000                4116,000
(Lipetskl             Refri&erabon     with Ccolspent ne___
Domestc          Replace CFC-1 I Foaming Agent                                     4,772,000          4,772,000          4,020,000                8,792,0W0
(Orenburg)            Refrigeration    with Cydapentane
Replace CFC-12 with HFC-134a as                                    1,13S,000         1,138,000           480,000                 1,618,000
_____________  __________ Refrigerant and eliminate CFC-1 13 use
POLl'S               Domestic          Replace CFC- II Foaming Agenl                  69,000              659,000            724,000            72,000                   796,000
(Zlatoust)            Refrigeration   with HFC-134a                                                          _
Replace CFC-12 with HFC-134a as                                    719,000            719,000            473,000                 1,192,000
Refrigerant and eliminate CFC113 use                   _
Zavod                Domestic          Replace CFC-1 I Foaming Agent                                     3,534,000          3,554,000          3,274,000                6,S28,000
(Zelenodolsk)         RefrigerAtion    with Cydopentane
Replace CFC-12 with HFC-134a as                                    1,289,000         13289,000           658,000                 1,947,0W0
Refrigerant and eliminate CFCI13 use
Refrigeration        Refrigeration    Recovery Equipment Investments and             254,000              400,000            654,000                                     654,000
Servicing                             training
_Sub-Grant Processing Charte (3%)              4J0,0                                  480,000                                      480,000
NOTE I Total Project Coats indude incremental operating cents (iRefrigeration sub-projects) hut exclude incremental coatt savings (Aerostol mub-projects)
NOTE 2 Costs contain a 10XA physical contingency



SCHEDULE B
Page I of 8
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. Procurement
1.     A procurement plan applicable to each investment sub-project will be developed at
appraisal of each tranche. During implementation, the ODS PIU will be responsible for ensuring
that project procurement follows the Bank Guidelines and for providing assistance to enterprises
for both international and local procurement as necessary. In all cases, procurement will be
handled by qualified procurement specialists acceptable to the Bank.
2.      Goods and Works. Procurement of goods and works will be made in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," January, 1995. GEF
grant funded procurement for the enterprise specific investment sub-projects will apply primarily
to the purchase of imported equipment, with limited application to infrastructure works. To the
extent possible, contracts for goods will be grouped to allow for the procurement under ICB
procedures. In most cases these will involve turn key equipment and technical support packages
for specialized production systems applicable to aerosol or refrigeration manufacturing. Each
enterprise would make its own procurement arrangements with assistance and guidance of THE
CPPI procurement specialists in accordance with World Bank Procedures stated herein. Typical
equipment procurement packages for aerosol and refrigeration sub-projects would include such
items as: (a) propellant filling lines; (b) hydrocarbon storage and handling facilities; (c) valve
production equipment; (d) can manufacturing facilities; (e) safety and laboratory equipment; (f)
refrigerant charging and production testing lines; and (g) insulating foam blowing systems.
Training of equipment operators and maintenance personnel, transportation and technical support
for installation will be included within the equipment supply packages to the maximum degree
possible.
3.      To be consistent with the thresholds agreed for procurement of goods under the NPAF,
Table B1 shows that contracts for goods more than US$2,000,000 (estimated to total US$31.6
million) will be procured on the basis of the Bank's International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures and Bank Standard Bidding Documents. Domestic manufacturers competing under
ICB would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price, or the prevailing
customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided the value added to
the product exceeds 20% of the ex-factory bid price. To the extent possible, items will be
packaged suitable for procurement under ICB.  For contracts between US$50,000 and
US$2,000,000 (estimated to total US$32.3 million), procurement will be on the basis of
International Shopping (IS) with at least three price quotations from at least two countries.
National Shopping (NS) will be applied for goods contracts up to US$50,000, up to an aggregate



SCHEDULE B
Page 2 of 8
of US$1.4 million, based on at least three price quotations from local suppliers. All civil works
contracts under $250,000 will be procured locally on a competitive basis, following procedures
acceptable to the Bank to an aggregate total of US$1.0 million. No contracts above this value
are anticipated.
4.      Table B2 provides a summary of the procurement arrangements agreed with the
enterprises and the ODS PIU for the first tranche. The GEF grant will be used to procure
equipment to a total of US$6.0 million applying ICB procedures, US$2.2 million in equipment
purchases using IS procedures, and US$1.0 million in NCB contracting, for civil works. The
equipment for the production line conversion in KRP Biryusa is to be purchased from different
suppliers and is not suitable for pakaging as an ICB contract. Table B3 provides a detailed
procurement plan for each of the two investment sub-projects in the first tranche. Procurement
arrangements for the second and third tranches will be finalized at sub-project appraisal along
with the development of procurement plans applicable to each sub-project.
5.      Services.  Consultant services will be required to assist the MEPNR, the CPPI, and
ODS PIU in improving the system for monitoring and reporting of ODS consumption and
production, and for studies related to strengthening regulations and enforcement capability for
ODS phase-out. In addition, consultants will assist the ODS PIU in supplementary project
preparation work, developing public information programs, technical and financial evaluations,
and procurement support during appraisal and sub-project implementation.  The hiring of
consultant services (US$3.0 million), both for individuals and consulting furms (see Table B1),
will be in accordance with the "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Proposals will be invited from
shortlisted consulting firms for all assignments with an estimated value of not less than
US$100,000 each. Individual consultants will be selected from an evaluation of the CVs of at
least three candidates. A Procurement Plan for the First tranche Technical Assistance
components is given in Table B4.
6.      Prior Bank Review is applicable to: (i) all ICB contracts for goods, the first NCB
contract for works of each enterprise, and the first two contracts for goods procured under
international shopping and national shopping procedures; (ii) consultant contracts in excess of
US$100,000 with firms, and above US$50,000 in the case of individuals; (iii) all sole source
consulting contracts with firms; and (iv) TORs for contracts below the thresholds in (ii) above.



SCHEDULE B
Page 3 of 8
Table BI - Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Overall Project
(in US$ MLN)                                                  l
Project Element                Procurement Method           Not Financed by           Total
GEF
ICB          Other
Goods                      31.6          33.7(a)              5.7                 71.0
(27.9)        (28.6)                                  (56.5)
Works                                     1.Ovu,              29.3                30.3
__________________ _________   _____(0.5)                          (0.5)
Consulting Services: (c)
l..   ...........                         ...............................    ..................................    ........................................  ...................................
Institutional                                     1.0                                    1.0
Strengthening                                    (1.0)                                   (1.0)
ii.     Training                                          0.3                                    0.3
(0.3)                                  (0.3)
Fiii.    Project Implementation                            1.7                                     1.7
(1.7)                                  (1.7)
TOTAL                   J   31.6            37.7               35.0(d)             104.3
_   (27.9)        (32.1)       _     _       __           (60.0) 
a)  Includes: US$32.3 MLN for International Shopping
US$1.4 MLN for National Shopping
b) Includes: US$1.0 MLN for National Competitive Bidding
c)  According to IBRD Guidelines on Consultant Selection
d) To be financed by the enterprises
Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by the GEF



SCHEDULE B
Page 4 of 8
Table B2 - Summary of Procurement Arrangements
First Tranche
(in US$ MLN)
Project Element            Procurement Method    Not Financed by GEF            Total
ICB         Other        ._ .         _.
Goods                   6.0         2.2a)                1.8                10.0
___________________________         (5.4)        (1.7)                                  (7.1)
Works          - _                      (b)              9.2                10.2
(0.5)                                  (0.5)
Consulting Services:(c)
0.7                                    0.7
i. Institutional Strengthening                   (0.7)                                  (0.7)
ii. Training                                     0.1                                     0.1
(0.1)                                  (0.1)
iii. Project Implementation                      0.2                                    0.2
_________________________           ~(0.2)     _   _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _       (0.2)
TOTAL                     6.0          4.2               I 1.0(dl             21.2
_____________  _   (5.4)   (3.2)       ___            _            (8.6)
(a) Includes:US$2.2 MLN for International Shopping
(b) Includes US$1.0 MLN for National Competitive Bidding
(c) According to IBRD Guidelines on Consultant Selection
(d) To be financed by the enterprises
Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts fnanced by the GEF



MOP41HSa1XI.r321                                                                TABLE BS
PROCUREMENT PLAN
FIRST TRANCHE INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
OE8CRIPT    OF GOODS,            E5TVA   OD  P          iOrO              PROCtMMEg9T                           RmARK
WORKS OR SERV1CES               PACKAGED   PROCURIMBIT                     SCHETDUL
A1tNw PRO-EDURP
TEtlOE   CONlRACT COPEM
JUN)                                     AWARD
AC APnst Ael CHuq P             2m3
- Preiiay Eqpnt Supplyfinaltaion              104,500   LOca Shoppin       WA       In Prou       Jns1?7   Enara F
- BEailed Connli, FP  Prolalon J Sysm         401,510   Local Shopping     NA       In Progra.    JunS7    E      a Fin _d
- T g  and Pun"                               274,670   Local Shopping     WA       in Prwn       JamS7   Enflxla Fiae
- PIK Vas and Finng                           222,200   Loc Shopping       WA       in Pow..    eawh    Enhpum Fhncd
-Inan                                        11,04,500   Local Shopn       NA       In Prowes    JutS?   Enleia Finaed
NAP Tank Coa (8)                              330,000        IS           ApilY9      Nov.56      ALug49    Codhgnlr o tian for GE? FunV
HAP Fg Linac (2)
- Buldg                                      1,705,680   Lor Shopping      NWA      In Progrss     hyN7   En _prea FPind
- FMng Una Equniun 3t 82,1800                               lCS          Apil6        JanA7       JannA6   GEF Funded
- lnsbtion                                    735.9D0   Local Shopping   OcL97        Dsecl7      ApeS/I    Enorprlae Fhancd
Fhshd Gooda Waehouse
Lift Trod Equipmn (Elevatoro)               275,000        IS          ApriU95      Nov13       JoI?   Contianoy heI for GPEF Funding
- E r*nunrFnh                                 3328,00   Lr Shopping        WA       In Proqs    Jun49?   Eharpias Pirned
- In_aaonBuiding                              282.150   Local Shopping     WA       In ProFWt     JanD/7   E nhyla Finned
ValV Makig Produson Urn
Vald Production EqupRt                      2200,0D0       ICe          Apdl96       Nov.A6      De.7   GEr Fundad
Viva Making Equipmanl
- Insloidin                                   330,0c0   Local Shopping    SeptU97     Nov197      April9    Enaprta FPwnoad
NAP Molacuar SBao                             215,600        IS           Ap%l        NoW.96      NovA9    Pr5l GEF Fundad (USS11.0090)
HAP (WC Er*nat                                 46,070      NS IIS         ApIM        Nov.06      Dc97   Cnilrgancy han br GU FPuneg
Dobaho Can D"eudion Unit            e      o     .0O   Local shoppin      Mar49       j97         Muy1    Enapla Finnacd
Infrshna ln;ruwnurt
- Eqadnp                                      21600   Local Shopping      NWA       In Prtgree    Jur"7   En_rprls FP_nned
- hAdon                                      1,459,61O   Loal Shoppig      WA       In Pn_        AprU    Enlrpa Fincd
Engihaoog                                      185,OCo    Sol Source      F965        Mar13       ApIU      Erawpun  hlacd
Enwwwnuntal Inmad Asuenaw                     107,910    Sola Soecca      Feb.6       Mar13rA e    9*6  Esnaaa FPinhd
TOTAL O EFJNDW PRLU.REMENT:
14.488,180         ICE: USS ,38,000
_________              IS: U ;Sf11                 _
Priinary Wors
- Chwagin Equlpnal                            264,000        IS            WA          WA        Conq,n    Enwprla. Fhwacd
- C eyor Modlefons                             44,000   For  AouA          NJ WA       NWA       Coroplala  Entus Fawnd
-Chagt   Vesiaon Endowu                         53500   Fore Monut         WA          NWA       Caropl, ErAwp10  Ftsnd
- bisnagtonChlo Wo                              11)00   FoPma Account      WA          N/A       Cenlab   Enlopisa F_acd
Toea FacMlue Euuldpa 
- Relgpr  Chaghg Syswmn                        33.000        IS          AprIf56      4*y16       OcAIs   GEF Furdad
- C_ssloeb                                    242,000        IS          Aprs1        JuiLyp/    OC/SS   GEF Fand
- Mole and Vrabfon Tir                         99.0no0       Is          AprIL'w6     4 6         Oct5    GEF Funrdd
TriW Proc'clion                                  4,400   Fore Account      N/A          N/A       DDe.    Enterprse Famned
Local Tra ba                                    10,120    Sole Source    Juna/        4u*yI       Od/ ESscapulae Finacd
Prudlon Lin Conbnion
Haten  Leok Deta-lon Eqpmwdn                 269,000        IS          April96      Oc Jty6 97   GEF Fundad
-R dgm- Charging Equipment                    697,000        IS          April5       Ocdl9       July/97   DEF Funded
- Seflig Spytene                               33.0C0        IS          ApuIBIS      OdlS        Jul/7   GEF Funded
Hytdrorbon Tre'fer Punm                       57,000        IS          Apt          OCde        July/7   DSEF Funded
Vown Pwn                                     196.000        IS          Apu* O bCd/S             Jul7   GOEF Fuwded
Foreign TreninglTerlhk  Supporl               61.000        IS          April5       Oc          Juhb7   GEF Fundad
Eqcuient Inl      niab   Upng
- Odanng oCFC-12 EqAdp                        66o.000   Fme Acount         N/A         N/A        Oct19    Esotrisse Finacd
- ina_alon Of Chlgn  Eqirpet                  495,000  FPm  Account        NWA         NWA        JnJ  O n E     spee Finned
- Ou Tight Erdunure Consbuonltr  a In         103,J50  FPe Accoun          N/A           A        Nov9?   E      swae  Fsacd
- Hyocaben Stbrnp Fee Inalngatlon             679,000       NCB           NWA          NIA        Odc79?   P *lb GEF Fuded (USU440,000
Ennr                                           55600    Sole Source       Feb13       MAr13        OctDO ESnterotu Fnaned
Emnionmnanti tpmn  AsAeaemen                   44.000    Sol Sore         Fdeb1       Mar134       A*/I   OEnlep,Iu FPinand
43264.970
Note: JSC Arnet w2   wak. an addittlon Uf6,000 using IS procedufas In oder to Siow reectIon  of gss tunding
hould pn tly propoed ICE and IS grant funded purchaeas be loa  than e*stimed
MOP48HB3JXLS



MOP4SHB4.XLS31i2/96                                           TABLE 84
PROCUREMENT PLAN
FIRST TRANCHE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
DESCRIPTION OF GOODS,              ESTIMATED        PROPOSED                   PROCUREMENT
WORKS OR SERVICES                 PACKAGED    PROCUREMENT                       SCHEDULE
AMOUNT        PROCEDURE
TENDER    CONTRACT   COMPLETE
(USS)                                       AWARD
A) Regulatory Framework Develpmen
Package Al - Regulatory practke review, option    180,000  Short Ust of Forms    May-96     Sep-96       Nov-97
selection, and tralning
- Intemational Regulatory Practice
- Option Sdeclion and Drft Reguiations
- Implementation Support and Trining
B) Monitoring and Repoxling System
Package B1 - Monitoring system development.       170,000 Short List of Forms    May-98     Sep-96       Dec-96
implementaton support and training
- Monitoring System Development
- Implementation Support
*Training
C) Investment Sub-Project Preparation and
Implementatbon Support
Package Cl- Enterprise Financid                   125.000  Short List of Forms    May-96    Sep-96       Oct-96
Evaluatlons - Tranche 2
Package C2 - Supplementary sub-pro,ct              30,000    Sole Souros      Sept.-96      Oct-96       Mar.97
preparation - Sohtent Sector
Package C3 - Supplementary sub-projed              25,000    Sole Source      Sept.-96      Oct-96       Mar.97
preparabon - Fire Protcton Sector
Package C4 - Supplementary Sub-project             30,000    Sole Source       Jun-96       Sep-96       Jan.-97
preparaton - Refatgeration Recyde Sector
Package C5 - Co-flnancing/i4lasteal fundIng        20.000    Sole Source       Ju1-96       Aug.-96      Nov.96
Sbudy
D) Proect Implementaton Support
Package DI - Training in technical &               30,000    Sole Source       Jul-96       Sep-96       Oc.-96
financial appraisal
Package D2 - Appraisal Manual                      20,000    Sole Source       Mar-96       Sep-96       Oct-96
E) Public Awareness and informXaton
Package El - Information MatriaVProgrmm            30,000    Sole Source       Jul-96       Sept.-9e     Nov.-96
Development
Package E2 - Phaseout Workshop                     48,000    Sole Source       Oct.-96      Nov.-96      Mar.-97
F) Technology Options for ODS
Production Phase Out
Package Fl - Evaluation of GIPH                   250,000  Short List of Forms    May-96    Sep-96       Dec-96
Technologies for ODS substtutes
Package F2 - Evaluation of Competing              302,000  Short Ust of Foms    May-96      Sep9         Feb-96
Technologies fbr ODS substitutes
G) Computer and Communications EquIpment
Package GI - Equipmnent for Regultory              40,000        NS           Sept-96       Ocd-96       Dec.-96
Implementing Agency
TOTALS                          1,300,000
MOP4SHB4.XLS



SCHEDULE B
Page 7 of 8
B.    Disbursement
7.      The project is expected to be disbursed within a period of 6 years with the funds being
be channeled through the CPPI as a financial intermediary. Funds would be disbursed against:
(a) for goods: 100% of foreign expenditures, and ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured
goods, and of expenditures procured locally; (b) for works: 80% of local expenditures; (c) for
consultant services: 100% of expenditures; and (d) financial agent fee to THE CPPI: 100% of
expenditures. These disbursement categories are defined in Table B5 and the projected
disbursement schedule is given in Table B6.
Table B5
Disbursement Categories
(US$ MLN)
Category               GEF Grant Amount           Percent of Expenditure
Eligible for Financing
Tranche 1   Tranche 2&3
100% of foreign expenditure
Goods                 7.1          48.7       100% of local expenditures
Goods                 7.1          48.7       (ex-factory cost)
80% of local expenditures
procured locally
Works                 0.5           0.7       80% of expenditures
Consultant Services for         0.8           0.5       100% of expenditures
TA/Institutional Strengthening
Sub-grant processing charge     0.2           1.5       100% of expenditures
Total                8.6           51.4



SCHEDULE B
Page 8 of 8
Table B6
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ MLN)                                    l
$                 FY96       FY97       FY98       FY99       FY00        FY01
Fiscal Year         0          6         14.4       16.8       14.4         8.4
Cumulative          0          6         20.4       37.2       51.6        60.0
Note: Assumes second tranche approval in April 1996 and third tranche approval in September 1996.
8.      Withdrawal applications will be fully documented for expenditures against contracts for
goods and works valued above $300,000 and consulting contracts valued above $50,000. Below
these amounts, disbursement will be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures
(SOEs) detailing the individual transactions. In order to facilitate disbursement, a Special
Account (SA) will be established by the CPPI under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. After effectiveness and upon the Recipient's request, the Bank will make an initial deposit
of $0.5 million, which will be increased to $1.0 million when cumulative disbursements reach a
level of $10 million. Requests for replenishment of the SA will be made on a quarterly basis, or
when the balance in the SA is one half of the deposit, whichever occurs first. In addition to the
evidence of payments, each replenishment application will be supported by monthly statements of
the SA, which will be reconciled by the CPPI. Project expenditures will be recorded by the
CPPI using a computerized project accounting system that has been developed for the EMP.
Payments would be made by THE CPPI following submission of requests for payment by the
enterprise or consultants that have been approved by the ODS PIU in the CPPI. The closing date
for the grant is December 31, 2001.



SCHEDULE C
Page 1 of I
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
a) Project preparation:
1. Time Taken to Prepare:                  36 months
2. Prepared By:                            R. Batstone, R. Cooke, EC3IV
D. Brown, C. Catanach, IENIM
3. First Presentation to Bank (Updated IEPS):   August, 1992
4. GEF Council approval of framework       May, 1995
Project and first tranche:
b) First Tranche Processing:
1. Appraisal Mission Departure:            October, 1995
2. Negotiations:                           March, 1996
3. Board Approval:                         May, 1996
4. Planned Date of Effectiveness:          September, 1996
c) Second Tranche Processing:
1. Expected GEF Council approval:          April, 1996
2. Sub-project Appraisals                  September-October, 1996
3. Sub-grant Agreements                    January, 1997
d) Third Tranche Processing:
1. Expected GEF Council approval:          September, 1996
2. Sub-project Appraisals                  November-December, 1996
3. Sub-grant Agreements                    May, 1997
4. Expected Date of Completion:            January, 2000






SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RUSSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a'
(as of April 30, 1996)
US$ Million
Loan     Fiscal                                                                     (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year       Borrower                       Proiect                         Loan     Undisbursed
Two fully disbursed loan                                                            1200.00      0.0
Loans Under Disbursement:
35320     1993     Russia              Employment services and Social Protection     60.00      48.99
35460     1993     Russia              Privatization                                 90.00      67.24
36230    1993      Russia              Oil Rehabilitation                           604.77     424.41
37060     1994     Russia              Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance       300.00     251.22
37340     1994     Russia              Financial Institutional Development          200.00     197.45
37560    1994      Russia              Land Reform Implementation Support            80.00      79.34
37570    1994      Russia              Agriculture Reform Implementation Support    240.00     239.06
37630     1994     Russia              Enterprise Restructuring                     200.00     200.00
37680     1994     Russia              Oil Rehabilitation II                        500.00     480.35
38060     1995     Russia              Environment Management                       110.00     106.83
38240     1995     Russia              Management and Finance                        40.00      37.50
38440    1995      Russia              Portfolio Development                         40.00      39.47
38500    1995      Russia              Housing                                      400.00     397.06
38530    1995      Russia              Tax Administration                            16.80      16.47
38720     1995     Russia              Emerg. Oil Spill. Mit                         99.00      42.99
38760**  1995      Russia              Gas Distribution and Energy                  106.50     106.50
38850    1995      Russia              Urban Transport                              329.00     329.00
39610 *   1996     Russia              Standards Development                         24.00      24.00
39900 **  1996     Russia              Bridge Rehabilitation                       350.00      350.00
40090 **  1996     Russia              Community Social Infra                      200.00      200.00
Total                                      3990.07    3637.58
Of Which: Repaid                         0.00
Total Now Held by the Bank                 5190.07
Total Amount Sold                             0.00
Of Which: Repaid                         0.00
Total Undisbursed                                      3637.58
a/   The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
*   Not yet effective.
** Not yet signed.



SCHEDULE D
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1996)
FY      FY              Description          Sector           Loan   Equity   Other /a- Total     Undisb
Appr.  Committed
A. ADvroved and Committed (Signed) Proiects
93      94    International Moscow Bank  Financial Services  15.0    0.0                15.0       12.0
93      94    Polar Lights              Mining & Extraction   60.0    0.0               60.0        0.0
94      94    Framlington Russ. Inv. Fund Financial Services g  0.0    8.0               8.0        0.0
95      95    First NIS Regional Fund   Financial Services    0.0    15.0               15.0        4.5
94      95    Russian Telecom Dev. Corp. Infrastructure       0.0     7.5                7.5        0.0
95      95     Nizhniy Newsprint Holding Timber, Pulp and Paper 30.0    11.0    45.0    86.0       20.2
95      95    National Registry Com     Financial Services    0.0      1.5               1.5        0.6
95      95    Vasyugan Services         Mining & Extraction    9.0    0.0                9.0        0.0
96      96    Alpha Cement Oepn Jt. Stock Cement & Construction       13.33             13.33       0.0
95      96    Dapsona                   Food & Agribusiness    6.8    0.0                6.8        5.3
95      96    Sector Capital Development  Financial Services  0.0     0.47               0.47       0.13
95      96    Sector Capital Fund       Financial Services    0.0     4.53               4.53       4.22
96      96    Russian Technology Fund    Financial Services   0.0     2.00               2.00       1.50
96      96    Savvinskaya-Seiyo Company Indus & Cons Svcs     7.7     0.00               7.70       7.70
Total gross commitments                             128.5    63.33     45.0   236.83       56.15
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales  19.8      -         -      19.80       --
Total commitrnents now held                         108.7    63.33     45.0   217.03       56.15
B. ApDroved Proiects Pending Commitment
CTC Foods                 Food & Agribusiness    0.0    7.0               7.0
Volga Fund                Financial Services    0.0    20.0              20.0
ICF/UNEXIM                Financial Services   15.0     0.0              15.0
Svyasinvest               Teleconimunications   0.0    50.0              50.0
Total pending commitments                            15.0   77.0                92.0
Total commitments held and pending                  123.7   140.33     45.0   309.03
Total undisbursed commitments held and pending       29.0    10.95      16.2    56.15
/a Participants' portion.



PART 2: TECHNICAL ANNEXES






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
I.     The Government has assigned Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural
Resources (MEPNR) responsibility as executing agency for the Project. Within the MEPNR,
the Project's overall implementation has been assigned to the Center for Project Preparation
and Implementation for International Projects on Technical Assistance (CPPI) which operates
under the MEPNR for implementation of the Russian Federation Environmental Management
Project (EMP) and other internationally financed projects. The CPPI will coordinate the
Project's implementation within the framework of the overall Country Program and with
other Government agencies through the Inter-Agency Commission established under the
Country Program. Within the CPPI, project implementation capacity has been established
within two implementation units with separate responsibility for investment related activities
and institutional strengthening activities respectively. The ODS Investment Project Unit is
associated with the National Pollution Abatement Facility (NPAF) and is responsible for
investment sub-projects. The ODS Country Program Implementation Unit is associated with
the EMP technical assistance components undertaking institutional strengthening related to
environmental policy and regulation generally. The CPPI also provides administrative,
procurement and financial support to these implementation units.
2.     The specific responsibilities of the MEPNR, the CPPI and the beneficiary
enterprises  have been formalized in a Project Implementation Agreement between the
MEPNR and the CPPI. Project implementation is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000. An overall project schedule is provided in Table Al.1.
3.     The MEPNR will have overall responsibility for the Government's obligations under
Project Grant Agreement with the World Bank (the GEF Implementing Agency). Its specific
responsibilities are:
i)    Negotiation and execution of the Project Grant Agreement on behalf of the
Government;
ii)   Supervision and monitoring of the Project's implementation as undertaken by
the CPPI, and beneficiary enterprises;



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
a- r   e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i i   _   1    l   e 3   eX~~~~~~~~B. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-         Ci
||  7              p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-WI-----~~~~~~
4L,     ,      Xi[  l



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
iii)  Introduction of legislative and regulatory proposals developed through the
Project and which cover such actions as: a) establishment of a monitoring and
reporting system for ODS production, consumption, recycling, trade and
phase-out investment; b) instituting and enforcing control measures for the
export of ODS in accordance with international obligations and undertakings;
c) licensing of ODS production, sale, distribution, and consumption; d)
application of sector specific bans on ODS use; and e) imposition of
economic instruments related to ODS production and consumption;
iv)   Ensuring compliance of sub-project implementation within this Project, with
applicable Russian laws and regulations from the aspect of environmental
protection; and
v)    Provision of information to the general public respecting the ODS issue and
the phase-out actions being undertaken.
4.     The CPPI has overall implementation responsibility for the Project, including
specific responsibility for:
i)    Coordination of Project implementation within the overall framework of the
Country Program and with other Government agencies through the Inter-
Agency Commission established under the MEPNR:
ii)   Represent the MEPNR in international bodies involved with ozone depleting
issues and phaseout of ODS;
iii)   Provision of regular reports on the Project to Ministry of Finance and Ministry
of Economy;
iv)   Establishment and supervision of the ODS PIUs and provision of
administrative support to these units;
v)    Acting in the capacity of financial intermediary with respect to the
disbursement of the grant funds in accordance with the Project Grant
Agreement;
vi)   Establishment and operation of the Special Account for the Project;
vii)  Submission of an overall Project Work Plan for the World Bank's approval,
inclusive of budgets and resource allocation applicable to the ODS PIUs;
viii)  Negotiation and execution of Sub-Grant Agreements with the beneficiary
enterprises;
ix)   Recruitment and appointment of an authorized procurement agent for the
Project;
x)    Providing monthly statements of sub-grant expenditures to the beneficiary
enterprises, the MEPNR and the World Bank;



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
xi)    Arranging for annual audits of Project accounts;
xii)   Reporting project progress through dissemination of monthly and quarterly
progress reports prepared by the ODS PlUs; and
xiii)  Preparation and dissemination of the Project Completion Report.
5.    The ODS Investment Project Unit associated with the NPAF shall have project
management responsibility respecting investment sub-projects as follows:
i)    Providing procurement advice and assistance to beneficiary enterprises in the
preparation of bidders lists and bidding documents in accordance with World
Bank procedures, and in coordinating "no objection" submission requirements;
ii)   Issuing payment orders from  the special account and preparing  the
requirements for disbursement of payments for the approved investment sub-
project expenditures;
iii)   Preparation of a Project Work Plan, including budgets and resource allocation
applicable to this unit;
iv)    Administering  GEF  project preparation  advance  funding,  including
preparation of Terms of Reference for such work and acquisition of resources
for its execution all in accordance with World Bank Procedures;
v)    Implementing the Project's investment related technical assistance activities
including:  a) finalizing the Terms of Reference;   b) identifying and
contracting with foreign and local consulting resources necessary to undertake
the required studies; and c) supervising the execution of the work;
vi)   Initiation and supervision of supplementary technical assistance related to
project preparation and procurement planning as may be required by
beneficiary enterprises;
vii)   Arranging for and supervision of the overall financial viability assessment of
beneficiary enterprises for which investment sub-projects will be appraised;
viii)  Participation with World Bank Missions in the appraisal of investment sub-
projects, and in the preparation of sub-project appraisal reports and sub-
project implementation plans respecting procurement and disbursement;
ix)    Coordination of enterprise co-financing initiatives through the National
Pollution Abatement Facility;
x)    Development and support of a reporting system on the progress of sub-projects
by the beneficiary enterprises;
xi)    Monitoring and reporting of sub-project implementation;
xii)   Monitoring financial performance of beneficiary enterprises; and



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
xiii)  Preparation of monthly and quarterly project progress reports summarizing
implementation activities, schedule milestones achieved, disbursements,
issues, and follow up actions, all with reference to agreed to performance
indicators.
6.    The ODS Country Program Unit established within the CPPI has direct responsibility
for the institutional and regulatory technical assistance provided by the Project and initiation
of associated regulatory activities, including specific responsibility for:
i)    Assembling information related to ODS consumption, production, recycling,
and trade as required to be reported under the Montreal Protocol;
ii)    Continuing development of the Country Program;
iii)   Regular reporting to the Secretariat of the Montreal Protocol respecting
Country Program implementation status, and ODS production, consumption,
trade and recycling;
iv)   Development and administration  of a system  of licensing  for ODS
consumption and production;
v)    Providing assistance to the State Customs Committee of the Russian
Federation and other Ministries and agencies having jurisdiction respecting
controls applied to the import and export of ODS and ODS containing goods,
including imports and exports within the countries of the Former Soviet
Union;
vi)   Providing support to the MEPNR in the implementation of legislative and
regulatory actions required for ODS phase-out;
vii)   Preparation of an overall Project Work Plan, including budgets and resource
allocation applicable to this unit.
viii)  Implementing the Project's institutional strengthening technical assistance
component, including: a) finalizing the Terms of Reference applicable its sub-
components and studies required for them;  b) identifying and contracting
with foreign and local consulting resources necessary to undertake the required
studies; and c) supervising its execution and assembling the results in a form
that can be adopted as effective regulatory, monitoring, control and
administrative measures by the MEPNR; and
Preparation of monthly and quarterly project progress reports summarizing
implementation activities, schedule milestones achieved, disbursements,
issues, and follow up actions, all with reference to agreed to performance
indicators.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
8.    The beneficiary enterprises will be responsible for implementing the approved
investment sub-projects, including
i)    preparation of procurement documents including technical specifications,
equipment lists, cost estimates and qualification of potential suppliers in
conformance with World Bank procedures for sub-grant eligible expenditures:
ii)   submission to the ODS Investment Project Unit of procurement documentation
applicable to sub-grant eligible expenditures;
iii)   maintenance of records of all requests for offers, cost comparisons, actual
purchases, including receipts applicable to sub-grant eligible expenditures;
iv)   submission of quarterly expenditure statements and project implementation
reports to the ODS Investment Project Unit; and
v)    Provision of independently audited financial statements respecting overall
enterprise performance on an annual basis to the ODS Investment Project Unit.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 55
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1.      This technical Annex is divided into four parts.  Part 1 provides profiles of the
aerosol and refrigeration sectors. Part 2 contains detailed descriptions and appraisal results of
the two investment sub-projects. Part 3 contains summary descriptions of investment sub-
projects proposed for the second and third tranches (Schedule A, Table AI). Part 4 describes
the technical assistance component of the project which will be financed under the first two
tranches.
PART 1: AEROSOL AND REFRIGERATION SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.  AEROSOL SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.      In 1992, the eight major manufacturers' of aerosols in Russia, produced 150 million
aerosol cans and consumed 18,150 MT CFC, making aerosols the largest ODS consuming
sector in the country (46% of total ODS consumption). An estimated 17,908 MT CFC were
consumed for commercial and industrial applications with a market estimated to be made up of
65 % cosmetic products, such as hair spray and 35 % technical products, particularly
insecticides. The remaining aerosol production is for pharmaceutical products. Market demand
is estimated to be approximately 0.75 cans per capita on an annual basis. This has declined
from 2 cans per capita prior to 1990, due to economic conditions and competition from
imports. However, recent production and consumption data suggests that this trend is
reversing with several producers reporting increased production and associated ODS
consumption.
3.      Most aerosol enterprises are fully integrated operations, making their own cans, tops,
valves, and even cardboard packaging. Three of the manufacturing plants (Chimprom,
Halogen and Altaichimprom) are part of, or affiliated with larger chemical complexes which
are also producers of CFCs used a propellants. As such, these three enterprises are also
required to phase-out production consistent with the national phase-out strategy and are to be
participants in the parallel production phase-out initiative being undertaken by the Russian
Federation.
The eight major aerosol producers operating in the Russian Federation are NDCP (Novosibirsk), Arnest
(Nevinnomoyssk), Halogen (Perm), Altiachimpom (Salvgorod), Chimprom (Volgagrad), Novomoscowsk
(Tula Oblast), Mosbychim (Moscow), and Chilton (Kazan).



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 55
4.      decisions were made centrally.  Similarly, the industry was dependent on a single
research establishment in Riga, Latvia for the supply of technology with additional technical
support being supplied by a design and project management institute in Kiev, Ukraine.
However, all plants are now in various stages of privatization, following conversion to joint
stock companies.  Each exerts local control over investment, production and marketing
decisions. Likewise, central technical support is no longer available on the same basis as
previously. This capability is either being developed by individual plants, or is contracted on
a competitive basis from foreign firms or the successors to former central technical institutes.
5.      There are seven (7) technologies available for replacement of CFCs in aerosols, each
with specific advantages and disadvantages: i) HAP is the lowest cost technology ,but requires
major modification of facilities in order to assure safe operation and storage of finished
products due to its flammability and may require some formulation redevelopment; ii) HCFCs,
specifically HCFC-22, HCFC-142b and HCFC-141b, are non-flammable and can serve as
drop-in replacements with minor reformulation or equipment modification, but are more
expensive than HAP and are a transitional material requiring eventual phase-out; iii) HFC's,
specifically HFC-134a and HFC-/152a, are a non-flammnable, drop-in option, but their
significantly higher cost relative to HAP make them cost effective only where formulation
requires specific solvent or other properties; iv) Compressed Gases, such as CO, CO2, N2,
N20, or air, are low cost and non-flammable but require stronger cans to withstand higher
pressures, forms a less desirable wet spray and reformulation is required; v) DimetiylEthyr
(DME) is more expensive than HAP, somewhat flammable, has a high capacity to dissolve a
wide range of substances, particularly aqueous products and is not currently available in
Russia; vi) Mechanical Pumps are a cost effective delivery system, but require complete
facility replacement, can't be retrofitted for use of hydrocarbons and produces an inferior
spray with associated poorer market acceptance; and vii) Roll-On Applicators are cost effective
in some applications but have not proven an important substitute in general aerosol
applications for marketing reasons. In summary, HAP's have been the principal replacement
for CFC aerosols world wide and are approved by the UNEP Technical Options Committee
for the Montreal Protocol.
6.      The necessity of CFC phase-out is recognized by all aerosol producing enterprises,
with limited testing of CFC/HAP blends or 100% HAP being undertaken by most over the
last several years . At this time, one enterprise (Chilton) has implemented full conversion to
HAP, five enterprises (Novosibirsk, Arnest, Halogen, Chimprom, and Novomoskovsk) have
selected conversion to HAP, one enterprise (Mosbytchim) has converted most of its production
to HCFC-22 with one remaining line proposed for HAP conversion, and one enterprise
(Altaichimprom) has chosen mechanical pumps. The overall Project will cover complete
conversion from ODS propellants in all seven remaining ODS users producing cosmetic and
industrial aerosols. These users accounted for 85% of ODS used in the aerosol sector in 1992
and consumed 13,121 MT CFC based on 1994 consumption data.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 55
7.       Domestic supply of HAP having the necessary purity is currently limited and has
been viewed as a significant constraint on conversion. One of the two traditional suppliers was
the Karabulag refinery in Grozney, Republic of Chechnya, but this facility is no longer
operational.   The remaining  major supplier in Russia is the Minnebayov  Refinery  in
Almetevsk, but it is largely committed to supplying Chilton which assisted in the development
of the capability as part of its ODS phase-out program. However, a number of other refineries
are considering introduction of production as demand increases, which requires approximately
one year's lead time. In particular, the Neftekumsky Refinery in Stavropol Krai has completed
preparatory technical work and has obtained financing for development of 10,000 MT/year of
capacity.
II.  DOMESTIC REFRIGERATION SECTOR BACKGROUND
8.       Project preparation work has identified 12 domestic refrigerator manufacturers2 in
Russia. Several of these also produce compressors, along with four stand-alone compressor
suppliers3. Some compressors are also imported.  Total refrigerator production in 1993 was
3,500,000 units with 67% of current capacity concentrated in five major manufacturers (KRP
"Biryusa", Saratov, POLUS, Omsk, and Stinol), which produced 2,300,000 units.
Traditionally, 80% were sold domestically, and 20% were exported to CIS countries, Eastern
and Western Europe, Australia, Cuba, and China. However, markets in developed countries
have effectively disappeared with bans on ODS containing consumer goods, which has resulted
in a decline in production in some plants that have not developed ODS free "niche" product
lines.  Refrigerator sizes range from  20 to 125 ft3 in one and two compartment models.
Typical refrigerator life is 15 years during which it is serviced once on average.
9.       While limited phase-out of ODS has occurred on a selective basis in some plants
largely to maintain niche export markets, all major enterprises still currently use CFC-12
refrigerant and   rigid polyurethane foam  insulation forrned with CFC-11.   Total ODS
consumption in the domestic refrigeration sector in 1993 was estimated at 4,800 MT/year ODS
including CFC-1 13 solvent use during manufacturing processes.
Domestic refrigerator manufacturers identified are KRP "Biryusa" (Krasnoyarsk), Saratov Electric
Aggregate Production (Saratov), Zavod (Zelenodolsk), Orsk Mechanical Plant (Orsk), Polus (Zaloust),
NLMK "Stinol" (Lipetzk), Muron Machine Building Plant (Muron), Yuryuzan Mechanical Plant
(Yuryuzan), ZIL (Moscow). JSC "Iceberg" (Smolensk), Ussuriysk Machine Building Plant,
(Ussuriysk),and Leinetz (St. Petersburg).
3      Domestic manufacturers also producing compressors for internal and or sale are KRP "Biryusa"
(Krasnoyarsk), Orsk Mechanical Plant (Orsk), Zil (Moscow), JSC "Iceburg" (Smolensk). Stand alone
comr;essor manufacturers are Astzakhan Weapons Plant (Astzakhan), Tula Armory Plant (Tula), Omsk
Compressor Plant (Omsk) and Kirov Plant "Avaitech" (Kirov).



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 55
10.      Nine of the largest manufacturers have formed a separate joint stock company, JSC
Cholod-Byt as a vehicle for scientific and technical support in phasing out ODS. It sponsors
research and fact finding on replacement technology and its implementation.
11.      Technology options identified for the phase-out of CFC-12 refrigerant are: i) the use
of HFC-143a which has advantages of zero ODP, non-flammability, and high efficiency, but
also the disadvantages of requiring compressor replacement or re-design, cooling circuit and
cabinet re-design,  addition of system  drying facilities, as well as incompatibility with
conventional seal and motor insulation materials,  exhibitinig significant global warming
potential, and lower acceptance in some Western European markets; ii) Blends of HFC and
HCFC materials such as HCFC-22, HCFC-124 and HFC-152a offer a drop in option in most
applications without loss of efficiency but involve transitional substances; iii) hydrocarbons
(isobutane and propane/butane mixtures), which can be readily applied to existing compressor
designs without efficiency penalty, utilize the same mineral oil as CFC-12, have zero ODP and
global warming potential, but are flammable thus requiring design modifications to the product
and infrastructure upgrading in the manufacturing facilities; and (iv) use of HFC-134a as a
drop in substitute.
12.      Most Russian manufacturers have elected to utilize the HFC-134a option at this time
based on it being the most established technology available as phase-out plans were being
formulated and the primarily domestic orientation of their market. KRP "Birvusa"is the one
significant exception where a propane/butane mixture can be used in an existing compressor
design as well as in a new compressor line under construction, and because of a traditional
market in Western Europe where this technology option is preferred.
13.      Technology options for the replacement of CFC-11 foam blowing agents are: i)
HCFC-141 which requires minimal modification of existing production equipment, but is
slightly flammable, not compatible with some cabinet lining material, is a transitional
substance requiring eventual phase-out and may be subject to restriction in some export
markets; ii) HFC-134a which has zero ODP, is non-flammable, is compatible with cabinet
lining material and will not condense, but requires high pressure mixing equipment, has a
higher thermal conductivity than CFC-11, suffers solubility limitations in polyols, has
significant global warming potential and is expensive; iii) CO2 which is non-toxic, has zero
ODP and a small relative global warming potential, but has a 30% higher thermal conductivity
than CFC-1 1 and requires significant dimension changes in the product to be effective; and iv)
Cyclopentan which has both zero ODP and global warming potential, offers greater flexibility
in adapting blowing equipment, uses smaller quantities and is low cost, but can create
explosive mixtures with air, has a slightly higher thermal conductivity than CFC-1 1 and
requires upgraded handling and application facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 55
14.       The selection of cyclopentane by Russian refrigerator producers is almost universal
as a technology option.  The selection of cyclopentane is consistent with current trends
globally and is recognized as the preferred option. Only one manufacturer (POLUS) has
selected HFC-134a due to the location of their facility, which does not permit the use of a
potentially explosive foaming agent.
III.  INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION SECTOR BACKGROUND
15.      In 1993, the Russian industrial refrigeration sector consumed 328 MT CFC-12 and
157 MT HCFC-22. There are six manufacturers of industrial refrigeration machinery
including compressors.   Phase-Out in this sector will require development of designs for use
of non-ODS materials, principally HFC-134a, and manufacturing machinery with which to
fabricate the designs.  Production volumes in this sector are low largely due to economic
conditions. The result is that any conversions considered have very poor cost effectiveness.
Those facilities where planning has been initiated have generally selected the HFC-134a and
cyclopentane options, for refrigerant and foam blowing purposes respectively.
IV. COMMERCIAL REFRIGERATION SECTOR BACKGROUND
16.      In 1993, the Russian commercial refrigeration sector consumed 195 MT of CFC-1 1,
146 MT of CFC-12, and 100 MT of HCFC-22. Eleven  manufacturers have been identified5
with Marik.holodmash dominating the sector with 48% of the production volume. Phase-Out
in this sector will involve conversion to non-ODS refrigerants, principally HFC-134a, and
replacement of CFC-1 1 with cyclopentane for foam insulation blowing. While demand for this
type of equipment is relatively strong, most manufacturs i s appear to be in financial difficulty
and low capacity utilization rates are common to most. This limits the cost effectiveness of
most conversion initiatives at this time.
Industrial refrigeration producers identified are:- Kazan Compressor Plant (Kazan); Moscow "Iskra"
(Moscow); Kasinov "Cholodmash"(Kasimov); Cita-Centre Machine Building Plant (Chita); Moscow
Compressor (Moscow); and Cherkessk Refrigeration Plant (Cherkessk).
Commercial refrigeration equipment manufacturers identified are: ANPO "Marikholodmash" (Yoshkra-
Ola): Tormash (Ekaterinberg), Refrigeration Equipment Plant (Orenburg); JV. "Sovitalpromash" (Volzhsk);
Torhmash (Lubertzy); RPS "Initziativa" (Aleksandrov); JV "Interholod" (Moscow); JSC "Sneg" (Moscow);
"Edelveys" (St. Petersburg), PO "Cholodmash" (Yaroslavl); and Volgograd Tractor Plant (Volgograd),



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 55
V.    REFRIGERATION SERVICING SECTOR
17.      The largest use of ODS in the refrigeration sector generally is for servicing
operating equipment, mainly the stock of industrial and commercial units.  Approximately
4,500 MT of ODS material is estimated to be consumed annually for servicing operations. For
domestic refrigeration, this work is largely carried out by service centers operated by the
manufacturers. In the industrial and commercial sector, servicing was traditionally done by a
state organization affiliated with the Ministry of Trade. However, this system appears to have
largely collapsed and has been replaced by a series of small enterprises formed by former
employees of the original state organization.  Some consolidation of these operations is
occurring with a form of industry association or umbrella organization claiming to have a
nation wide network of service capability. However, development of an effective system of
recovery and reuse of ODS refrigerants has not yet occurred, although it will become critical
as production phase-out begins to take effect. As yet no specific investment projects in this
sector have been prepared although several are under consideration. This sector is anticipated
to be the focus of future bilaterally funded project preparation work and potentially other
investment initiatives. Options and initiatives potentially to be undertaken in this sector include
the development of CFC recovery and recycling infrastructure, retrofitting existing equipment
for non-ODS materials such as HFC-134a, use of HCFC-22 based drop-in blends, and
development of other drop-in alternatives.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 55
PART 2: FIRST TRANCHE SUB-PROJECT DESCRIPTIONS
I.    JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
A.   Enterprise Background
18.      Arnest is a private joint stock company located in Nevinnomyssk in the Stavropol
Region of the Russian Federation. Within the aerosol sector, the enterprise is one of the three
largest domestic producers, accounting for over 20% of can production and approximately
10% of ODS consumption in the sector. It is engaged primarily in the manufacture of aerosol
products, which accounts for 95 % of its business.  It was established in 1971 with a
production capacity of 20 million cans per year, using equipment originally imported from
Italy and Germany. Capacity has been increased over the last 25 years to the current capacity
of 40 million cans per year The enterprise currently employs approximately 1,000 people.
While a reduction of 80 persons has occurred over the past year, employment is expected to
be stable in the coming years.
19.      The enterprise was simultaneously transformed into a joint stock company and
privatized in November 1992. The company has two classes of shares, voting shares and
preferred (non-voting) shares. About 75% of share capital are voting shares and 25% are
preferred shares. The preferred shares as a group have the right to 10% of after tax earnings
as dividend. Preferred shares are owned by the workers, pensioners and management of
Arnest. The shares of Arnest are freely traded. The ownership structure of the total share
capital is as follows: First Voucher Fund (38%); other funds and enterprises (11%);
management (10%); workers and pensioners (31 %); and other individuals (10%).
20.      The enterprise is a fully integrated aerosol producer, inclusive of valve and can
manufacturing capability. The aerosol product mix involves a wide range of individual brand
names, broadly distributed among five product lines as follows: hair spray (46%), deodorants
(15 %), insecticides (18 %), cosmetic creams (15 %) and air fresheners (6%). It has an installed
capacity of 40 million cans per year. In 1992, 33 million units were produced, consuming
2,380 MT of CFC. Production levels have been maintained since that time with 1994
production and consumption being 34 million cans and 2,456 MT of CFCs, respectively.
Projected 1995 production is 38.5 million cans with 2,921 MT of CFC consumption. In the
first nine months of 1995, 27 million cans were produced which is equivalent to 36 million
cans per year. The only other product lines produced by the enterprise are several brands of
foams and tints produced in internally made polyethylene containers. This is estimated to
account for 4.5% of total sales in 1995.
21.      The operating cost structure in the first half of 1995 was as follows: raw materials
and half-products - 81.7 %; energy - 3.8 %; salaries - 6.1 %; benefits (social costs) - 4.5 %;
and other - 4.0 %. During the first half of 1995, the average unit operating cost was estimated



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 55
to be US$ 0.35 per aerosol can. The enterprise anticipates this production cost structure to
remain fixed over the next several years with no change in unit production costs in real terms.
22.      Raw materials are primarily imported from Western Europe. Price differentials
between Russian and foreign raw materials are small and are offset by the more consistent
quality of imports. Foreign suppliers generally require advance payment, particularly for
aluminum which represents 50% of raw material cost and is purchased on the basis of 45 days
advance payments. Raw material inventories are generally no more than required for 5 days
of production.
23.      Arnest has responded to the disappearance of the former state distribution system
for consumer non-durable products and current absence a western type wholesale system by
establishing agreements with a network of small distributors.  They typically sell to
distributors on one day prepayment terms. Such contracts account for 90% of all sales,
representing 70% cash advance payment and 20% barter advance payment. The latter involves
sale against the supply of raw materials, consumables and services. Transactions on the basis
of credit arrangements are limited to approximately 10% of sales and apply to important
customers with an established credit history.
24.      The enterprise's products appear to be well received by the Russian consumer
market as reflected by the steady growth in production during the recent difficult economic
period. Approximately 95% of sales are within Russia; mainly in European Russia including
Moscow and St. Petersburg. The remainder are sold in other CIS countries with Ukraine
being the only market of individual significance. It is noted that advertising costs are very low
(0.3 % of total costs in 1994) in comparison to those of western consumer non-durable
producers.
25.      The main domestic competitor to Arnest' s products is Chilton in Kazan which
produces similar product lines in the European Russian market, but carries a 5 to 10% selling
price advantage. This is likely due to their use of inexpensive tinplate cans and cheaper HAP
propellant obtained from the Minnebayov Refinery in Almetevsk, for which they cofinanced
development of HAP production. In addition, low quality imported aerosols which have a
significant market in Russia represent another competitive factor. The average wholesale price
realized by Arnest in the first half of 1995 was approximately 3,000 RBL (US$0.67) per can
including VAT or 2,400 RBL (US$0.54) per can net of VAT.
26.      Arnest has remained in a positive cash flow position during the period 1992 to the
present. Over this period, it has increased production and sales, while making significant
capital investments in production facilities and initial investments for ODS phase-out utilizing
internally generated funds. In 1994, the enterprise had equity of US$8.0 million, no long term
debt and US$6.6 million in before tax net income.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 55
27.      The long term prospects of this enterprise appear generally positive, subject to the
various issues noted below. As a fully private enterprise with a strong base of employee and
management ownership, it appears to have a well motivated workforce and forward looking
corporate direction. Western oriented marketing practices are being developed, notably the
adoption of a comprehensive business plan and monthly market surveys of aerosol products
and prices to keep up with the competitive situation. Their business plan for 1995 assumes
production of 38.5 million aerosol cans with significant expansion to 43 million cans in 1996,
and 50 million cans from 1997. This increase in production above the current capacity of 40
million cans per year will be made possible by removing production bottlenecks, unrelated to
the conversion to HAP. In particular, Arnest has purchased used but relatively modern can
manufacturing equipment from a closed aerosol plant in Riga. This provides incremental
capacity of 10 million cans per year. Market expansion beyond its traditional areas and
particularly into export markets is being actively explored.
28.      A number of overall corporate business issues affecting the enterprise's future
prospects can be identified. Most critical is the need for conversion of its existing production
capacity from the use of ODS based propellants. This is recognized as fundamental to any
future development of the enterprise's business and in fact to its viability. The former state
enterprise initiated design work and evaluation of substitute materials in 1989 and this has
been continued by Arnest. Specific work undertaken includes building and systems design for
HAP conversion and partial construction of the propane/butane warehouse, production
buildings and final product warehouse. However, additional financing is required to continue
the conversion program. Concern has been expressed about having to import rather than
manufacture valves. This would entail a significant cost penalty. Uncertainty associated with
accessing reliable HAP supply has also been identified. The remaining issues are essentially
commercial in nature. The enterprise's competitive position will be largely determined by
price, which is currently higher than major competitors. The enterprise may be optimistic in
assuming price rises for its products in real terms for the immediate future due to competition
from both domestic and foreign producers. In fact, a real price reduction of up to 5% could
occur in order to maintain market share relative its major domestic competitor. Similarly,
expansion of production beyond 40 million cans per year may be market rather than capacity
determined in the near future.
B.    Sub-Project Objective
29.      The objective of this investment sub-project is to convert Arnest's installed aerosol
production capacity of 40 million cans per year from CFCs as propellant to HAP. Arnest has
selected HAP as its chosen technology. This decision was based on its evaluation of both
HAP and other propellants, such as DME on a trial basis, HAP's cost effectiveness, and its
technical performance in atomizing can contents. This technology selection decision is
consistent with general practice for aerosol producers of this type elsewhere and with
international practice generally.



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 55
C.    Sub-Project Scope and Description
30.      The present CFC based facilities are recognized as being inadequate for HAP
utilization in the following respects: i) present CFC storage facilities do not meet Russian
national safety standards for flammable materials and are not designed for the higher pressures
required; ii) CFC delivery and filling systems are not fire and explosion proof and poorly
located within the main production facility for handling flammable materials; iii) existing valve
production facilities can not make sufficiently reliable valves for use with HAP, since leakage
presents a significant fire risk; and iv) present warehousing of finished product within the main
plant would contravene Russian safety requirements and restrictions on quantity of material
stored within each structure or isolated room. It is also recognized that the change to HAP
will require upgrading of operational and safety related practices, and in the training of
personnel.
31.      The scope of the proposed conversion involves the retention of the existing can
manufacturing facilities which are adequate for HAP, and new investment for the replacement
of existing  filling  and  valve manufacturing  facilities, along  with   required  support
infrastructure.  The principal capital components of the overall investment consist of the
following:
i)    Propellant delivery, storage and handling facilities meeting current Russian fire
protection, design pressure and fugitive emission control standards for the safe
receiving, handling, storage and transfer of HAP;
ii)    Propellent filling lines meeting established safety standards for HAP will be
installed to replace existing CFC filling lines;
iii)    Valve production equipment and molds will be installed to replace existing CFC
valve production equipment which does not have adequate tolerances for
production of HAP valves to prevent leakage under extended storage conditions;
iv)    Finished product warehouse meeting Russian National Safety requirements
involves a separate building having segregated storage areas accommodating a
maximum of 120,000 aerosol cans per room. Each room is to be equipped with
sensors and an automatic fire fighting system;
v)    Molecular sieve safeguard purification system required to ensure reliable quality
HAP material, to be supplied by a refinery which does not have an established
record of supplying this material at the required level of quality; and
vi)    Support equipment in the form  of a unit to safely destroy defective cans
containing flammable material, and laboratory equipment required to monitor
HAP quality.



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 55
D.   Sub-Project Cost Estimates
32.      The total investment cost estimate for the proposed conversion as agreed during
appraisal is provided in Table A2. 1. This estimate defines historical costs and annual expected
expenditures by year for each major item and sub-item, expressed in June 1995 US$ and
including an overall 10% physical contingency. The installation estimates reflect actual costs
for expenditures to date and updated local construction costs accounting for the significant
inflation in such costs over the past year. Imported equipment costs have been based on
preliminary quotations from several suppliers. The total project cost estimate is
US$15,786,200, of which $5,650,000 is proposed to be provided by the GEF grant and
US$10,136,200 will be provided by Arnest. Prior to June 1995, the enterprise has spent
US$134,400 and current commitments for the period June 1995 to June 1996 are US$836,800.
These past and current commitments apply principally to HAP storage and handling facilities,
finished goods warehouse construction, general infrastructure, engineering and environmental
assessment expenditures. The cost effectiveness of the sub-project based on 1994 consumption
of CFCs and the proposed GEF grant of US$5,650,000, is US$2.30/kg. ODP. The cost
effectiveness improves to US$ 1.86/kg. ODP based on the full 40 million can per capacity,
which is estimated to consume 3,034 MT CFC. In either case, this is better than the threshold
of US$4.40/kg. ODP currently used by the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund.



MOP4AN21 .XLS3111/9e                                    TABLE  A2.1                                                       ANNtEX2
JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
COST AND FINANCING SUMMARY
(US$)
COST COMPONENT              PRE-JUNEIS5    JUNE/i - JUNE96                                               TOTAL      GEF GRANT
EXPENDITURES    EXPENDITURES            1996         1997         1998       PROJECT   ALLOCATION
_____________  (July -Dec.)  ____COST
HAP Storage and Handling Facilitis
- Preliminary Equip./Construction         95,800                                                                  95,800
ElectdricaControiLFaie                                      100,000      100,000      164.100                   364,100
-Tankage/Mechanical Equipment                                              71,700      178,000                   249,700
- Pipe, Vales and Fittings                                                 B1.000      141W000                   202,000
- Installation                                               172.000      247,000      576,500                   995,500
HAP Tank Cars (6)                                                           90,000     210,000                   300.000
HAP Filling Une (2)
- Building                                                                430,000   1120.800                  1,550,800
- Equipment                                                              1,180,000    2.000,000     358,000    3,538,000      3,638,000
- Installation                                                                                      689.000      669,000
Finished Goods Warehouse
- Lift Truck Equipment (Elevators)                                                     250,000                   250,000
- Equipment (Other)                                           55.000      200,000       52,900                   307,900
- Installation/Building                                      168,700       89,800                                256,500
Valve Making System
- Equipment and Molds                                                                2,000,000                 2,000,000      2,000.000
- Installation                                                                                      300.000      300,000
HAP Molecular Sieve                                                         60,000     136,000                    196,000       112,000
HAP OJC Equipment                                                                       43,700                    43,700
Defective Can Destruction Unit                                                                        60,000      60,000
Infrastructure Improvements
- Equipment                               24,200              44.000       40,000       50,000       40,800      199,000
- Installation                            14,200              25,000      390,000      510,000      387,900    1,327,100
Engineering                                                  100,000        50000                                150,000
Environmental Impact Aussement                                98.000                                              98.000
Import Agent Fee                                                            10,000      20,000        20,000       50,000
Import Taxes                                                                           700,000       304,000    1,004.000
Start Up Down Time                                                                                   123.000      123,000
Physical Contingency (10%)                                    76,100       300,000     818,000       282.000    1,458,100
TOTALS                                    134,200            836,800     3,319,500    8,971,000    2,524,700   15,788,2        5,850,
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
Intemal Enterprise Financing              134,200            838,800     2,079,500    4,919,000    2,166.700    10,136,200
GEF Grant                      1                                         1,240,000    4,052,000      358,000    5650,000
MOP2AN21 XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 55
TABLE A2.2
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COST SAVINGS
(Based on 1993 Production)
With CFC     With HAP    Difference    Yearly Sales    TOTAL
Product      ($/000 units)  ($/000 units)  ($/000 units)  (units/year)   SAVINGS
($/year)
Deodorant          273.74        222.70        51.04     3,000,000       153,120
Hair Spray         277.76        273.86         3.90    23,000,000        89,700
Cream              253.34        249.93         3.41     2,000,000         6,820
Air Freshener      217.52        157.38        60.14     2,000,000       120,280
Insecticide        107.67         49.89        57.69     3,000,000       173,070
TOTAL                                  j                33,000,000      542,990
NPV @10% = 542,990 + 493,627 + 448,752 + 407,956 = $1,893,325
33.     The conversion from CFC propellants to less expensive HAP' s will result in
operating cost savings. While these will not impact on the investment requirements, they
represent a benefit to the enterprise that may be realized after conversion is completed. The
estimated net present value over four years of these cost savings, based on 1993 production,
are estimated to be US$1,893,325 as summarized in Table A2.2.
E.   Sub-Project Implementation
34.     Arnest has initiated the sub-project with the investments in HAP handling
infrastructure noted above. Assuming approval and effectiveness of grant funding being
available by September 1996, the sub-project's remaining implementation will be undertaken
primarily during 1996 and 1997, with start up and commissioning occurring in the third and
fourth quarters of 1998. Figure A2.1 provides an overall implementation schedule for the
proposed sub-project. In addition to grant effectiveness, critical milestones associated with the



MOP4A2Fl .XLS3111196                                                                                              FIGURE A2.1                                                                                                               ANNEX2
JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
AC[VITY                                    1995                                  1996                                   1997                                   19 9e                                        REMARKS
0 1      02        03       C04       01        012       03        04       011       02        03        04       011       0L2       03        CA4
Grant Documentation end Approval
GEF Grant Negotiations m
Bowrd Preantation                                                                                                                                                                                       Board Presentation Mrdch 96
Grant Agreement Esecution                                                                                                                                                                               Grant Effectiwnvess -June 30/96
Sub-Grant AgrSeemnt                                                                                                                                                                                     CPPIIAmest to finalize by Negotiations
Procurement Specmicaann- Mio, Equip.                                                                                                                                                                    Cffl Project Preparation Assistance
Dotalied Engineering                                                                                       _ -                                                                                          Amest lesponsibility - Local supplY
Environn mtantt Imptst Assxssnienl                                                     _        _Banka approval s condition of fdibursemernt
Regulatory Approvals                                                                                                                                                                                    Bank approval as condition of disbursement
HAP Storage nd Handing Facdities                                                                                                                                                                        Arnest responsibility - Local supply
HAP Rail Cars
- Tende                                                                               __                                                                                                               IS Procurement Practc to quality f
-Equiprnent Supply                                                                                                 -sub-grant funding (Contingency)
HAP dliring Line
-Tendr                                                                                                                                                                                                ICB Procurement Practice to qualify for
- Eqtipnent Supply                                                                                                                                                                                     sub-grant funding
. lnstallation
- Training and Comnissioning
Valve Making Equipmtet and Molds
-Tender                                                                                                                                                                                               [CB Procurement Practice to qualify tot
- Equipment Supply (Valsesl                                                                                                                                                                            sub-grant funding
Equipnent Suppqt IMoldsl                                                                                                             -         _
-Instatlation
- Training and Comrnbssinning
HAP Moleculw St"ee
- Tender                                                                                                                                                                                               IS Procurment Prctice to quality f_r
Equipment Supply                                                                                                                                                                                      sub-grant funing
HAP OJA Equipment                                                                                                                                                                                       IS Procurement Practice to qualify for
- TEnder                                                                                                                                                                                               sub-grant funding (Contingencyl
-Equipmetnt Supply
DefectIve Can Destruction  _nit
-TenKder                                                                                                                                                                                               Arnest responsibility - Local supply
-Equipment Supply
Finished Goods Warahouse
-Eivator EquiPmenw  Tender                                                          _        _          _     f                                                                                       IS Procurement Praetice to qu aliy for
-uElevator Equipment  S_pply_instag_                                                                                                                                                                  sub-grant funding (Contingencyl
tldmng Construction                                                                                                                                                                                  Arntut responsibility - Local supply
lntraslructura kWtprovmtu                                          _         _         _                                                                                                                 Anesti responsibilty - Local sUpplY
CommIssionIng and Staru                                                                                                                                                                                 Amest raeponsbidrt - Local sutpply
MOP4A2F1 XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 55
schedule are identified as: i) receipt of necessary environmental and safety approvals; ii)
procurement and supply of filling lines; and iii) procurement and supply of valve making
equipment and molds.
35.      A procurement plan was developed at appraisal. It is based on the allocation of
grant resources to critical imported equipment, and the procurement from Arnest's resources
of other equipment and services likely to be available in Russia, or former CIS countries.
World Bank procurement practices, as set out in "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995" will apply to goods to which grant resources are
applied. More specifically, International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be undertaken for
two packages: the HAP filling line equipment US$3,538,000, and the valve manufacturing
equipment and molds US$2,000,00. International Shopping (IS) will be applied to the
procurement of the HAP molecular sieve (US$196,000), for which at least a portion
(US$112,000) of the cost will be covered by the grant. Arnest consider the cost estimates for
the major equipment to be high and grant resources could potentially be available for other
expenditures. For this reason, procurement of the ICB packages have already been initiated
with the support of the CPPI in order to accommodate the lengthy ICB process such that prices
can be fixed as early as possible. In order to ensure that other expenditures will qualify for
grant funding if lower prices are obtained, IS procedures will be applied to three other
packages: the HAP rail cars (US$300,000), HAP quality control equipment (US$44,000), and
the warehouse elevators (US$250,000). A summary of the proposed procurement plan is
provided in Table A2.3.
36.      Arnest was able to demonstrate that several areas of uncertainty associated with the
sub-project identified during preparation had been resolved. Firstly, extensive research and
procurement planning had been undertaken related to the acquisition of valve manufacturing
equipment and molds. Early indications were that suppliers would not be available for this
equipment and Arnest might be forced to import valves. This would have added an estimated
US$0.08 to the unit cost of each can.  However, at least three international valve
manufacturing equipment suppliers in more than two countries have been identified and have
supplied preliminary quotations. This provides confirmation that valve making rather than
purchase is feasible and that competitive pricing of equipment can be obtained.
37.      The second area of technical uncertainty relates to the presently constrained
availability of domestically produced HAP. In response, Arnest has been part of the initiative
to develop this capability at the Neftekumsky Refinery, through provision of feasibility study
funding. With financing from local governments, this refinery is proceeding to develop
approximately 10,000 MT/year of HAP supply capacity, of which Arnest will provide a base
market for 2,000 to 4,000 MT/year.  A guaranteed supply arrangement at a price of
approximately US$500/MT is currently being negotiated. In addition, a molecular sieve has
been included in the sub-project investment to assure quality of material delivered from
relatively new producers.



TABLEA2.3
JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
DESCRIPTION OF GOODS,              ESTIMATED      PROPOSED                   REMARKS
WORKS OR SERVICES                 PACKAGE    PROCUREMENT
AMOUNT        PROCEDURE
(US$)
HAP Storage & Handling Fadlities
- Preliminary Equipment Supptyllntalatbn        104,500  Local Shopping  Enterprie Financed
- Elcrical, Controls. Flr ProtectIon Systems    401,610  Local Shopping  Enterprise Fhianced
- Tankage and Pumps                             274,670  Local Shopping  Enterprie Fianced
- Pipe, Valves and Fktngs                       222,200  Local Shopping  Enterprise Financed
- Installatlon                                 1,094,500  Local Shopping  Enterprise Financed
HAP Tank Cars (6)                                330,000       iS        Contingency Item for GEF Fundhig
HAP Filing Line (2)
- Bullding                                     1,705,880  Local Shopping  Enterpris Financed
- Filling Une Equipment                        3,891,800      ICB       GEF Funded
- Installation                                  735,900  Local Shopping  Enterprise Financed
Finished Goods Wsrehouse
- Lft Tnuck Equipment (Elevator)                275,000       IS        Contingency Item br GEF Funding
- Equlprnent/Furnuhhgs                          338,690  Locai Shopping  Enterprise Financed
- InstilatIon - Building                        282,150  Local Shopping  Enterprise Finnced
Valve Making Production Une
- Valve Production Equipment                   2,200,000      ICe       GEF Funded
- Valve Making Equipment
- Molds
- Installatlon                                  330,000  Local Shopping  Enterprise Financed
HAP Molwcular Sieve                              215,600       IS        GEF Funded (Partially)
HAP O/C Equipmernt                                48,070     NS /IS     Contingency Item for GEF Funding
DefectIve Can Deductlion Unit                     66,000  Local Shopping  Enteprlse Financed
Infrlstructure Improveennt
- Equlpment                                     218.900  Local Shopping  Enterprise Financed
- Installation                                 1.459,810  Local Shopping  Enterprise Financed
Engineering                                      165,000    Sole Source   Enterprise Financed
Environmental Impact Assessment                  107.800    Sole Source   Enterprie Financed
_,080     TOTAL GEF FUNDED PROCUREMENT:
14,468,080          CB: USS5,538.000
IS:  US$112,000
Note: JSC Arnest will apply IS procedures to an additional US$598,000 of equipment purchasing in order to allow re-allocation
of grant funding to these commitbnents in the event that the presently proposed ICB and IS grant funded purchases be less than estimated.
MOP4AN23.XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 17 of 55
38.      A preliminary environmental impact statement on the proposed sub-project has been
prepared. It identified the major issues as those associated with the increased release of volatile
organic compounds (VOC's) and the increased safety and fire risk, both of which are a
consequence of using flammable HAP. A more detailed assessment is being prepared based on
site specific plans and detailed engineering. This will be submitted to local authorities for
review and amendment of Arnest's existing permit. Since this development is viewed as a
modification of an existing permitted facility, no new permit is required. A number of other
environmental compliance issues associated with Arnest's present operations were also
identified by the local environmental authorities. These include: i) waste and storm water
discharge quality from the site and the need for Arnest to participate in the development of a
treatment plant for a number of local enterprises, and ii) solid industrial waste disposal
practices. It was also noted that other regulatory approvals would be required from agencies
responsible for workplace health and safety and these would be undertaken during detailed
design. It is understood that all local and national environmental and safety approvals, as well
as submission of acceptable environmental assessment information for World Bank review as a
Category "B" project would be a condition of sub-grant disbursement.
39.      Arnest's capacity to manage the sub-project's implementation appears generally
adequate, recognizing that limited direct experience with Bank or western commercial and
procurement arrangements exists. The enterprise has maintained and operated a relatively
modern and efficient facility through the recent period of economic transition. In addition they
have undertaken significant preliminary capital works associated with this sub-project.
Finally, they have identified experienced technical and project implementation support through
the successor to the institute in Kiev, which has historically provided these services to the
sector. However, the appraisal mission noted several areas related to project implementation
that would require continuing support and assistance. These are: i) undertaking environmental
impact assessment of the development; ii) development of technical specifications for foreign
equipment; and iii) administering procurement procedures in accordance with World Bank
competitive bidding practices.
F.    Enterprise Financial Evaluation
40.      An enterprise financial evaluation was performed to test Arnest's ability to sustain
its financial contribution to the ODS phase-out investment, as well as confirming the
enterprise's overall viability. This was accomplished by; i) reviewing its accounting and
management information systems; ii) noting significant aspects of the tax regime; iii) analyzing
current and recent balance sheets and income statements; and iv) identifying significant
business issues and risks. This information was then used to develop a conservative financial
projection for the enterprise including the proposed sub-project.



ANNEX 2
Page 18 of 55
41.      A review of Arnest's accounting system indicated that, like most such enterprises in
Russia, it is designed to serve traditional state planning and tax calculation objectives. The
accounting system as well as the tax system are currently in a state of flux, with new regional
and federal taxes being added faster than accounting forms can be changed. Similarly, tax
rates and deductibility rules change frequently. The current system does provide the mandatory
annual and quarterly statements covering balance sheets, and profit and loss. The information
utilized in these statements is collected on a monthly basis and is used in this form by
management for internal control purposes as well. No review of these statements by an
external auditor has been traditionally undertaken but they have been certified by the regional
tax inspection authorities. Statements are not published, but rather are reported verbally to a
meeting of shareholders. It should also be noted that external auditing will be mandatory,
starting in the 1995 financial year and JSC Arnest are making arrangements for this. The
analysis provided below assumes that the unaudited statements give a full and true picture of
enterprise's financial situation.
42.      While a formal western style management information system is not operated by the
enterprise, a system of "analytical accounts" is maintained. These provide an accounting of
inventory and itemized costs for reporting periods. However, the ability to undertake cash
flow analysis or real value analysis within the current inflationary environment is limited,
something that represents a business risk. The enterprise recognizes the limitations of its
present financial management system and is beginning to address these concerns. In this
regard, a comprehensive business plan  has been developed with  western  consulting
assistance.
43.      The significant features of the current tax system impacting on Arnest's financial
situation and its ability to handle it's portion of the investment are:
i)    Taxable income is reduced by capital investment in the current tax year up to 50%
of taxable income. No carry over from year to year is permitted.
ii)    The GEF sub-grant is considered taxable income on the income statement but will
be deductible from taxable income to the extent that it is invested in the year in
which it is received, subject to the overall limitation of investment deductions being
limited to 50% of taxable income.
iii)   Depreciation on the value of fix assets is tax deductible, allowing a double tax shield
on investments (deprecation rates used by Arnest are 10 to 12 years for equipment
and 40 years for buildings).
iv)    Assets are revalued annually to account for inflation using official factors, even
though this is recognized as not necessarily reflecting the actual market value of
assets.



ANNEX 2
Page 19 of 55
v)    Revaluing assets to their market value can be undertaken and has the benefit of a
lower asset tax rate (2%) than the tax benefit derived from depreciation, which, for
equipment, is estimated to be 3.5%. JSC Arnest will undertake a market
revaluation at the end of the 1995 financial year.
44.      A conventional balance sheet was developed during appraisal for the years 1992
through to the first half of 1995. This is provided in Table A2.4 and indicates the following
significant points related to Arnest's current financial position at the end of the second quarter
of 1995: i) total equity of US$8.6 million; ii) no long term debt; iii) US$0.9 million in cash
and receivables; iv) US$1.53 million and US$0.9 million in working capital tied up in
inventories and prepayment to suppliers (mainly of aluminum), respectively; v) US$3.3
million in current assets; and vi) US$1.7 million in current liabilities. While the company
exhibits a reasonable current asset to liability ratio (1.94), most of these assets are tied up in
inventories and advance payments resulting in a lower current asset to liability ratio when
adjusted for these items. While this may be mitigated to some degree by management's ability
to control some current liabilities (consumption fund contributions, future expenses, and in
kind transactions for payables), it reflects a restraint on available working capital. A small
credit facility (500 million RBL) has recently been established to provide short term financing
(2-3 days per month) in response to this constraint.
45.      The mission identified the availability of working capital as a potential risk. While
working capital is generally adequate for current operations, it was concluded that short falls
would likely occur when production is being expanded, especially during the period in which
extensive capital expenditures were required for the ODS phase-out investments. Arnest were
encouraged to increase access to working capital in the future by increasing contributions of
after-tax cash flow to the Accumulation Fund, or establishment of a larger credit facility. The
enterprise management acknowledges this issue and are investigating a longer term credit line
of 10 billion RBL (US$ 2.2 million) to support the ODS phase-out investments. However, the
high cost of utilizing such a facility remains a constraint.



MOP4AN24.XLS3/1 1/96                                                                                    ANNEX-2
TABLEA2.4
JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
SUMMARY CORPORATE BALANCE SHEET
1992        1993        1994        1995
______  First Half
Total Fixed Assets                   2,003,863    3,266,594    5,055,739    6,967,700
Revalued Fixed Assets              2,522,143    6,068,167    6,644,346    7,815,310
Accumulated Depreciation           1,298,103    3,190,516    3,158,242    2,855,154
Assets under Construction            779,823     388,943    1,569,635    2,007,545
Intangibles
Long Term Investments                   3,429       4,374        7,775
Long Term Receivables                               11,028
Current Assets (A)                   1,933,200    1,778,507    3,977,330    3,298,888
Cash                                  6,560        1,100    299,086       74,381
Receivables                         511,394     355,275     584,788      450,135
Goods Shipped                                               404,397      342,098
Advance Payments to Suppliers (B*)  706,000     406,973     855,607      902,509
Inventories (B)                     709,246    1,015,159    1,833,454    1,529,765
Other
Deferred Costs                            280         493      31,363       52,452
Total Assets                         3,940,771    5,060,995    9,072,207   10,319,040
Total Equity (C)                     2,494,491    3,904,991    7,152,374    8,620,891
Long Termn Debt (F)
Financial Investments
Total Current Liabilities (D)        1,446,280    1,155,010    1,919,833    1,698,149
Payables                           1,174,371    566,431     860,000      946,661
Advances                             13,137      78,258     218,645      206,594
Short Term Loans                    258,771     279,275                   77,778
Other                                           231,047     841,189      467,117
Deferred Income                              0           0           0           0
Total Equity/Liabilities (E)         3,940,771    5,060,995    9,072,207   10,319,040
Current Ratio (A/D)                       1.34        1.54        2.07        1.94
Quick Ratio ((A-B)ID)                    0.85        0.66         1.12        1.04
Quick Ratio* ((A-B-B*)/D)                0.36        0.31         0.67        0.51
Debt:Equity Ratio ((F/(F+C))
MOP4AN24.XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 21 of 55
46.      The enterprise income statement developed during appraisal for the years 1992
through to the first half of 1995 is provided in Table A2.5. This shows that Arnest has
positive and growing after tax income over the period considered, and has been able to finance
new investment from internal cash generation, as well as provide for other income distribution
obligations, namely preferred and ordinary share dividends, additions to working capital
funds and social infrastructure allocations. However, it is also apparent that the higher
investment requirements after full commitment to ODS phase-out will require a larger share of
available cash flow, and, if financed internally, will require reductions in allocations to other
income demands.
47.      Utilizing the information developed during appraisal, a conservative model for
projection of financial performance was developed to test Arnest's ability to finance their
portion of the overall investment in the proposed sub-project (Table A2.6).  The two
conservative assumptions applied concurrently in the projections were: i) production volume
does not increase above the current 40 million cans per year, and ii) real prices of Arnest's
products are reduced by 5% to match their main competitor. It is noted that the enterprise
business plan forecasts increasing production to 50 million cans by 1997 and no reduction in
price. The results of this model are provided in Table A2.6. This indicates that even under
these conservative assumptions, Arnest will be able to finance its portion of the ODS phase-out
investment, provided the shortfall of US$1.4 million projected for 1997 is allocated from after
tax surplus from 1996.



MOP4AN25.XLS3/1 1/96                                                                                              ANNEX2
TABLE Al.
JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
SUMMARY CORPORATE INCOME STATEMENT
1992          1993           1994           1995
First Half
INPUT ASSUMPTIONS
# aerosol cans produced and sold                     31,122,000     29,352,000     33,900,000     17,066,000
Average production cost per aerosol can                    0.11          0.14           0.32           0.35
Average wholesale price aerosols                           0.22           0.27          0.65           0.67
Average selling price per can (net of VAT)                 0.18           0.23          0.53            0.54
Gross Sales Revenue (Total)                           6,846,274      8,017,464     22,145,153     11,391,660
NET SALES REVENUES (A)                                5,617,846      6,610,951     17,819,663      9,192,929
OPERATING EXPENSE (B)                                 3,379,920      4,240,519     10,853,841      5,974,234
Raw materials and half products                      na           3,060,032      8,157,944      4,879,060
Energy                                               na             188,442        528,520        227,648
Salaries                                             na             494,113        909,548        363,007
Benefits (Social costs)                              na              26,609        625,483        270,717
Other                                                na             471,323        632,347        239,954
NET OPERATING INCOME                                  2,237,926      2,370,433      6,965,823      3,218,695
BEFORE DEPRECIATION
TOTAL DEPRECIATION (C)                                   21,686         14,836        157,487        116,901
Depreciation                                          21,686         14,836        157,487        116,901
Project Depreciation
NET OPERATING INCOME                                  2,216,240      2,355,596      6,808,336      3,101,794
BEFORE INTEREST (D)
Interest on Bank Credits                                            126,935         79,169         61,527
NET OPERATING INCOME                                  2,216,240      2,228,662      6,729,167      3,040,268
Trading Income                                                            (895)                       35,890
Net Other Revenues (non-realized), including:            21,726          9,999       (102,667)      (118,114)
Stocks, bonds, and participation                          886            376          3,992
Foreign currency exchange rates gains & losses                           140         14,347           (530)
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                                 2,234,503      2,237,906      6,626,500      2,958,044
Special Tax Deductions (investments and social costs)   222,160       440,959         899,202       748,734
Profit tax (35% of income after deductions)             780,811       735,802       2,236,607       663,388
NET INCOME AFTER TAX                                  1,453,691      1,502,104      4,389,893      2,294,656
Add Back Depreciation                                    21,686         14,836        157,487        116,901
Net Cash Flow                                         1,475,377      1,516,940      4,547,380      2,411,557
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Preferred Share Dividend (10% of Net)                   145,369        150,210       438,989        229,466
Available for Investments and Distributions           1,330,008      1,366,730      4,108,391      2,182,091
Enterprise Investments (non ODS)                        381,457       379,133        379,058        186,823
Enterprise Invest (ODS Project)                                                      410,647        560,468
Available for Other Distributions                       948,551        987,597      3,318,686      1,434,801
MOP4AN25.XLS



MOP4AN26.XLS3/11/96                                      TABLE A2.6                                                    ANNEX2
JSC ARNEST HAP AEROSOL CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
CORPORATE FINANCIAL PROJECTION
1994         1995          1995          1996          1997          199S
First Half    Full year                       _
INPUT ASSUMPTIONS
# aeosol cans produced and sold                  33,900,000    17,066,000    36,000,000    40,000,000    40,000,000    40,000,000
Average production cost per aerosol can                0.32          0.35         0.35          0.35          0.35          0.35
Average wholesale price aerosols                       0.65          0.67          0.67         0.64          0.64          0.64
Average selling price per can (net of VAT)             0.53          0.54          0.54         0.51          0.51          0.51
Gross Sales Revenue (Total)                      22,145,153    11,391,660    24,120,006    25,600,000    25,600,000    25,600,000
NET SALES REVENUES (A)                           17,819,663     9,192,929    19,464,547    20,400,000    20,400,000    20,400,000
OPERATING EXPENSE (B)                            10,853,841     5,974,234    12,600,000    14,000,000    14,000,000    14,000,000
Raw materials and half products                 8,157,944     4,879,060    10,290,216
Energy                                           528,520       227,648       480,124
Salaries                                         909,548       363,007       765,602
Benefits (Social costs)                          625,483       270,717       570,958
Otha                                             632,347       239,954       493,100
NET OPERATING INCOME                              6,965,823     3,218,695     6,864,547     6,400,000     6,400,000     6,400,000
BEFORE DEPRECIATION
TOTAL DEPRECIATION (C)                              157,487       116,901
Depreciation                                      157,487      116,901
Project Depreciation
NET OPERATING INCOME                              6,808,336     3,101,794     6,864,547     6,400,000     6,400,000     6,400,000
BEFORE INTEREST (D)
Interest on Bank Credits                          79,169        61,527        65,527         8,000         8,000         8,000
NET OPERATING INCOME                              6,729,167     3,040,268     6,799,021     6,392,000     6,392,000     6,392,000
Trading Income                                                     35,890
NetOther Revenues (non-realized), including:       (102,667)     (118,114)                  1,240,000     4,052,000      358,000
Stocks and Bonds + GEF grant                          3,992                                 1,240,000     4.052,000      358,000
Foreign Currency exchange gains and losses           14,347         (530)
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                             6,626,500     2,958,044     6,799,021     7,632,000    10,444,000     6,750,000
Special Tax Deductions (investments and social costs)  899,202    748,734     1.497,468     3,315,000     5,222,000     2,524,000
Profit tax (35% of income after deductions)       2,236,607       663,388     1,855,543     1,755,000     2,402,000     1,816,000
NET INCOME AFTER TAX                              4,389,893     2,294,656     4,943,477     5,877,000     8,042,000     4,934,000
Add Back Depreciation                               157,487       116,901
Net Cash Flow                                     4,547,380     2,411,557     4,943,477     5,877,000     8.042,000     4,934,000
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Preferred Share dividend (10% of Net-GEF grant)     438,989       229,466       494,348      463,700       463,700       463,700
Available for Investments and Distributions       4,108,391     2,182,091     4,449,130     5,413,000     7,575,000     4,470,000
Enterprise Investments (non ODS)                    379,058       186,823      666,667
Enterprise Invest in ODS + GEF grant                410,647       134,200       836,800     3,315,000     8,971,000     2,525,000
Available for Other Distributions                 3,318,686     1,434,801     2,945,663     2,098,000    (1,396,000)    1,945,000
Memorandum Item: GEF Grant Investment                                                       1,240,000     4,052,000      358,000
MOP4AN26.XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 24 of 55
II. JSC KRASNOYARSK REFRIGERATOR PLANT "BIRYUSA"
HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION
A.   Enterprise Background
48.      KRP is a joint stock company located at Krasnoyarsk, in the Siberian Region of the
Russian Federation. It is Russia's largest manufacturer of domestic refrigeration products,
specifically refrigerators, freezers and compressors and this is its sole business. With a
annual production capacity of 750,000 units and 1,000,000 compressors per year, it accounts
for approximately  21 %  of national production.   The enterprise currently  employs
approximately 6,500 people. It was established in 1964 with a capacity of 300,000 units
which has been increased to present levels in two phases since that time.  Compressor
manufacturing utilizing imported equipment was added in 1971. The manufacturing operation
is located within the boundaries of a military industrial complex that was previously its parent.
The operation consists of a compressor plant, two refrigerator and freezer assembly lines,
three refrigerator circuit assembly lines, three door and three cabinet foaming lines. Ten
different models are made, including table/minibar models, two chamber refrigerator freezers
up to 270 liter capacity and freezers to 220 liter capacity. The compressors manufactured are
of the scotch yoke type and are used in the enterprises own product lines directly, or as
replacements through their service network.
49.      In  1992, the management of KRP was separated from the military industrial
complex (Krasmash) that it was originally part of and established as an open joint stock
company. In 1994, it was privatized. Ownership is distributed in freely traded common
shares, distributed as follows: employees of Krasmash (20%); employees of KRP (31 %); State
Property Fund of Krasnoyarsk (15%), First Voucher Fund (19%); and other small investors
(15%). The State Property Fund is currently reducing its interest to 10% through sale of
shares on a local stock exchange.
50.      In recent years, KRP has operated at close to or above capacity  (750,000 units)
with annual unit production as follows: 1992 -737,000 units; 1993 - 767,000; and 1994 -
743,000 units. However, sales are projected to fall in 1995 to 684,000 units as restrictions on
sales of CFC based technology come into force in its traditional Western European export
markets. KRP have responded by undertaking the conversion of one refrigerant charging line
with an installed annual production capacity of 100,000 units, where HFC-134a is being used
as a drop-in refrigerant charge into existing compressors. A cyclopentane conversion of one
relatively modern foam blowing line of similar capacity has also been completed. This interim
conversion is expected to allow limited re-entry into the Western European market and allow a
return to at least historical production levels. This conversion is not part of the current GEF
funded sub-project and the enterprise is not seeking any retroactive grant support for it. In the



ANNEX 2
Page 25 of 55
longer term, the enterprise has a capital expansion plan to increase capacity to 1,000,000 units
per year with annual compressor production capacity being expanded to 1,500,000 units.
51.      In 1994 when production was near nominal capacity , ODS consumption was 135
MT/year of CFC 12 refrigerant and 302 MT/year of CFC 11 for foam blowing. However,
with the drop in sales projected for 1995 and the prior conversion of production capacity
(100,000 units) to non-ODS materials, the replacement capacity of the plant is considered to be
650,000 refrigerators/freezers, net of exports, with a CFC-phase-out of 117 MT/year
associated with the refrigerant conversion sub-project currently being appraised.
52.      Expansion of compressor production is contingent upon the installation of a new
imported compressor manufacturing line that has recently been delivered. However, several
technical and commercial uncertainties apply to this. The Japanese manufactured equipment
is part of an arrangement made by the former Soviet Government for the supply of three such
lines under the terms of Japanese EXIM Bank financing in 1991. The lines, which were
designed for CFC-12, were supplied to Baranovich (now Atlant) in Belarus and the Orsk
Mechanical plant, as well as KRP.  Atlant has installed and converted its line and the
installation and conversion at ORSK is currently underway. However, KRP have only
recently taken delivery of the equipment and preparatory work required for conversion to
HFC-134a has just begun. In addition, commercial issues related to repayment terms and
customs duties remain to be resolved.
53.      The operating cost structure for KRP's manufacturing operation in the first half of
1995 was as follows: raw materials - 46%; half-products - 20.2 %; energy - 6.7 %; salaries
and benefits (social costs) - 15.6 %; and other (including interest) - 10.9 %. The principal
raw materials are polyester, sheet metal, paints, and polyol which have traditionally been
purchased from suppliers within the FSU that exercise monopoly pricing and require advanced
payment.  A program  now exists to identify and utilize alternative suppliers to create
competitive pricing and payment terms. This has been successful for polyol, paint, and
brushes.
54.      KRP's primary market is in the Russian Federation, where it is recognized as
among the highest quality of domestically produced products. It's primary competition is from
NLMK "Sintol" in Lipetsk which has a new facility producing an Italian designed product.
KRP has also enjoyed a strong export market in the UK, Germany, France, and Australia that
has historically accounted for 30 % of sales. The loss of Western European markets as noted
above has dropped exports to 10% of sales in 1995, although the positive prospects exist for
their recovery with the interim conversions now being completed and ultimately when
complete conversion occurs. In 1995, projected exports outside the FSU are 55,000 units,
with 7,000 units being exported to other FSU countries.



ANNEX 2
Page 26 of 55
55.      Marketing is done mainly through a network of technical service centers in which
KRP maintains a majority interest in partnership with the local operators. Fifty seven such
centers are operated in Russia, along with fifteen in Kazakstan and one in the Kyrgyz
Republic. In addition, sales are made through a network of wholesale dealers, directly to bulk
purchasers such as hotels, and through a developing group of retailers of which approximately
150 carry KRP products in Russia. Sales are made primarily on the basis of advance payment
with some credit being extended to sound customers and some barter sales with suppliers of
raw materials and energy being used. KRP also has servicing contract arrangements with a
number of service enterprises to allow warranty and after sales work to be done.
56.      KRP has remained in a positive cash flow position during the period 1992 to the
present. Over this period, it has maintained production and sales, while initiating capital
investments in modernizing production facilities and initial investments for ODS phase-out
utilizing internally generated funds. In 1994, the enterprise had equity of US$93.0 million,
US$ 59.0 million in long term debt related primarily to supplier credits financed by the
Japanese EXIM Bank and US$36.6 million in before tax net income. Results for the first half
of 1995 are less positive due to a decline in margins from 34% in 1994 to 21% for the first
half of 1995. Income before tax in this period was US$7.6 million. This decline in financial
performance is directly attributable to the loss of European export markets.
57.      The long term prospects of this enterprise appear generally positive, subject to the
various issues noted below. As a fully private enterprise with a strong base of employee
ownership, it appears to have a well motivated workforce, strong in-house technical capability,
and forward looking corporate direction. Initiatives to regain export markets are positive as
are long term plans for modernization. The latter is considered particularly important given
the relatively low level of automation in the assembly operations and somewhat dated design
of the products, particularly the compressors.
B.    Sub-Project Objective
58.      The objective of this investment sub-project is to convert KRP's installed domestic
refrigerator and freezer production capacity of 650,000 units (net of converted capacity
intended for exports) from using CFC-12 to a propane/butane mixture as refrigerant. KRP's
selection of hydrocarbon technology was based on its evaluation of  its  long term
compatibility with its present compressor design and the fact that this type of technology is
favored in some Western European markets to which the company has traditionally exported.



ANNEX 2
Page 27 of 55
C.    Sub-Project Description
59.      The sub-project consists of two phases: i) modifications of the testing and charging
areas, primarily involving the purchase and installation of test equipment, and trial production;
and ii) upgrading of the production facility charging line and construction of hydrocarbon
storage and handling infrastructure. A listing of the specific facility additions and activities
involved in the sub-projects is provided in Table A2.7 along with costs and schedule of
expenditures.
60.      The feasibility of simply charging the existing CFC  12 compressors with the
hydrocarbon refrigerant without any modifications was initially questioned. However, KRP
demonstrated that this was a viable arrangement, based on test results carried out by the
German refrigerator manufacturer, FORON which indicated compatibility of the CFC
compressors for use with the hydrocarbon mixture proposed by KRP. The tests also indicate a
10% increase in the energy-efficiency of the CFC compressors when charged with the
hydrocarbon mixture as compared to CFC-12.
61.      KRP have taken delivery of a new compressor manufacturing facility for producing
advanced, more energy efficient compressors which, while initially designed for CFC-12, are
capable of using hydrocarbon mixtures. However, this facility has not been installed and
some uncertainty remains respecting financing arrangements, payment of import duties and the
condition of delivered equipment which has been held in storage for some time. It was
concluded that installation of this new line is not relevant to the technical viability of the
proposed sub-project which is based on drop in charging of existing compressors and present
production capacity. However, the financial arrangements associated with its purchase,
including repayment arrangements of a loan from the Japanese EXIM Bank, allowance for
outstanding import duties, and cost allowances for its installation are relevant to the enterprise
financial appraisal.
D.   Sub-Project Cost Estimates
62.      The current sub-project incremental investment cost has been estimated as
US$4,505,000, inclusive of US$300,000 of past expenditures in preparatory work and another
US$103,000 of expenditures anticipated prior to July 1996.  The original estimates of
expenditures were adjusted at appraisal to reflect current local costs and updated equipment
pricing. In addition a 10% physical contingency was applied for technical uncertainty in the
absence of final design and regulatory approvals. The GEF grant support from the first
tranche was set at US$1,976,000. US$410,000 of eligible expenditures were judged to be
safety-related costs. This results in a grant cost-effectiveness (net of safety costs) of US$13.38
per kg. ODP. This is slightly better than the current Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund cost



ANNELX 2
TABLE 2.7
JSC KRASNOYARSK REFRIGERATOR PLANT "BIRYUSA" HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
COST AND FINANCING SUMMARY
COST COMPONENT             PRE4JUNEI9S   JUNE/95 - JUNE 96                                       |  TOTAL    GEF GRANT
EXPENDITURES    EXPENDITURES          1996         1997        1998       PROJECT   ALLOCATION
(July -Doc.)                           COST
Preparatory Works
- Imported Charging Equipment           245.000                                                             245,000
- Modification of Conveyors             40,000                                                               40,000
- Charging Ventilation Enclosure         5,000                                                                5,000
- Installation
- Civil Works                            8,000                                                                8,000
- Equipment Installation                 2,000                                                                2.000
PHASE I
Modifications -Testing and Charging                                       9,400                                9,400
Area
Test Facilities Equipment
- Refrigerant Charging Equipment                                        30,000                               30,000         30,000
- Calorimeter                                                          220,000                              220,000        220,000
- Noise & Vibration Tester                                              90,000                               90,000         90,000
Trial Production Costs                                       4,000                                             4,000
Local Training Costs                                                      9,200                                9,200
PHASE 2
Production Facility Equipment
- Helium Leak Detection System                                                     244,900                  244,900        244,900
- Refrigerant Charging Equipment                                       634,800                              634,60w        634,600
- Sealing System                                                                    30,000                   30,000         30,000
- Hydrocarbon Transfer Pumps                                            51,800                               51,600         51,600
- Vacuum Pumps                                                                      180,000                  180,000       180,000
- Foreign Training                                                       55,000                               55,000        55,000
Installation and Infrastructure
Improvements
- Dismantling CFC-12 Equipment                                                     600,000                  600,000
- Installation of Charging Equipment                                   450,000                              450.000
- Installation/Production of Gas                                                    94,500                   94.500
Tight Endosures
- Construction of Hydrocarbon                                                       890,000                 890,000        439,900
Storage Fadlities
Engineering                                                 50,000                                            50,000
Environmental Impad Assessment                              40,000                                            40,000
Import Taxes                                                             93,900      45,500                  139,400
Contingency (10%)                                            9,400      164,400     208,500                  382,300
ITOTALS                                  300,000            103,400    1,808,100   2,293,400                4,504,900     1,978,000
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
Intemal Enterprise Financing           300,000.0           103,400      726,900   2,293,400 |               2,528,000
GEF Grant                                                              1,081,300    894,700                 1.976,000
MOP4AN27.XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 29 of 55
effectiveness threshold of US$13.76 per kg-ODP for domestic refrigeration conversion
projects.
63.     The conversion from CFC-12 to hydrocarbons results in increased incremental
operating costs due to product design changes associated in locating switches outside of the
cabinet, and costs associated with using the technology selected for the sealing the charging
stub. While not to be financed by the sub-grant, these are a legitimate sub-project costs that
will be borne by the enterprise in its future operations. The NPV of these costs over four
years are calculated to be US$2,211,000.
E.   Sub-Project Implementation
64.      The sub-project implementation  schedule, assuming grant effectiveness by
September, 1996, extends over a two-year period, beginning with detailed engineering,
environmental assessment and initiation of critical procurement early in 1996 and completion
expected early in 1998. This schedule is provided in Figure A2.2.
65.     A procurement plan was developed at appraisal for the sub-project as summarized in
Table A2.8. World Bank procedures, as set out in "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995" will apply to goods to which grant resources are
applied. The sub-grant was allocated to cover the complete purchase of several imported
equipment packages. International Shopping (IS) procedures would apply to a number of
equipment packages (US$1,536,000) of imported equipment for the test facilities. In addition,
a portion (US$440,000) of the hydrocarbon storage facility would be covered by the sub-
grant.  Construction of these facilities would be undertaken using National Competitive
Bidding procedures.  KRP were advised that preparation of specifications and bidding
documents for the IS packages should start immediately upon confirmation of GEF funding in
order to maintain the proposed schedule. The CPPI undertook to assist in the preparation of
the procurement packages for IS and ICB.
66.     It was determined that KRP is assured of a secure propane supply from a nearby
refinery. An agreement-in-principle for guaranteed supply has been reached, and long-term
supply negotiations are currently in progress. The small quantities of isobutane required (20
MT/year) will be procured internationally, where it is readily available at competitive prices.
67.      The enterprise has yet to prepare an environmental impact assessment of the
proposed sub-project. This will be prepared on completion of final design for submission to
the Regional Environmental Committee Inspectorate for review and approval. The mission
indicated that this approval, along with an EA prepared in accordance with World Bank
Category B requirements would be conditions of sub-grant disbursement. The World Bank
EA requirements have been supplied to the enterprise by the CPPI.



ANNEX 2
Page 30 of 55
68.      KRP's's capacity to manage the sub-project's implementation appears generally
adequate, recognizing that limited direct experience with Bank or western commercial and
procurement arrangements exists. The enterprise has maintained and operated a relatively
modem and efficient facility through the recent period of economic transition. In addition,
they have undertaken significant preliminary capital works associated with this sub-project.
The enterprise has strong internal technical capability related to design, research and
development and in manufacturing operations. However, several areas were noted that would
require continuing support and assistance during project implementation. These are: i)
undertaking environmental impact assessment of the development; ii) development of
technical specifications for foreign equipment; and iii) administering procurement procedures
in accordance with World Bank competitive bidding practices.



MOP4A2F2.XL53/111IS6                                                                                                    IJB2
1140MAMALS3/111196                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~FIGURE AZ2,                                                                                                      ANNEX 2
JSC KRASNOYARSK REFRIGERATOR PLANT 'BIRYUSA HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTMTY                                     19395                              1996                                 1997                                1999                                       RENIAFKS
2                   03       04       01       Q2        Q3       04       01       0L2      03        04       01    | IZ        Q3       04
Grant Documentation and Applrotal
GEF Grant Negottiont/Agreement                                                                                                                                                                  Grant Effectiveness -June 30/96
Sub-Grant Agreement                                                                                                                                                                             CPPI/KRP to finalize by Negotiations
Procurement Specilstioasna  Mapr Eqtip.                                                                                                                                                         CPPI Project Preparation Assisthnce
Detaied En_gqering                                                                                                                                                                              KRP responsibility - Local supply
Enniromtental Impact Assesnoet                                                                                                                                                                  Bank approval as condition of disbursement
Regulatory Approvals                                                                                                                                                                            Bank appro-al a condition of disburaement
Preparatory Works                                                                                                                                                                               KRP zesponsibitty - Local suptpl
PhesI
Modificrtbons - Tast and Charging Area                                                                                                                                                          KRP responsibility - Local supply
Test Facilities Eqripment
tat Refrigerant Chlrrsigk Equipment
T Tnnder                                                                                                                                                                                    IS Procedurte IGEF Sub-Grant Fundedl
- Equipment Supply
bI Calcomtint,
1 Tnder                                                                                                                                                                                    IS Procedures IGEF Sub-Grnt Fundedl
-Eqrpmant Supply
Icl Nois and Vibration Tester
- Ternde                                                                                                                                                                                     IS Procedures IGEF Sub-Grant Fundedl
- Equipment Supply
Tral Productin_
Local Training
Phase
Productoon Facility Eluipment
(a) Tender Equpntiet Packag_                                                                                                                                                                    IS Procedures (GEF Sub-Grant Fundedl
Ib) Leak Detection System
Supply nd Ins talnlaton
(cI Charging Equipmntt Supply
(di Sealing Syntem Supply and
Installation
la) Hydrocarbon Transfer Pwanp
Supply and Installation
If) Vacuum Pump Supply and
Instaliation
Tralnin_
[nlrastructure Impronements
- Dismtntbing CFC-1 2 Equipment                                                                                                                                                                 KRP - Force Account
- Chagring Systetm IntaBition                                                                                                                                                                   KRP - Force Account
- Gu rght Enclosure Installation                                                                                                                                                                KRP - Force Account
- Hydrocarbon Storag Construction                                                                                                                                                               KRP -Force Account IPartl Uy GEF Sub-Grent
Funded)
Start Lip nd Commisirtning
MOP4A2F2 XLS



TABLE A2.8                                          ANNEX2
JSC KRASNOYARSK HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
DESCRIPTION OF GOODS,              ESTIMATED       PROPOSED                    REMARKS
WORKS OR SERVICES                 PACKAGED   PROCUREMENT
AMOUNT        PROCEDURE
(US$)
Preliiminary Works
- Charging Equipment                             264,000        IS        Enterprise Financed
- Conveyor Modifications                          44,000   Force Account Enterprise Financed
- Charging Ventilation Enclosure                   5,500   Force Account Enterprise Financed
- Installation/Civil Works                        11,000   Force Account Enterprise Financed
Test Facilities Equipment
- Refigerant Charging System                      33,000        IS        GEF Funded
- Calorimeter                                    242,000        IS        GEF Funded
- Noise and Vibration Tester                      99,000        IS        GEF Funded
Trail Production                                    4,400   Force Account  Enterprise Financed
Local Training                                     1b,120    Sole Source   Enterprise Financed
Production Line Conversion
- Helium Leak Detection Equipment                269,000        IS        GEF Funded
- Refigerant Charging Equipment                  679,000        IS       GEF Funded
- Sealing System                                  33,000        IS        GEF Funded
- Hydrocarbon Transfer Pumps                      57,000        IS       GEF Funded
- Vacum Pumps                                    198,000        IS        GEF Funded
- Foreign Training/Technical Support              61,000        IS       GEF Funded
Equipment Installation/Infrastructure Upgrading
- Dismantling of CFC-12 Equipment                660,000   Force Account Enterprise Financed
- Installation of Charging Equipment             495,000   Force Account Enterprise Financed
- Gas Tight Enclosure Construction/installation  103,950   Force Account  Enterprise Financed
- Hydrocarbon Storage Facilities Installation    979,000       NCB        Partially GEF Funded
Engineering                                        55,000    Sole Source   Enterprise Financed
Environmental Impact Assessment                    44,000    Sole Source   Enterprise Financed
4,346,970
MOP4AN28.XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 33 of 55
F.    Enterprise Financial Evaluation
69.      An enterprise financial evaluation has been performed to test KRP's ability to
sustain its financial contribution to the ODS phase-out investment, as well as confirming the
enterprise's overall financial viability. This was accomplished by; i) reviewing its accounting
and management information systems; ii) noting significant aspects of the tax regime; iii)
analyzing current and recent balance sheets and income statements; and iv) identifying
significant business issues and risks.  This information was then used to develop a
conservative financial projection for the enterprise including the proposed sub-project.
70.      A review of KRP's accounting system indicated that, like most such enterprises in
Russia, it is designed to serve traditional state planning and tax calculation objectives, rather
than for financial management of the business. In particular, there are no requirements to
prepare cash flow statements and the form of presentation of the balance sheet and income
statements are not suited to internal financial management. During the past three years the
Russian accounting system has been constantly changing. Moreover, due to high yearly rates
of inflation and constantly changing foreign exchange rates the basis for yearly comparisons of
balance sheets and income statements is tenuous at best. As a result, no attempt has been
made to adjust the statements to constant 1995 prices, but rather simply reflect the US dollar
rates for each year.
71.      Annual and quarterly reporting of balance sheet and profit and loss statements to the
Russian tax authorities are mandatory The accounts are checked by the tax inspections but no
external auditing has been required. Thus in the case of KRP, the accounts have not been
audited by an external auditor, but are certified by the regional tax inspections. The analysis
provided below assumes that the unaudited statements give a full and true picture of
enterprise's financial situation. From the full year statement for 1995, external auditing will be
mandatory.  However, at the time of appraisal a local auditing firm  had not yet been
contracted by the enterprise to carry out this audit.  The enterprise was informed that
submission of audited financial statements will be a requirement of the Sub-grant Agreement.
72.      Assets are revalued annually to reflect the impact of inflation by the use of official
coefficients for asset revaluation. The stated asset values, however, do not necessarily reflect
the actual market value of the assets. The "western format" summary balance sheet presented
in US$ (Table A2.9) uses the revalued end of period exchange rate. The following end of
year ruble exchange rate against the US$ have been used in the calculations for 1992, 1993,
1994 and the first quarter of 1995: 415; 1,250; 3,550; and 4,500 respectively. The western
format" income statements presented in Table A2.10 was converted to US$ using an average
exchange rate for the year. The following average ruble exchange rates were used in the
calculations for 1992, 1993, 1994, and the first half of 1995: 263; 830; 2,400; and 4,500
respectively.



ANNEX 2
Page34 of 55
73.      The significant features of the current tax system impacting on KRP's financial
situation and its ability to handle it's portion of the investment are:
i)    Taxable income is reduced by capital investment in the current tax year up to
50% of taxable income. No carry over from year to year is permitted;
ii)    The GEF sub-grant is considered taxable income on the income statement but
will be deductible from taxable income to the extent that it is invested in the
year in which it is received, subject to the overall limitation of investment
deductions being limited to 50% of taxable income;
iii)   Depreciation on the value of fix assets is tax deductible, allowing a double tax
shield on investments; and
iv)   Assets are revalued annually to account for inflation using official factors, even
though this is recognized as not necessarily reflecting the actual market value of
assets;
74.      A conventional balance sheet was developed during appraisal for the years 1992
through to the first half of 1995. This is provided in Table A2.9 and indicates the following
significant points related to KRP's current financial position at the end of the second quarter of
1995: i) total equity of US$113.0 million; ii) US$40.0 million in long term debt; iii) US$13.7
million in cash and receivables; iv) US$3.4 million and US$14.6 million in working capital tied
up in inventories and prepayment to suppliers respectively; v) US$30.0 million in current assets;
and vi) US$23.6 in current liabilities.
75.      The balance sheet for the end of June 1995 has been restated to reflect the purchase of
a new compressor line using the Japanese EXIM loan. The total cost of the compressor line is
US$115.0 million, for which the enterprise paid a deposit of US$11.5 million in 1991. However,
delivery of the equipment was delayed until August 1995. The final shipment is expected in
December 1995, when an additional US$5.75 million will be due. Arrangements have been
made with the Russian Government for shared payment of the loan with the enterprise
responsible for 40.8%, or US$40.0 million over a period of 9 years starting at the end of 1996.
Total interest due on the enterprise portion of the loan is approximately US$23.4 million. The
new Sanyo compressor line has been realistically valued at US$60.0 million in the mid year 1995
balance sheet statement, while the Japanese EXIM loan has been included at its face value of
US$40.0 million.
76.      While the current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) was 1.27 at the
end of June 1995, it should be noted that a significant part of the current assets are tied up in
inventories (of which 75% are raw materials) and advance payments on supplies. The quick
ratio (current assets minus inventory divided by current liabilities) was 0.65 as of the end of June
1995 and the adjusted quick ratio (current assets minus inventories and supplier advances divided



ANNEX 2
Page 35 of 55
by current liabilities) was 0.51. As shown in Table A2.9, the liquidity position of the enterprise
has deteriorated over the past two years, as a result of a decline in its export sales.
77.      The enterprise income statement developed during appraisal for the years 1992
through to the first half of 1995 is provided in Table A2. 10. This indicates that KRP generated
US$25.6 million in after tax cash flow in 1994, compared with US$21.8 million in 1993 and
US$10.9 million in 1992. In the first half of 1995 the after tax cash flow decreased to US$7.1
million reflecting a 12.5% drop in sales volume and a drop in the net operating margin from
34% to 21 % in 1995. The following factors contributed to this:
i)    Anualized sales dropped by 12.5%  in the first half of 1995 reflecting the
enterprises inability to sell ODS containing products in its traditional markets in
the OECD region;
ii)    Average production cost per unit increased by 30%  in the first half of 1995
reflecting raw material price increases and increases in employee salaries in real
terms, as well as increased costs associated with the conversion of approximately
10% of its production to ozone free products for the export market; and
iii)   Average gross revenue per unit increased by only 10% in the first half of 1995
reflecting partially the reduction in sales to the more profitable Western markets.
78.      During the period 1992-1995 after tax cash flow has been distributed to two
social/employee benefit funds and an enterprise investment fund. Approximately 17.5 % is
distributed annually to the two social/benefit funds and the balance is used to fund yearly
investments for plant modernization and maintenance. Currently there is no distribution to
shareholders. Due to the highly labor intensive nature of the manufacturing operation, this
emphasis on plant modernization is necessary for its long term viability, as will be the
investments needed to convert to non-ODS technologies. The enterprise has been consistently
cash flow positive over the past three years.



MOP4AN29.XLS3/11/96                                                                                    ANNEX 2
TABLE A2.9
JSC KRASNOYARSK HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
SUMMARY CORPORATE BALANCE SHEET
1992           1993           1994           1995
First Half
Total Fixed Assets
Revalued Fixed Assets                 8,229,648     76,722,316     98,629,787     77,787,165
Accumulated Depreciation              4,190,925     37,662,466     43,706,343     34,662,395
Assets under Construction              672,185      25,842,344     52,710,142     44,942,784
Equipment Financed by EXIM Loan                                                   60,000,000
Intangibles                                               8,745         11,326           8,626
Long Term Investments                    108,748        478,543       5,550,746      6,381,342
Long Term Receivables
Current Assets (A)                    19,338,789      4,083,974      30,674,306     30,013,707
Cash                                 3,999,145      11,359,458       314,803         136,114
Receivables                             66,155        985,622        723,079       1,972,414
Goods Shipped                        5,733,873      10,992,795     10,435,315      9,932,967
Advance Payments to Suppliers (B*)   3,143,403      2,540,720       7,414,263      3,397,321
Inventories (B)                      6,392,813     14,959,790      11,786,358     14,551,175
Other                                    3,400          1,088            389         23,716
Deferred Costs                                                                         288,647
Total Assets                          24,158,443     106,228,996    143,869,864    184,759,878
Total Equity (C)                      10,917,733     74,604,922     115,513,775    113,004,816
Long Term Debt (F)                        34,773                                    40,000,000
Financial Investments
Total Current Liabilities (D)          9,873,785      19,259,882     21,166,922     23,621,916
Payables                             6,801,268     13,587,738      15,749,825     14,647,017
Advances                                             1,266,524      1,532,741       937,110
Short Term Loans                     2,983,725      2,501,189       1,934,995      5,894,084
Other                                   54,020      1,904,432       1,949,362      2,143,704
Deferred Income                        3,366,925     10,893,792       7,189,167      8,133,147
Total Equity/Liabilities (E)          24,193,215    104,758,596     143,869,864    184,759,878
Current Ratio (AID)                         1.96           2.12           1.45            1.27
Quick Ratio ((A-B)/D)                       1.31           1.34           0.89            0.65
Quick Ratio* ((A-B-B*)/D)                   0.99           1.21           0.54            0.51
Debt:Equity Ratio ((F/(F+C))                                                              0.26
MOP4AN29.XLS



ANNE-X 2
TABLEA2.10
JSC KRASNOYARSK HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
SUMMARY CORPORATE INCOME STATEMENT
1992          193           1994           1995
First Half
INPUT ASSUMPTIONS
Number of refrigerators produced and sold              736,991       766,559        783,281       342,553
Number of compressors produced and sold (Note I)       921,239       958,199        979,101       428,191
Average production cost per unit (Note 2)                25.61         37.41          85.56         111.66
Average wholesale price per unit (Note 2)                53.92         92.29         157.60         176.20
Average selling price per unit (net of VAT)              44.48         79.35         128.75         141.25
Gross Sales Revenue (Total)                         39,737,514    70,741,911    123,443,129     60,359,426
NET SALES REVENUES (A)                              32,781,154    60,822,828    100,847,000     48,384,646
OPERATING EXPENSE (B)                               18,871,053    28,673,810     67,018,000     38,251,171
Raw materials and halfproducts                     N/A           NIA            N/A            N/A
Energy                                             N/A           N/A            N/A            N/A
Salaries                                           N/A           N/A            N/A            N/A
Benefits (Social costs)                            N/A           N/A            N/A            N/A
Other                                              N/A            N/A           N/A            N/A
NET OPERATING INCOME                                13,910,101    32,149,018     33,829,000     10,133,475
BEFORE DEPRECIATION
TOTAL DEPRECIATION (C)                                 664,199      1,009,223     2,359,000      1,346,475
NET OPERATING INCOME                                13,245,903    31,139,795     31,470,000      8,787,161
BEFORE INTEREST (D)
Interest on Bank Credits
NET OPERATING INCOME                                13,245,903    31,139,795     31,470,000      8,787,161
Trading Income                                          94,126        21,953         17,877       526,221
Net Other Revenues (non-realized), including:         (235,063)    (2,188,929)    (1,177,649)    (1,741,068)
Stocks, bonds, and participation                                    67,027        205,791          8,480
Foreign currency exchange rates gains & losses                      159,616     3,171,683          9,097
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                               13,104,966    28,972,820     30,503,000      7,572,314
Special Tax Deductions (investments and social costs)  6,552,484   14,486,410    15,251,500      2,480,782
Profit tax (35% of income after deductions)          2,553,000      6,750,000     7,278,000      1,7g2,036
NET INCOME AVFER TAX                                10,551,966    22,222,820     23,225,000      5,790,278
Add Back Depreciation                                  664,199      1,009,223     2,359,000      1,346,475
Net Cash Flow                                       11,216,165    23,232,043     25,584,000      7,136,753
Principal payments on Exim loan
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Available for Investments and Distributions         11,216,165    23,232,043     25,584,000      7,136,753
Enterprise Investments (non ODS)                     8,922,796     18,162,043    20,291,000      4,655,810
Enterprise Invest (ODS Project)
Social and Benefit Funds                             2,293,369      5,070,000     5,293,000      2,480,782
Memorandum Item: GEF Grant
Net Operational Margin                                    0.42          0.53           0.34           0.21
NOTES: 1. Assumed to be 1.25 tlmes the number of refrigerators produced and sold.
2. Average unit prices and costs apply to one refrlgeratorfreezer plus 1/4 compressor for servidng
MOP4A21 0.XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 38 of 55
79.     In order to determine if the enterprise can finance its share of the investments for
conversion to non-ODS refrigerants and foams, a conservative financial model has been
developed. The following assumptions have been made:
i)    Increased operating costs resulting from conversion to non-ODS technologies will
be born by the enterprise;
ii)    The production level of refrigerators, freezers and compressors remain at the
same depressed 1995 level for 1996, but increases to the current production
capacity of 750,000 refrigerators and freezers in 1997 and 1998 as a result of non-
ODS technology investments;
iii)   Real costs (apart from increased operational costs) and real prices per unit are
constant. However, a reduction in the 3% additional VAT charge by 1.5% in
1995 and by 1.5% in 1996 are not passed on to the consumer;
iv)   The enterprise will be required to pay a 5% import duty charge in 1995 on the
imported compressor line, even though its management believes that it will be
able to negotiate an exemption;
V)    No operating cost reduction is included as a result of installation of the new
compressor line, even though it will reduce the number of paid employees in this
section of the plant by a half compared with the existing line;
vi)   A principal repayment of US$1.0 million is assumed for the new compressor line
in 1995 and US$4.75 million in 1996. Repayment of principal and interest on the
US$40.0 million Japanese EXIM loan is assumed to begin in 1997;
vii)  Social and employee benefit funds that are distributed from the after tax income of
the enterprise is assumed to increase from 17.5% in 1995 to 20% in subsequent
years due to employee lay-offs resulting from installation of the new compressor
line; and
viii)  Additional cash flow of US$2.0 million and US$4.0 million in 1994 and 1995
will result from sale of bonds which the enterprise holds as a result of the
bankruptcy of Nasheconbank in 1991. These bonds were issued to the enterprise
by the government to cover its losses on export sales owing to it at the time of the
bank failure.



ANNEX 2
Page 39 of 55
80.      The results of the financial analysis under this conservative scenario are provided
in Table A2. 11. It indicates that the enterprise can maintain its net income before tax at the
depressed level of US$16.0 to US$17.0 million (compared with US$30.0 million in 1994)
through the critical period 1995-1998, when it is converting to non-ODS technologies
Moreover, by giving preference to funding these investments the enterprise will be able to
cover its portion of the investments out of its own after tax cash flow, but will only have about
US$4.0 million for other plant investments. This will considerably restrict its ability to fund
other critical investments in plant improvements and maintenance, which averaged US$15.0
million per year in the period 1992- 1994. Highest priority after the non-ODS technology
investments will be the installation of the new compressor line, which will absorb most of any
available investment funds in 1996 and 1997.
81.      Based on this analysis, it is concluded that KRP has the capacity to finance its
portion of the ODS investments (US$8.6 million in 1996 and US$5.6 million in 1997) from
internally generated revenue.  This includes  both the current sub-project and the foam
conversion project anticipated in the overall Project's second tranche.  This analysis is
conservative in that: sales have been limited to less than or equal to current capacity, despite
impending availability of additional capacity and re-entry into the export market; real costs and
prices are held constant at the current level keeping the operating margin at the current low
levels; and the increased operational costs under the sub-project can not be passed on to the
consumers, thereby reducing the operational margin further from 1998. With three negative
factors present at the same time, the enterprise is able to generate sufficient after tax cash flow
to finance their part of the project. However, in this scenario funds available for other critical
investments in plant modernization and maintenance in 1996 and 1997 will be very limited.
82.      The adequacy of the existing working capital under the assumptions used in the
financial projections is identified as an issue of concern. Working capital is inadequate for
current operating margins and, therefore, additional after tax cash flow will have to be
allocated to working capital further reducing the amount available for enterprise investment.
In response, KRP have make a commitment to ensuring the enterprise co-financing for the
sub-project by giving it preference to any other distribution from the cash flow after tax and
interest over a 2 to 3 year period.
83.      While KRP will be able to finance their part of the sub-project (if approved as
presented) and further will be a viable enterprise beyond its implementation, it would not have
been able to finance the full cost of the ODS phase-out investments. This implies, that the
GEF assistance is essential for the enterprise's ability to convert to ozone safe technologies
and for the long run viability of the enterprise.



ANNEX2
TABLE A2.11
JSC KRP HYDROCARBON REFRIGERANT CONVERSION SUB-PROJECT
CORPORATE FINANCIAL PROJECTION
1994          1995          1"5           196           1997           198
Fint Half     Fult Year
INPUT ASSUMPTIONS
Number of refrigerators produced and sold            783,281       342,553       685,106       685,106        750,000       750,000
Numberofcompressors produced and sold (Note 1)       979,101       428,191       856,383        856,383       937,500       937,500
Average production cost per unit (Note 2)              85.56        111.66        111.66         111.66        115.04        115.04
Average wholesale price per unit (Note 2)             157.60        176.20        176.20         176.20        176.20        176.20
Average selling price per unit (net of VAT)           128.75        141.25         145.02        146.83        146.83        146.83
Gross Sales Revenue (Total)                       123,443,129    60,359,426    120,718,852   120,718,852    120,718,852    120,718,852
NET SALES REVENUES (A)                            100,847,000    48,384,646    99,354,000   100,594,000    110,122,000    110,112,000
OPERATING EXPENSE (B)                             67,018,000     38,251,171    76,502,343    76,502,343    86,280,000     86,280,000
Raw materials and halfproducts               N/A           N/A              35,650,092  N/A           N/A           N/A
Energy                                       N/A           N/A              15,453,473  NIA           NIA           N/A
Salaries                                     N/A           N/A               5,125,657  N/A           N/A           N/A
Benefits (Social costs)                      N/A           N/A               11,934,365  N/A          N/A           N/A
Other                                        N/A           N/A               8,338,755  N/A           N/A           N/A
NET OPERATING INCOME                              33,829,000     10,133,475    22,852,000    24,092,000    23,842,000     23,842,000
BEFORE DEPRECIATION
TOTAL DEPRECIATION (C)                              2,359,000     1,346,475     2,692,629     2,692,629     2,692,629      2,692,629
NET OPERATING INCOME                              31,470,000      8,787,161    20,160,000    21,400,000    21,150,000     21,150,000
BEFORE INTEREST (D)
Interest on Bank Credits                                                       170,000       110,000      1,652,000     2,822,000
NET OPERATING INCOME                              31,470,000      8,787,161    19,990,000    21,290,000    19,498,000     18,328,000
Trading Income                                        17,877       526,221
Net Other Revenues (non-realized), including:      (1,177,649)    (1,741,068)    (2,200,000)  3,082,600        (9,500)    (2,200,000)
Stocks, bonds, and participation                   205,791          8,480                   5,282,000      2,190,500
Foreign currency exchange rates gains & losses    3,171,683         9,097
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                             30,503,000      7,572,314    17,790,000    24,372,600    19,488,500     16,128,000
Special Tax Deductions (investments and social costs)  15,251,500  2,480,782    8,895,000    12,186,300     9,744,250      8,064,000
Profit tax (35% of income after deductions)         7,278,000     1,782,036     9,984,000     5,800,700     4,638,000      3,838,000
NET INCOME AFTER TAX                              23,225,000      5,790,278     7,806,000    18,571,900    14,850,500     12,290,000
Add Back Depreciation                              2,359,000      1,346,475     4,692,629     6,692,629     2,692,629      2,692,629
Net Cash Flow                                      25,584,000     7,136,753    12,498,629    25,264,529     17,543,129    14,982,629
Principal payments on Exim loan                                                 1,000,000     4,750,000     2,820,000      4,820,000
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Available for Investments and Distributions        25,584,000     7,136,753    11,498,629    20,514,529     14,723,129    10,162,629
Enterprise Investments (non ODS)                  20,291,000      4,655,810     7,212,629     2,761,929     3,813,629      6,937,629
Enterprise Investment plus GEF grant (ODS Project)                               728,000     13,914,600     7,450,500
Social and benefit funds                           5,293,000      2,480,782     3,558,000     3,838,000     3,459,000      3,225,000
Memorandum Item: GEF Grant                                                                    5,282,600     2,190,500
Net Opertional Margin                                   0.34          0.21           0.23          0.21          0.21          0.21
NOTES: 1. Assumed to be 1.25 tmes the number of refuigeratora produced and sold.
2. Average unit prices and costs apply to one refrigerator/freezer plus 114 compressor for servicing
MOP4A21 1 .XLS



ANNEX 2
Page 41 of 55
PART 3: SECOND AND THIRD TRANCHE SUB-PROJECT DESCRIPTIONS
A.   Second Tranche Sub-Project Descriptions
84.      The following provides a summary description of the eleven investment sub-projects
proposed for the second tranche to be presented to the GEF Council in April 1996 (Schedule A
Table Al). These cover the six remaining aerosol sub-projects representing the largest
remaining ODS consumers in the sector, and five refrigeration sub-projects, which completes
phase-out in two of the largest domestic refrigerator manufacturers in Russia, as well as
undertakes phase-out in the major commercial refrigeration manufacturer. All sub-projects
have undergone OORG review and have either approved, or conditionally approved subject to
clarification as noted below.  The required additional information is currently under
preparation and where warranted changes will be made. Approval of the OORG reviewer will
be a requirement to proceed to appraisal. The total incremental investment is US$56.0 million
of which US$35.0 million is proposed for GEF funding.
85.     JSC Halogen. located in Perm, is a partially integrated aerosol manufacturer that is
part of a large chemical complex which supplies the ODS propellant for aerosol manufacture.
It is one of Russia's major ODS producers. Halogen's aerosol manufacturing operation has
installed capacity to produce 22.5 million cans per year. In 1994, production was 15.5 million
cans with CFC usage of 1,435 MT. This is approximately 8% of ODS consumption in the
sector. For 1995 consumption is estimated to rise to 1,560 MT based on the first half year of
production. The manufacturing operation involves only product formulation and filling, with
cans and valves being purchased externally.  The enterprise's primary requirements are
conversion of filling facilities to HAP, which involves the purchase of one new filling line,
upgrading of a second, and installation of facilities for handling and storage of flammable
HAP. including a finished goods warehouse, hydrocarbon tank farm, rail cars and storage
facilities, gas detection systems and training. The total incremental investment required is
US$2.8 million, of which US$2.0 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project
cost effectiveness is US$1.40/kg. ODP.
86.      Novosibirsk Domestic Chemical Plant (NDCP), located in Novosibirsk, is a fully
integrated aerosol manufacturer and the county's largest traditional CFC consumer in the
sector. It has an installed capacity of 40 million cans. In 1994, production was 20 million
cans with CFC consumption of 3,700 MT, or 20% of usage in the sector. In order to use
HAP safely, the enterprise must replace it's entire can and valve making facility, plus convert
its filling operation and upgrade its storage facilities.  The existing can manufacturing
operation cannot produce aerosol containers strong enough to withstand the higher pressures
required for HAP. Similarly precision valves are required to minimize leakage and fire
hazards associated with the use of HAP based aerosol products.  The total incremental
investment required is US$10.9 million, of which US$8.5 million is proposed as a GEF sub-
grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$1.40/kg. ODP.



ANNEX 2
Page 42 of 55
87.     JSC Himprom Domestic Chemistry Plant, located at Volgograd, is an integrated
aerosol manufacturer and part of JSC Himprom, one of the country's largest producers of
ODS materials including the propellant used in their aerosol operation. The aerosol operation
has a capacity of 20 million cans/year, but has only produced an average of 6.4 million
cans/year over the past three years. This is the capacity on which this sub-project is based.
Average annual ODS consumption over this period has been 1,769 MT/year, or 10% of usage
in the sector. The sub-project involves conversion of the operation to HAP propellant. This
will require replacement of filling lines, new valve manufacturing facilities, and addition of
hydrocarbon storage and handling facilities in the form of a tank farm, tank cars and a finished
goods warehouse. The total incremental investment required is US$4.3 million, of which
US$2.9 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is
US$1.65/kg. ODP.
88.     JSC "Novomoscovskbytchim", located in Novomoskovsk, is an integrated aerosol
manufacturer and part of a larger industrial chemical complex producing a variety of consumer
and industrial products. It has an installed capacity of 40 million cans/year but has historically
made considerably less than this. The average production over the last three years has been 10
million cans/year with an average annual consumption of 1,219 MT of ODS, or 7% of usage
in the sector. This is the capacity on which the sub-project is based. Conversion to HAP
propellant requires the installation of two new filling lines, development of HAP off loading
and tank farm facilities, installation of purification equipment, building a finished goods
warehouse and other hydrocarbon handling infrastructure. The total incremental investment
required is US$4.9 million, of which US$3.8 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The
sub-project cost effectiveness is US$3.11/kg. ODP. The OORG review has identified US$0.5
in potential cost reductions in equipment to be covered by the GEF sub-grant and this is
currently being evaluated.
89.      Altaichimprom  Production Association, located in Slavgorod, is an integrated
aerosol manufacturer and a division of a chemical complex that also produces ODS materials.
It has an installed capacity of 20 million cans/year but produces considerable less than this.
The average annual production over the last three years is 2.3 million cans with ODS
consumption of 591 MT/year. Due to the poor quality of existing filling equipment, cans and
valves, the complete facility would require replacement to convert to HAP. As a result
conversion to mechanical pumps has been selected. This requires purchase and installation of
blow molding machines, molds and liquid filling lines. The total incremental investment
required is US$2.4 million, of which US$2.1 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The
sub-project cost effectiveness is US$3.61/kg. ODP.
90.      Mosbytchim, located in Moscow, is a partially integrated aerosol manufacturer
specializing in consumer products. It has an installed filling capacity of 20 million cans per
year, but typically produces about half this level. Average annual production over the last
three years has been 10.2 million cans with ODS consumption of 2,211 MT/Year.



ANNEX 2
Page 43 of 55
The conversion of this facility requires investment in hydrocarbon tank farms, HAP
purification equipment, explosion proof filling lines, a finished goods warehouse, support
infrastructure for handling a flammable material, and training.  The total incremental
investment required is US$8.7 million, of which US$2.6 million is proposed as a GEF sub-
grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$1.93/kg. ODP. The OORG review has
identified US$0.6 in potential cost reductions in equipment to be covered by the GEF sub-
grant and this is currently being evaluated.
91.      KRP Biryulsa  located at Krasnoyarsk, is the largest domestic refrigerator
manufacturer in Russia with production capacity of 750,000 refrigeration units and one million
compressors per year. A sub-project involving the conversion to HFC-134a refrigerant has
been appraised and recommended for funding under the Project's first tranche. This second
tranche sub-project completes the plant's phase-out through conversion of its foaming
operation to cyclopentane. This will phase-out 302 MT/year of CFC-11 based on current
production of 650,000 units/year. The sub-project will be undertaken in two phases. The first
phase will have a capacity of one hundred units to confirm techniques and procedures. The
second phase will involve the installation and commissioning of replacement foam forming
lines for doors and cabinets along with appropriate support infrastructure to safely handle
cyclopentane and mitigate its flammability risk. This will include new storage and transfer
piping systems, upgrading of plant fire protection and electrical systems, addition of explosion
proof foam mixing facilities, plant ventilation, and training. The total incremental investment
required is US$15.8 million, of which US$5.5 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The
sub-project cost effectiveness is US$9.00/kg. ODP.
92.      JSC Saratov Electrounit Production Association (SEPO), located in Saratov, is a
domestic refrigerator manufacturer producing 630,000 units per year (1993).  Two sub-
projects are proposed for GEF grant funding. The first sub-project replaces 210 MT per year
of CFC-11 with cyclopentane in its application of foam insulation. It is based on the
modification by a western supplier of older Eastern European equipment and the replacement
of specific components such as mixing equipment, piping, as well as installation of
cyclopentane storage and handling infrastructure. The total sub-project cost including
increased operating costs is US$6.7 million, of which US$2.8 million is incremental capital
investment.   US$2.6 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost
effectiveness is US$10.40/kg. ODP. The second sub-project involves replacement of 228 MT
per year of ODS through the elimination of CFC-12 refrigerant consumption and CFC-113
used in the manufacture of older design compressors. After conversion, custom designed
HFC-134a compressors will be externally purchased. The sub-project will be accomplished in
two Phases. In Phase 1, a trial batch of one hundred refrigerator units will be produced
incorporating new  HFC-134a compressors. Following testing of these refrigerators and
incorporation of any changes in the manufacturing facility, Phase 2 will complete the transition
of the factory to the non-ODS refrigerant HFC-134a. The changes in refrigerator plant
equipment cover new facilities for drying lubricating oil, charging HFC-134 and oil, detection



ANNEX 2
Page 44 of 55
of leaks, and evacuation and testing facilities for refrigerators and freezers. The total sub-
project cost including increased operating costs is US$8.4 million of which US$1.6 million is
incremental capital investment. US$1.5 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-
project cost effectiveness is US$7.65/kg. ODP.  The OORG review  has conditionally
approved this sub-project. subject to further of clarification in relation to: training; field
testing: vacuum pump selection: condition and disposition of existing equipment: and filling
machine sizing. These issues are currently being addressed by the company.
93.      ANPO Marikholodmash, located in Yoskar-Ola, is the largest manufacturer of
commercial refrigeration equipment in Russia. In 1994, it produced 24,700 units, or 48% of
the county's output. Two sub-projects are proposed for GEF funding. The first involves the
conversion of foam insulation blowing operations from CFC-1 1 to cyclopentane with a phase-
out benefit of 15 MT/year, based on 1994 usage. The conversion requires investment in a
new foam blowing line and associated infrastructure to store and handle the flammable
hydrocarbon. The total incremental investment required is US$1.3 million, of which US$0.5
million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$7.12/kg.
ODP. The sub-project has been approved by OORG review conditional on clarification of
safety standards applicable to cyclopentane storage. This is currently being resolved. The
second sub-project involves conversion of equipment charging lines from CFC-12 to HFC-
134a. It is estimated that 18 MT/year of ODS usage will be eliminated, based on 1994
production. Purchased compressors designed for HFC-134a will be used. The sub-project
requires investment in product development and re-design, evacuation and recovery units, leak
detection equipment, and servicing capability. The total incremental investment required is
US$0.5 million, of which US$0.2 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project
cost effectiveness is S$9.00/kg. ODP.
B.   Third Tranche Sub-Project Descriptions
94.      The following provides a summary description of the eight investment sub-projects
proposed for inclusion in the third tranche (Schedule A Table Al). These are anticipated to be
presented to the GEF Council in late 1996, and involve all the remaining major domestic
refrigeration manufacturers. In addition, provision has been made to fund investment and
training in the refrigeration sector in anticipation of a project in this sector being prepared.
With the exception of the yet undefined refrigeration servicing sub-project, all sub-projects
have under gone OORG review. Where conditional approvals have been received, outstanding
issues are currently being evaluated and final approval of the OORG reviewer will be a
condition of proceeding to appraisal. The total incremental investment is US$26.5 million, of
which US$16.4 million is proposed for GEF funding.
95.     JSC NLMK Stinol, located in Lipetsk, is a domestic refrigerator manufacturer,
operating a modern plant of Italian design and having an ultimate production capacity of
1,000,0000 units per year. The 1995 production is anticipated to be 450,000 units. One sub-



ANNEX 2
Page 45 of 55
project has been identified involving the phase-out of 260 MT/year of CFC-11 used for the
foam insulation by replacing it with cyclopentane. The conversion will be completed in three
stages during normal down time over a two year period. It will involve the installation of new
facilities for the storage and processing of flammable cyclopentane, which meet appropriate
standards of fire protection, electrical design, containment, and ventilation, and will provide
for training in the safe handling of cyclopentane.  The total sub-project cost including
increased operating costs is US$11.8 million, of which US$4.2 million is incremental capital
investment. US$3.1 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness
is US$9.93/kg. ODP. The OORG review has conditionally approved this sub-project subject
to clarification of the fate of the existing dosing machine. These issue is currently being
addressed.
96.      Orsk  Mechanical Plant, located  in  Orenburg, is a domestic  refrigerator
manufacturer having a capacity of 500,000 units per year with production at 370,000 units in
1993.  Two sub-projects have been identified. The first sub-project will phase-out 202
MT/year of CFC-11 used for foam insulation by replacing it with cyclopentane. This sub-
project will accomplish a phased transition from CFC-11 to cyclopentane foams on six
foaming lines.  This will be supported by upgraded infrastructure to accommodate the
flanimable properties of cyclopentane, including new storage and transfer piping systems,
upgrading of plant fire protection and electrical systems, addition of explosion proof foam
mixing facilities, plant ventilation, and training. The total sub-project cost including increased
operating costs is US$11.4 million, of which US$8.8 million is incremental capital investment.
US$4.8 million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is
US$12.90/kg. ODP. The second sub-project will convert the existing refrigerant charging
lines for the use of HFC-134a and involve purchase of charging and evacuation equipment, a
reclaim unit and a leak detection system. An estimated 158 MT/year of ODS will be phased
out. This work will be undertaken in parallel with internal investments in the conversion of a
new Japanese supplied compressor line to HFC-134a, providing the enterprise with sufficient
capacity for its own needs, as well as sale to other manufacturers which are anticipated to
discontinue compressor production. The total sub-project cost including increased operating
costs is US$2.8 million, of which US$1.6 million is incremental capital investment. US$1.1
million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$6.90/kg.
ODP. The OORG review has conditionally approved this sub-project. subject to clarification
for the following areas: training: field testing: vacuum pump selection: condition and
disposition of existing equipment: and filling machine sizing. These issues are currently being
evaluated,



ANNEX 2
Page 46 of 55
97.     JSC POLUS. located in Ziatoust, is a domestic refrigerator manufacturer with a
total production capacity of 380,000 units per year and a production rate of 279,000 units per
year in 1993. Two sub-projects have been identified. The first sub-project will eliminate 250
MT of CFC-11 foam blowing agent by substituting HFC-134a. The selection of HFC-134a
as a foam blowing agent, as opposed to the more common cyclopentane, is based on the
plant's location and potential safety considerations. This sub-project has not been approved by
the OORG reviewer, who has questioned the feasibility of using HFC134a as a foam blowing
agent in this application.  This question is currently being evaluated recognizing that its
resolution will be a condition of continued processing of the sub-project for GEF funding.
The second sub-project will phase-out 123 MT of ODS consumption in the enterprise by
replacing CFC-12 refrigerant with HFC-134a. The implementation of the two sub-projects will
be integrated and will be conducted in two phases over a three year period. During Phase 1,
1000 refrigerators will be produced using imported HFC-134a compressors, and tested to
confirm the validity of all components and procedures involved in the phase-out. CFC
conservation and recovery measures will be instituted and 50% reduced foam technology will
be introduced. During Phase 2, the manufacturing plant will be fully converted to use of non-
ODS materials. This will include the addition of new facilities for charging HFC-134a, leaks
detection and product testing, and the replacement of CFC-113 solvents in the manufacturing
process. For the foam sub-project, the total sub-project cost including increased operating
costs is US$3.2 million, of which US$0.8 million is incremental capital investment. US$0.7
million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$2.90/kg.
ODP. For the refrigerant sub-project, the total sub-project cost including increased operating
costs is US$4.1 million, of which US$1.2 million is incremental capital investment. US$0.7
million is proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$6.04/kg.
ODP. The OORG review has conditionally approved this sub-project, subject to provision of
clarification on the following: field testing: vacuum pump selection: leak detection equipment
selection: and condition and disposition of existing equipment. Thes i    currently
being evaluated,
98.      PO Zavod, located in Zelelenodolsk, is a domestic refrigerator manufacturer with
an annual production capacity of 420,000 units and average production rate over the past three
years of 220,000 units per year. Two sub-projects have been included. The first sub-project
will phase-out 191 MT/year of CFC-11 used for the foam insulation by replacing it with
cyclopentane. It will be accomplished through a phased transition from CFC-11 to
cyclopentane foams by modification of to the existing foaming lines and new equipment
additions. Infrastructure will be upgraded to accommodate the flammable properties of
cyclopentane including new storage and transfer piping systems, upgrading of plant fire
protection and electrical systems, addition of explosion proof foam mixing facilities, plant
ventilation, and training. The total sub-project cost including increased operating costs is
US$9.7 million, of which US$6.8 million is incremental capital investment. US$3.6 million is
proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$18.60/kg. ODP. The
second sub-project involves the conversion of 150 MT/year of CFC-12 consumption through



ANNEX 2
Page 47 of 55
conversion to HFC-134a refrigerant. Specific expenditures cover the purchase and installation
of charging, leak detection, drying and recycling equipment. The total sub-project cost is
US$6.2 million, of which US$1.9 million is incremental capital investment. US$1.3 million is
proposed as a GEF sub-grant. The sub-project cost effectiveness is US$7.94/kg. ODP. I'h
OORG review has conditionally approved this sub-project. subject to of clarification on the
following areas: technology transfer arrangements: field testing: vacuum pump selection: and
condition and disposition of existing equipment. These issues are currently being evaluated.
99.      Refrigeration Servicing will be included as an investment sub-project in the third
tranche and a grant of US$0.6 million has been provided for initiating work in this area. A
specific sub-project will be prepared using technical assistance resources provided in the
second tranche and will cover provision of recycling and recovery equipment along with
training for a key pilot project, in the industrial and commercial servicing sector.



ANNEX 2
Page 48 of 55
PART 4 - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
A.   Background
100.      The following describes the technical assistance component of the Russian
Federation GEF ODS Consumption Phase-Out Project (the Project) to be financed by the first
and second tranches. This technical assistance is generally aimed at strengthening Russia's
institutional and regulatory capacity to support the ODS phase-out Country Program adopted
by the Government and on which Russia's fulfillment of its current international obligations
are based.  Other elements of the component provide resources for enhancing local
implementation capacity for undertaking   phase-out investment activities, supplementary
project preparation for ODS consumption as well as production phase-out, and public
information initiatives.
101.      Russia is one of the World's largest remaining producers and consumers of ODS.
Effective January 1, 1996, it will cease to be in compliance with its obligations for phase-out
action in accordance with the Montreal Protocol. At the same time, it is the sole supplier of ODS
to users in other parts of the Former Soviet Union (FSU), where phase-out also lags, and where
significant economic hardship would result if this material was not available in the near term. As
a consequence, substantial international attention is being paid to completing phase-out in Russia
as rapidly as possible, while recognizing a need to coordinate this with progress in dependent
countries of the FSU. Financial support is being provided in the form of bilateral assistance
from several western countries (Denmark and the United States) to prepare ODS phase-out plans,
and from the GEF and World Bank for required investments. At the same time, rising concern
exists respecting the increase in exports of ODS from Russia onto the world market, something
that significantly lessens the credibility of Russia's commitment to phase-out.



ANNEX 2
Page 49 of 55
102.      Russia has established the basic institutional structure to support the implementation
of the proposed ODS phase-out program as defined in the Country Program. An Inter-Agency
Commission has been created to coordinate ODS policy among all relevant government agencies
utilizing specific subcommissions dealing with legal, technical, economic/institutional, and
monitoring aspects.  Responsibility for ODS phase-out activities has been assigned to the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Protection (MEPNR). Project implementation
capacity  has also been established within the Ministry's Centre For Preparation and
Implementation of International Projects on Technical Assistance (CPPI) in the form of dedicated
ODS Phase-Out Implementation Units (ODS PIUs) covering the investment and institutional
activities of the project, respectively.
103.      While a positive start on implementation of the Country Program has been made
thought establishment of this institutional framework, the practical ability to give substance to
many of the policy initiatives remains lacking. In particular, an urgent need exists to develop
and implement an effective system of controlling the production, consumption and trade of ODS
materials. Furthermore, this must be accompanied by an ability to monitor and report these
activities, both for internal purposes and to fulfil Russia's international obligations. This latter
aspect, particularly in relation to export of ODS, is viewed as critical to the country's
international credibility and continuance of assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources.
B.    Component Objective
104.      The overall objective of this component is to provide the practical tools required by
MEPNR and other federal agencies to rapidly and effectively implement the basic institutional
elements of the Country Program.   Its specific objectives are: i) identification and
implementation of regulatory and fiscal measures to control ODS consumption, production and
trade; ii) development and operation of a monitoring and reporting system applicable to ODS
production and consumption; iii) identification and action on any gaps in the phase-out
implementation plan related to critical investments or sectoral initiatives; iv) strengthening of
implementation capacity within MEPNR for undertaking current and future phase-out initiatives;
v) creation of increased level of awareness respecting ODS issues among the general public and
specific stakeholder groups; and vi) provide mechanisms to ensure that phase-out activities in
Russia are co-ordinated with those of dependant countries to minimize social and economic
impacts.
C.    Component Descriptions
105.      This component consists of six sub-components as follows and which are described
in more detail below: a) regulatory framework for ODS phase-out; b) monitoring and reporting
of ODS phase-out; c) supplementary project identification and preparation; d) implementation
capacity strengthening; e) public awareness and information; and (f evaluataion of technology
options for ODS production phase-out. The technical assistance will be supplied primarily for



ANNEX 2
Page 50 of 55
consulting assistance required for each sub-component, but will also include direct assistance to
agencies assigned responsibility for various aspects of country program implementation.
106.      Regulatory Framework for ODS Phase-Out:  This sub-component covers the
development of specific regulatory initiatives in the form of policies, legislation and regulations
aimed at controlling ODS production, consumption, movement, and trade. The scope of these
initiatives may include traditional "command and control" measures such as licensing, and
selective bans or quotas. They may also extend to economic instruments such as substance or
application specific taxes on production and use, and incentives for adoption of ODS substitutes.
Specific emphasis initially should be placed on trade aspects such that Russia's obligations
respecting export to developed countries are strictly enforced. This would include elimination of
exports to developed countries, independent and creditable control being exercised over the
certification of recycled material, and conditioning of export arrangements with dependant
countries, such that re-export is prohibited The experience of other nations with established
regulatory systems in this area will be utilized where applicable. Once options for regulatory
control are identified and evaluated in the Russian context, those selected will be developed into
legislation, regulations and decrees to be implemented at the federal level. An overall plan for
their implementation through communication to affected parties and subsequent enforcement will
also be prepared. This will include the assignment of specific responsibilities for implementation
and provision of enforcement training as required.
107.      Monitoring and Reporting of ODS Phase-Out: A system of regular collection of
ODS production, consumption, recycling and trade information will be developed and
implemented within MEPNR, in parallel with the development of the regulatory framework.
Utilizing the Country Program and project preparation work as a starting point, sources of
production, distribution intermediaries, consumers, recyclers and exporters will be identified.
Close co-ordination with the implementation of a licensing system and associated mandatory
reporting requirements will assist in this. Similarly, the implementation status of enterprise
specific phase-out investments can be monitored through a system of regular direct contact and
accessing progress reports where grant assistance is being provided. The capability to aggregate
and document this data will be developed in various forms for use by enforcement agencies,
policy makers and for fulfillment of international reporting obligations. The scope of this sub-
component will also include the establishment of permanent responsibility for monitoring and
reporting within MEPNR or other agency, firm or institute that may be selected.
108.      Supplementary Project Identification and Preparation:  This sub-component is
intended to assist in filling gaps that exist in the present consumption phase-out plan undertaken
under this Project. The most urgent need is to carryout financial evaluations of enterprises
included in the second tranche. While the Project addresses the highest consumption domestic
refrigeration and aerosol sectors, preparation work will also be required related to the
refrigeration servicing, solvent, fire protection and foam  sectors.  In addition, supporting
preparation work related to ODS substitute supply may also be required. The modest resources



ANNEX 2
Page 51 of 55
supplied under this sub-component are not intended to undertake major technical studies or
preparation work, but rather to define the need for and scope of such work, and complete
specific tasks necessary to ensure investment sub-projects are ready for more detailed
preparation. In addition, it will provide resources for identification and facilitation of bilateral
funding sources for such work, and for possible bilateral co-financing of phase-out investment
projects.
109.       Project Implementation Capacity Strengthening:  This sub-component provides
resources for the training of the ODS Investment Project Unit in financial and technical appraisal
methodologies. In addition, it will include the development of an appraisal manual to assist this
unit in sub-project appraisal.
110.       Public Awareness and Information: This sub-component will provide resources to
initiate a program to communicate the importance of ODS Phase-Out to stakeholders and the
general public. The modest resources allocated to this element in the first tranche will be devoted
largely to identification of effective initiatives and developing a plan for their implementation.
Of particular interest is the investigation of an Ozone Free Technology Certification System,
such as has proved successful in other countries.
ll1.       Technology Options for ODS Production Phase-Out. There are currently six major
ODS producers in Russia. With assistance from the GEF and the Bank a phase-out program has
been agreed with these enterprises and funds are being sort from bilateral donors to finance
compensation packages to accelerate the program. In parallel the enterprises are developing
business plans to manufacture non-ODS substitutes, namely HFC-134a, 152a and the transition
HCFC-140 series. Some enterprises are considering producing HCFC replacements such as
HFC-32 and 125. These substitute materials have been developed by firms in the West during
the past 8 years, but GIPH, the Russia Institute responsible for developing the CFC technologies,
has limited experience in developing technologies to produce the substitute materials. Its is,
however, proposing new unproven technologies to the Russian enterprises to produce these
materials. Since these new technologies may or may not be able to compete with the Western
competitors, the Russian enterprises need expert independent evaluations of their technical, as
well as financial viability before committing to install such technologies. Thus, it is proposed to
hire an expert foreign consultant firm to evaluate the proposed GIPH technologies for non-ODS
subsitute material, which the Russian enterprises are planning to manufacture (estimated cost
US$250,000). In addition and in parallel with this study, the Russian production enterprises
have requested expert foreign assistance in comparing proposals from Western manufacturers to
utilize their technologies, or to enter into joint venture manufacturing arrangements to produce
non-ODS substitutes. A second contract for $302,000 will be negotiated with a foreign firm to
assist the enterprises to make these evalutiaons and to compare them with the GIPH proposals.



ANNEX 2
Page 52 of 55
D.   Sub-Project Costs and Inplementation
112.     The funding for the technical assistance component of the first tranche is
US$748,000 and for the second tranche is US$552,000. It will be used to fund consulting
assistance as indicated in Table A2.12. Table B3 (Schedule B) provides a procurement plan for
the major consulting packages anticipated to be contracted for the TA component.
113.     Planning for the regulatory and monitoring sub-component has begun within
MEPNR and the CPPI. During the first half of 1996, terms of reference and invitation
packages  will be prepared for the major consulting assigrments, and consultants will be
selected. These will be initiated upon grant effectiveness. The regulatory development is
expected to be completed by July 1997, by which time the basic regulatory systems should be
in place on a legally enforceable basis. The monitoring and information system is expected to
be operational by early 1997. Similarly, supplementary project identification work will begin
upon grant effectiveness and continue over a twelve month period. The implementation
capacity strengthening sub-component will be largely tied to the second tranche appraisal
schedule in the third and forth quarters of 1996. Completion of the appraisal manual will be
targeted for this period so that it can be tested during second tranche appraisal. Public
Information activities will be undertaken in parallel with the regulatory initiatives.  An
implementation schedule based on grant effectiveness in September 1996 is provided in Table
A2.13.
114.     The technical assistance component will be supervised by the ODS PIUs within the
CPPI with the CPPI also providing administrative, disbursement and procurement support,
along with overall management direction. The regulatory and monitoring sub-components will
be implemented under the direction of MEPNR The supplementary project preparation,
implementation capacity and public information sub-components will be managed by the ODS
PIUs directly in consultation with MEPNR and other agencies as required.
115.     Table A2. 14 has been prepared to provide a summary of the expected outputs from
the various technical assistance sub-components of the Project. Some adjustments may be
required during the course of the project. An important emphasis will be on improving the
regulatory and monitoring systems for ODS phase-out as required by the international
conventions. Additional work on identifying sub-projects for ODS consumption phase-out, as
well as production of non-ODS substitutes is also of high priority for the TA component.



ANNEX 2
Page 53 of 55
' TABLE A2.12
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUB-COMPONENT                            COST
a) Regulatory Framework Development
i.    Review of International Regulatory Practice for ODS
phase-out                                                 80,000
ii.    Regulatory Option Selection and Documentation            80,000
iii.   Implementation Training                                  20,000
iv.   Implementing Agency Computing/Communications
Equipment                                                 20,000
Sub-Total
b) Monitoring and Reporting System
i.    Monitoring System and Information Source Identification
for ODS                                                  100,000
ii.    System Implementation                                    50,000
iii.   Implementation Training                                  20,000
iv.   Implementing Agency Computing/Communications
Equipment                                                 20.000
Sub-Total                                       -- -      1
c)  Supplementary Project Identification and Preparation
i.    Enterprise Financial Evaluations for tranche 2 sub-       125,000
projects                                                  85,000
ii.    Project Identification/Scoping Studies                   20,000
iii.   Bilateral Funding Development
Sub-Total                                                230
d) Implementation Capacity Strengthening
i.    Training in financial and technical appraisal for tranche 2
sub-projects                                              30,000
ii.    Appraisal Technical Support                              20,000
Sub-Total                    .                      .    SOJ
e) Public Awareness and Information
i.    Initial Identification Study                              30,000
ii.    Phase-Out Workshop                                       48.000
Sub-Total             .8.mxk
TOTAL - TRANCE 1 TA FU ING                                      .      4B0
f)Technology for ODS Substitute Production
i.    Evaluation of GIPH technologies for non-ODS substitutes  250,000
ii.    Assist enterprises to evaluate Russian and foreign
technology                                               302,000
TOTAL - TRANCHE 2 TA FUNDING                                           552.000



ANNEX 2
Page 54 of 55
TABLE A2.13
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITY                        From            To
a) Regulatory Framework Development
i. Review of International Regulatory Practice  Sept-96      Nov-97
ii. Regulatory Option Selection and           Sept-96        July-97
documentation                              Jan-97        April-97
iii. Implementation Training                  April-97
iv. Implementing Agency Operation.
b) Monitoring and Reporting System
i. Monitoring System/Information Source ID.   Sept-96        Dec-96
ii. System Implementation                     Dec-96         Mar-97
iii. Implementation Training                  Jan-96         Feb-96
iv. Implementing Agency Operation             Feb-96
c) Supplementary Project Identification/ Prep.
i. Enterprise Financial Evaluations for tranche 2
sub-projects                               Sept-96        Oct- 96
ii. Project Identification/Scoping Studies    Sept-96        Oct- 97
iii. Bilateral Funding Development            Sept-96        Oct- 97
d) Implementation Capacity Strengthening
i. Training on technical and financial appraisal  Sept-96    Oct-96
ii. Appraisal Manual                          Sept-96        Oct-96
e) Public Awareness and Information
i. Initiative Identification Study            Sept-96        Jan-97
ii. Phase-Out Workshop                        Sept-96        July-97
f) Technology Options for ODS Substitute Production
i. Evaluation of GIPH technologies            Sept-96        Dec-96
ii. Evlauation of completing technology options  Sept-96     Feb-97



ANNEX 2
Page 55 of 55
TABLE A2-14
PROPOSED LIST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE OUTPUTS
a) Regulatory Framework Development
i. Regulations for licensing system for ODS production, recycle, export and import
ii. Regulations for quota system for ODS production, export and import
iii. Regulations for an ODS recycling certification system
b) Monitoring and Reporting System
i. Regulations and reporting protocol for producers, consumers, traders, recyclers, and
distributors of ODS materials
ii. Recruit and train extra staff in ODS Task Force in MEPNR to collect and report data,
and enforce new regulations identified in (a) & (b)
c) Supplementary Project Identification and Preparation
i. Financial evaluation of 9 enterprises included in tranche 2
ii. Reports on identification of potential future sub-projects for ODS phase-out in the
solvents, fire protection and refrigerant recycle sectors
iii. Report on identification of bilateral resources for preparation and funding of sub-projects
in (c) (ii) above
d) Implementation Capacity Strengthening
i. Special training courses for ODS PIU staff in sub-project technical and financial
appraisal
ii. ODS sub-project appraisal manual
e) Public Awareness and Information
i. Press releases describing aspects of the ODS Phase-Out Program
ii. Interviews with media
iii. Workshops with industry and government stakeholders to explain and get feedback on
ODS regulatory proposals
f) Technology Options for ODS Substitute Production
i. Report on GIPH technologies for ODS substitute production and recommendations for
commercializing these technologies
ii. Report for each of the six major ODS producers on their proposed technology options
for ODS substitute production, evaluating costs and benefits of different options



A



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 20
POSITION PAPER OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ACHIEVABLE ODS PHASE-OUT SCHEDULE IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
August 1994
I.    INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.     The Government of the Russian Federation, represented by the Ministry for Protection
of the Environment and Natural Resources, recognizing our obligations under the Montreal
Protocol and its Amendments, hereby presents our position on the technically and managerially
feasible phase-out schedule for ozone depleting substances (ODS) in The Russian Federation.
2.      Following the Accession to the Vienna Convention on June 18, 1986, the former Soviet
Union ratified the Montreal Protocol on November 10, 1988. The Russian Federation continues
the membership of the former Soviet Union, and on January 13, 1992, The Russian Federation
ratified the London Amendments, thereby confirming its strong commitment to take the
necessary measures to protect the stratospheric ozone layer.
3.      During 1993 a draft National Programme for the phase-out of ODS in the Russian
Federation was finalized defining priority phase-out projects in both ODS producing and ODS
consuming sectors. Nevertheless, actual progress towards ODS substitution has been constrained
by the difficult economic situation in the Russian Federation during the period of economic
transition and in particular succeeding the break up of the former Soviet Union.
4.      The overall consumption of ODS in The Russian Federation was reduced by more than
40 percent from 1990 to 1992, but this was mainly the result of the economic decline. Neither in
the state budget nor in the enterprises have funds been available to go forward with ODS
substitution projects after the deepening of the economic crisis.
5.      Given the transitional nature of the economy in the Russian Federation since the start of
1991, the implementation of industry level ODS substitution will only be possible with
substantial external financial assistance. Until now Russia has received external financial
assistance through bilateral sources and from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) for ODS
Country Programme Preparation (Denmark) and for ODS Project Preparation (GEF and USA).



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 20
H.  ODS CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
ODS Consumption
6.      Since 1990, the Russian consumption of ODS has dropped by more than 40%. In 1992,
total regulated ODS consumption in the Russian Federation was estimated at 48,000 MT. The
ODP weighted ODS consumption was about 44,000 ODP tonnes. Total regulated CFC
consumption was estimated at 36,000 MT in 1992, of which CFC-12 and CFC-1 1 accounted for
66% and 25%, respectively. The consumption of Halons was about 900 MT. Carbon
tetrachloride and HCFC consumption constituted 2,700 MT and 9,000 MT, respectively. The
development in the consumption of the individual substances is illustrated in Chart 1 below.
7.      ODS consuming industries are supplied exclusively by domestic ODS production.
Imports are nil. The calculated (ODP weighted) per capita consumption of CFC and halon in
1992 was 0.3 kg.
HCFC
CFCa                                         HCFC
J                       C    F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
l               l    1  ~~~~~~~1990    1992
1990 84.000 MT       Halon  _4.250  35      1992 48.000 MT
HCC 10.W0  9.000
8.      Measured in absolute terms, ODS phase-out efforts have to date been most successful
in the aerosol sector where ODS consumption has declined to 18,200 MT from the 1990 peak
level of 36,500 MT. Measured in relative terms, ODS phase-out has also been considerable
among manufacturers of fire fighting equipment (65%) and in the solvents sector (25%). It must,
however, also be stressed that the dramatic decline in ODS consumption from 1990 to 1992 is
mainly caused by the severe economic recession. The largest ODS consuming sector is still
aerosol production which accounts for 18,200 MT or 46% of 1992 ODS consumption. The
second largest single user sector is the refrigeration sector, which consumed 10,700 MT in
refrigerants and 1,400 MT as insulation foaming agents. The 1992 ODS consumption pattern is
illustrated in Chart 2.                                                      A



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 20
1992 ODS  (Exd. HCFC) Consumption by Use|
Refrigerabon
10.700 MT, (27%)
Aerosol
18.200 MT, (46%)
Solverns
5400 MT, (14%)
Foam  Fire Extinguistrents
4.300 MT, (11%)  900 MT. (2%)
ODS Production
9.      The production of ODS in the Russian Federation peaked in 1990 at about 200,000
MT. Production has since declined, and 1992 ODS production was about 145,000 MT, equal to
approximately 75% of 1990 production level. The production of CFC has declined from 111,000
MT in 1990 to 62,000 MT in 1992. Of the present CFC production, about 40% is exported,
mainly to the former Soviet Republics. Halon production has dropped from 4,000 MT in 1990 to
900 MT in 1992. The MCF production of 4,000 MT in 1992 is solely for export non-CIS
countries. CTC production, which primarily serves as a feedstock in CFC production (non-
regulated), peaked at 61,000 tonnes in 1990, of this amount less 5% is used in regulated
consumption.
III. GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES SUPPORTING ODS PHASE-OUT
Involved Agencies
10.     The Ministry for Protection of the Enviromnent and Natural Resources (MOOSiPR) is
the lead agency on issues related to the Montreal Protocol. Within the MOOSiPR, Montreal
Protocol related issues falls within the area of responsibility of the Department of Ecological
Programmes and Industrial Ecology. The focal point in the institutional framework for ODS
phase-out are the ODS Task Force in MOOSiPR, created in 1993, the Inter-Agency Commission
for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, created in 1992, and it's Subcommissions, created in
1993.
The Inter-Agency Commission
11.     In 1992, the Inter-Agency Commission for the Protection of the Ozone Layer was
created by a Government Order. It is responsible for inter-agency coordination of ODS policy
and international liaison related to the Montreal Protocol. It includes representatives from all
relevant government agencies, industries and institutions involved in ODS phase-out. In 1993,
the Inter-Agency Commission for the Protection of the Ozone Layer was strengthened by the
creation of four subcommissions, each with its own mandate. The Inter-Agency Commission for
the Protection of the Ozone Layer has the mandate to decide urgent problems and conflicts, to
disseminate information on ODS phase-out, and to receive immediate response on economic and
administrative measures just prepared.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 20
Subcommission on Legal Aspects
12.     The Subcommission on Legal Aspects' main function is to elaborate guidelines for and
to comment on draft legislation supporting the ODS phase-out.
Subcommission on Technical Aspects
13.     The Subcommission on Technical Aspects' main function is to keep record of and to
ensure information dissemination to industries on new ODS free technologies developed in
Russia and abroad.
Subcommission on Economic and Institutional Aspects
14.     The Subcommission on Economic and Institutional Aspects' main function is to
develop proposals for a regulatory framework, comprising economic and administrative
instruments, in support of the ODS phase-out. Furthermore, it is mandated to put forward
proposals on institutional strengthening.
Subcommission on Monitoring of the Ozone Layer
15.     The Subcommission on Monitoring of the Ozone Layer's main function is to keep
record with and to ensure information dissemination on the state of the ozone layer over Russia.
ODS Task Force
16.     In 1993, the ODS Task Force was created by a Decree from the Minister of
Environment. The Task Force has over-all responsibility for designing, monitoring and
implementing the national ODS phase-out strategy subject to guidelines from the Government,
including the issue of production/import licenses, the introduction of sector specific bans and the
administration and allocation of economic support for ODS replacement projects at industry level
from Russian and international sources. Furthermore, the Task Force acts as a secretariat for the
Inter-Agency Commission for the Protection of the Zone Layer.
17.     When fully operational, the ODS Task Force will be an Operational Unit, composed
of 4 civil servants from MOOSiPR (currently 2 staff members are assigned). Depending on the
load of work, the ODS Task Force may be enlarged by a Technical Advisory Group, composed
of ODS technical experts from outside MOOSiPR, supporting the Operational Unit. MOOSiPR
will appoint the Task Force staff who will work on a full-time basis for a certain period of time.
18.     The ODS Task Force will be the nucleus of the management structure, serving under
direct responsibility of the Vice Minister of the Environment responsible for developing and
implementing industry environmental programmes. It's major attention will be devoted to ODS
replacement at industry level, information dissemination and open dialogue between government
agencies, industries and others involved in ODS phase-out. Additionally, the monitoring of ODS
production and consumption during the phase-out period will be among the priority assignments.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 20
The Task Force is currently preparing an awareness campaign on ODS phase-out with
industrialists, regional environmnental committees and NGOs as target groups.
The National Programme and the Study on ODS Phase-out
19.      In June 1992, the Government of the Russian Federation issued an order
(Goverrnmental Order No. 378: 'Measures to ensure Compliance by the Russian Federation with
the Vienna Convention and the Montreal Protocol') mandating the development of a National
Programme for ODS phase-out in Russia.
20.      The draft National Programme was finalized during 1993 and subsequently formned an
imnportant input to the development of the study 'Phase-out of Ozone Depleting Substances in
Russia' which was finalized during August 1994 and now shared with i.a. the Montreal Protocol
Secretariat. The National Programme and the Study on ODS Phase-out has identified a number
of industry level ODS phase-out projects in both ODS producing and ODS consuming sectors.
Legislation supporting ODS Phase-out
21.      A new Government Order on ODS phase-out is being prepared in the Russian
Ministry for Protection of the Environment and Natural Resources. The Government Order will
contain sector specific bans on the use of ODS based on the assessment and recommendations of
the study on Phase-out of Ozone Depleting Substances in the Russian Federation. Furthermore
the Order will establish a production and imnport/export licensing system for ozone depleting
substances. Finally, the Government Order will issue trade restrictions in accordance with the
Montreal protocol for trade with non-Parties.
IV.   PRESENT INDUSTRY SITUATION
ODS Production
22.      ODS production takes place at seven production facilities, mainly in Central Russia.
The three largest ODS producers (Ural P0 "Galogen", Volgograd P0 "Chimnprom", Slavgorod
P0 Altajchimnprom ") accounted for almost 85 % of ODS production in 1992.
23.      The scheduled phase-down of ODS production in accordance with the requirements of
the Montreal Protocol is to be followed by a simultaneous phase-in of chemical substitutes, such
as HCFC-22, HFC-134a, HCFC-122, HCFC-124, HFC-125, HCFC-141b, HCFC-142b, HFC-
152a, HFC-32 and HFC-23.
24.      The key constraint for a successful conversion of production facilities is the lack of
finace. The new technologies are well-known and documented, and the ODS chemical
producers are fully aware of the necessity to implement the new technologies.
25.      Whole communities will be hurt seriously if a successful conversion of producer
enterprises is not accomplished. The reason is three-fold: First, ODS production will have to be



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 20
phased out. Second, many ODS producers employ a high share of the workforce in the region in
which they are situated. Third, many producers of ODS are highly dependent on ODS
production, constituting the dominant business activity of the enterprise.
ODS User Sectors
26.      The Russian refrigeration, rigid foam and aerosol sectors are characterized by a
relatively small number of large enterprises. Thus, there are today 22 manufacturers of
refrigerators and refrigeration equipment, and 8 companies engaged in the production of
aerosols. Conversely, the fire fighting and especially the solvents sector are characterized by a
large number of enterprises each with a relatively small consumption of ODS.
27.      The priority ODS phase-out projects in the ODS consuming sectors in The Russian
Federation are within the refrigeration sector because of the long implementation time, and the
potential large socio-economic costs of premature scrapping of existing refrigeration equipment
and of destruction of essential food supplies if servicing of refrigeration equipment cannot be
made, and within the aerosol sector because of the large amount of CFC which is used in this
sector in Russia and the low substitution costs in this sector. Although the phase-out costs are
relatively high in the refrigeration sector, the social costs, whether public or economy wide
costs, of not working fast in this sector could be even higher if enterprises are forced to close
down.
28.      Russian enterprises have demonstrated a keen interest in implementing the shift to non
ODS technologies. This is motivated by both ecological and economic factors. In the domestic
refrigeration industry, some of the traditional export markets are increasingly requiring non-
ODS products. In the aerosol industry the largest enterprise is converted to hydrocarbon
propellant already, thus leaving the remaining facilities at a less competitive position.
Furthermore, the domestic scientific and technical knowledge base is substantial and ready to
support project implementation.
Factors Limiting Rapid Industry Conversion
29.      ODS phase-out project preparation is currently ongoing in all ODS user and producer
sectors financed by the GEF and bilateral support. Given that our enterprises are very motivated
and the quality of our technical and scientific personnel is high, is should be possible with the
external assistance to prepare and document most ODS phase-out projects over the next six
months.
30.      The main barrier to a rapid conversion of the ODS consuming and producing
industries in The Russian Federation is the lack of domestic funding. The difficult economic
situation in The Russian Federation does not leave much funding for the many pressing
investment needs neither in the state budget, nor in the enterprises. Furthermore, the lack of a
fully fledged capital market in the Russian Federation and the inaccessibility of the international



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 20
capital markets for Russian enterprises precludes enterprises from financing even projects which
would be economically self-sustainable is most other countries.
31.      Hence for the implementation of ODS phase-out projects in The Russian Federation to
be economically feasible within the foreseeable future, it is of utmost importance for the country
to receive international financial assistance in this area. Only with external financial support will
further ODS phase-out project implementation occur.
V.  TECHNICAL AND MANAGERIAL FEASIBLE PHASE-OUT SCHEDULE
32.      In the following, the technical and managerial feasible phase-out schedule is assessed
for each of the ODS user sectors on the basis of the ongoing project preparation, sponsored by
the GEF and bilateral sources, and taking into account the international experience concerning
the time required to implement ODS phase-out projects.
Refrigeration Sector
33.      Total phase-out for the domestic and commercial refrigeration manufacturing sectors
could be attained by January 1, 1998, taking into consideration the necessity to change all
production lines. However, due to the substantial progress made by the largest producers,
especially within the domestic refrigeration sector, a substantial replacement of ODS consump-
tion within these two sectors is envisaged to take place in mid-1996. Likewise, total phase-out
for industrial refrigeration sectors could be attained by January 1, 1998.
34.      Even if international funding is made available for project implementation by early
1995 and project implementation runs smoothly, it will still be technically infeasible to phase-out
ODS use in the refrigeration manufacturing sector before 1997 as the required design work,
testing and pilot production takes up to two years.
35.      Within the refrigeration servicing sector the key problem is to develop and implement
a well functioning scheme for recovery of refrigerants, and (depending on the feasibility of a
drop-in replacement in the commercial refrigeration sector) recycling and reclaiming of
refrigerants. Obviously, the refrigeration servicing sector will need a supply of CFC (new or
recycled) for a longer period to avoid premature scrapping of the outstanding stock of refriger-
ation equipment. It is envisaged that a scheme for recovery will be in full operation by January
1, 2000. Till then, the refrigeration servicing sector will need a supply of new CFC. In the
subsequent 10 years, the refrigeration servicing sector will need a supply of recycled CFC. This
will mainly be for servicing of domestic refrigeration equipment as the outstanding stock of
commercial refrigeration equipment is expected to be retrofitted with HFC-134a in the period
1995-2000.
Aerosol Sector
36.      The feasible ODS phase-out date for the aerosol sector is difficult to estimate, but it
seems likely that a total phase-out can be attained by January 1, 1997 with the pharmaceutical



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 20
sector constituting a minor exception. The key problem within this sector is to ensure an
adequate supply of sufficiently pure Hydrocarbon Aerosol Propellants (HAP) and of HAP safety
standard cans and valves. The technical factors involved are complicated and will require time to
resolve adequately and economically. Thus, a complete phase-out of ODS in aerosol
manufacturing can not be attained by January 1, 1996 without a simple close down of a
substantial part of the current filling capacity. However, a substantial phase-out of ODS may be
attained by January 1, 1996, provided funding aimed at both the conversion to alternative
propellants and the production of HAP is made available to the enterprises by early 1995.
Foam Sector
37.      The use of ODS in rigid foam production is primarily within the refrigeration
insulation sector. Here, the alternative non-ODS technology is likely to be primarily
cyclopenthane based foam blowing. Where design considerations allow it, C02/water is a
cheaper alternative, but this is expected mainly to be feasible within commercial refrigeration
insulation. The flexible foam sector is characterized by the availability of proved and cost
effective alternatives and a quick phase-out should be possible here. Flexible foam application of
CFC can be phased out by 1996 whereas rigid foam could be converted during 1995-1997 and a
total phase-out should be obtainable by 1998.
Solvent Sector
38.     In the solvents sector it is estimated that a total ODS phase-out within electronics
could be attained by January 1, 1999 and within metal degreasing and others by January 1, 1997.
The reason for the delay of total phase-out within electronics is foremost the present inadequacy
of practical indigenous experience with alternative non-ODS technologies. It necessitates further
development work of technology adaptation and demonstration at enterprises. The reason for the
expedite of total phase-out within metal degreasing and others is that the technical constraints
here are more simple to overcome.
39.      ODS consumption within fire extinguishing has been reduced remarkably so far,
though mainly due to equipment production decline. Conversion of the production of portable
fire extinguishers to ODS free extinguishants such as C02, dry chemicals or water typically takes
about 2 years. The production of alternative fire fighting agents, such as blends of various inert
gasses, for stationary equipment will also have to be planned. In parallel with this retrofit
technologies should be developed, tested and implemented and a scheme for recovery and
eventual recycling of halons should be implemented to secure a supply of halons in existing
equipment that has not been retrofitted. It is estimated that a total phase-out within this sector
could be attained by January 1, 1997.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 20
ODS Production
40.      The likely adverse effect on the major users of CFC in The Russian Federation from
quick closure of production facilities is significant. If ODS supplies are cut off before a user
industry has had time to test and implement an alternative technology, this industry is forced to
stop production of ODS based products until the alternative technology can be imnplemented. This
may cause severe unemployment problems, losses in market shares, shortages on the market for
end user products, etc.
41.      Recapitulating, ODS phase-out by January 1, 1996 will only be possible in some
consumer sectors (flexible foam and possibly metal degreasing and fire extinguishing). For the
major ODS consumer sectors (refrigeration and aerosol) the technically feasible phase-out dates
are 1-4 years beyond January 1996.
42.      Consequently, there is a need for CFC for an intermediate period after January 1996
and the phase-out of CFC production should take this into account. Hence, coordination between
the ODS consumer sector phase-out projects, the alternative substance phase-in projects and ODS
production capacity shut-down is crucial to the successful completion of the ODS phase-out
effort in The Russian Federation. In particular, it is of utmost importance that projects for
commercial size production of the needed alternative substances, such as HFC-134a, are
promoted in parallel with and in congruency with the consumer sector phase-out projects.
43.      Table 1 below provides an overview of the achievable ODS phase-out strategy
pursued by the Government of the Russian Federation. This strategy is based on the assumptions
that fastest technically feasible phase-out is followed and that international/GEF funding for
project implementation is made available to the enterprises in early 1995, at latest.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 20
Table 1: Achievable ODS Phase-Out Strategy in the Russian Federation
ODP Tonnes in 1992   Date of 100%    Years of Delay
Phase-out')
TOTAL                             43,800          January,200:
Refrigeration Sector               10,700:::     January , 988          2 
- Domestic Refrigeration            800         January 1, 1.998 
- Commercial Refrigeration          800         January 1, 1998j)      2
- Industrial Refrigeration          800          January 1, 1998       2
-  Refrigeration Servicing Sector  8,300         January 1, 2000       4
- Domestic Refrigeration            700         January 1, 2000        4
- Commercial & Industrial          7,600        January 1, 2000        4
Refrigeration
Aerosol Sec tor                    18,200        Januay 1, 1999       3
- Cosmetics and Technical         17,900        January 1, 1997"'       1
- Pharmaceutical                    300          January 1, 1999       3
Foam Sector             :          4,300         January 1, 199&        2
.  .. : . . .4 3                    , 1998 :      : .::.2:. :.
- Rigid Foam                       1,400         January 1, 1998       2
- Flexible and Integral Foam       2,900         January 1, 1996       0
Solvents: Sector A                 5,100         January 1, 1999        3
- Electronics                       500          January 1, 1999       3
- Metal degreasing and Others      4,600         January 1, 1997        1
Fire Extnguihants550                              aur 1, 14997          3.
Notes:
1) The ODS phase-out strategy is based on the assumptions that fastest technically feasible
phase-out is followed and that international/GEF funding of projects is available to the
enterprises early 1995.
2) Including building air conditioning.
3) A substantial drop in ODS consumption is envisaged to take place mid-1996.
4) Could possibly be reduced by one year. Note that recycled CFC will be used for servicing
up to 2010.
5) A substantial drop in ODS consumption may be attained by January 1, 1996.



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 20
44.       Based on the realization of the Government's phase-out programme, it is still possible
for Russia to phase out its use of ODS faster than demanded by the London Adjustments. Thus,
assuming the availability of external financing and that project implementation starts in early
1995, a complete phase-out of CFC in aerosols can be achieved during 1996 (maybe with a few
exceptions in the pharmaceutical sector) thereby reducing Russia's CFC consumption to less than
25%  of the 1990 adjusted base level. The London Adjustments demand a 50%  reduction by
1996. Reduction to 15% of the 1990 adjusted base level is possible by 1997 and a 100% phase-
out can be achieved by January 2000.
45.       In Chart 3 below, the achievable phase-out schedule in the Russian Federation is
shown together with the Montreal Protocol phase-out requirements (London and Copenhagen
Adjustments respectively).
___    _        Feasible CFC Phaseout Schedule
ODP tonnes 
90.000
80.000 ~.r-    .
70.000
60.000    k            iIL- X
50.000
10.000      -               .nA4,, '
1988   1987   1981  198    1990   1891   1992    1993   1994   1995   1995   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002



Chairman of the Government of the Russian Federation
Moscow
To: Parties of the Vienna Convention on
Ozone Layer Protection and Montreal
Protocol on Ozone Depleting Substances
The Government of the Russian Federation confirms its commitment to ozone
protection and essential compliance with the Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer Protection
and Montreal Protocol on Ozone Depleting Substances, and would like to inform the Parties
of the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol on the following.
The Russian Federation has completed the preparation of the Program for the
Phase-out of the Production and Consumption of Ozone Depleting Substances developed with
the consideration of the results of joint studies performed by international and Russian
experts with the assistance of the Danish Agency for Environmental Protection.
The Goverrnent of the Russian Federation adopted the special Resolution on
the immediate measures to implement the Russian Federation commitments for ozone layer
protection. The Resolution includes specific actions to limit utilization of ozone depleting
substances. Besides, the Resolution establishes a licensing system regulating export and
import of ozone depleting substances, and imposes trade restrictions in compliance with the
provisions of the Montreal Protocol concerning the trade relations with non-Party countries.
Estimation was made according to which the introduction of the restrictions will result in the
drop of consumption by over 85% in 1997 in comparison with 1990.
Despite the fact that in 1993 production of ozone depleting substances in the Russian
Federation has already been as 40% of 1990 production, at present the Russian Federation
is not in a position to provide complete phase-out of the production and consumption of
ozone depleting substances by January 1, 1996, as is required by the Montreal Protocol. The
implementation of the most urgent projects on the substitution of ozone depleting substances
at Russian enterprises is still at its initial stage.
The Russian Government addresses the Parties of the Vienna Convention and
Montreal Protocol with a request that the period of complete phase-out of the production and
consumption of CFCs, carbon tetrachloride, and methylchloroform be extended by 4 years
and the period of halon production and consumption phase-out - by 3 years.
We would also welcome international financial assistance in the process of
transformation of Russian industrial sector to ozone-friendly technologies.
V.S. CHERNOMYRDIN
United Nations Environment Program.
Secretariat of the Vienna Convention
and Montreal Protocol,
Box 30552 P.O., Nairobi, Kenya
Tel.: (254 2) 621234
Fax: (254 1) 226886/226890
1598ri r-9
26.05.95



r IR   RO I21    HA PHG N& ;   24 2 13sJ. 1  MIN  P
UPIACEXATFEAL
r~. MQB
.~ 
CTOpM MU c2uIWA  avSwuK  0  o zpsc
o0o0obo   WKM  N WMHpW*1bO  nlpO'HM
eot BasaTD8M, p aGzmmO4  0WOt8o cm
rQaMTeAbCTuO     POCCKRQt       Ul nPaLlo NTBORAWM    COm
RpNDCPM40Cta  POINHO  fla'4 110 IaW TG QOM "W    O CW X I DWIdJN I
npHxMme oGsiuaTr  rno roHe H 1oH1m m6 DoxpaHe Oawv             CMm  X
Vwbcmr         npoot4ony no ocWcTwM. p;pyUUm   oKHoPd  C!I. I
lQJIWT HC ,O=MUa   HHM4pMI4pVbOLT  C70PoIof  BoHCMR ' KO94*I        I
mmIpoMcb =  npmvrOIM 0 cSZyapu.
rocckRQA4 cropoo    waocpmuoa  naArowom     npvet    nprpmsf
noomrmro   ca            npaenomw  H noTpc6mJIH   OOS;paapymN.
DOqTrD  pa3paGOTamwo  c y'eWTc pUaynbTTVp ccaBmii mccl*OJIUDaI,
1WIWHmIx   pocVbA1mIt    m  )*4pCTpWOa    XCnepTaW  npH" nOf AOE
ArVtoTCD  m-i o sp.ie avpyxawa  cpM AWN.
JlpDz1UbcTDo P?oCHACKO Got   tACpp4K    npTlp         Cnc4flWbID
noCTaiw om  a flCPD  pemW   MOeaX  no  DBMCur i@1) uOdMaa crT
PoclI*cn1    -4eqCpatin :u.o uApalw  runoro  ,U. 1oT0M    npOAsyP)0f&M
cWpsTMO AOi,ACrTu  no orpannYcii.     B0nonaowaoM  oe4OMPa pYusW
GqCTD. YoTanoolhA   cEOMa4   CMITC'l   IMa oymmer"m     am   p7a
HlpTB o=vpewpymwux venpcT.  a  mm              onhmi  0Tow cOcTy=p
nooumom Wpeamnctro  npoTsoa     s  worn  Topronw  oe1pepymwa
ue :sume C  rocyAWfaw,  N0 ROAP<II4 C_opo.mum   Moiipem,R
npo?Umb   mAete    uxT orpcSwemh npmwAc?,  no pacwmck aLp im.
XCCp9aGp m   1007 r. nfoplc6tHR  oomt ap       x  Dewc1   npWCpho
86 np a=ob no cpamem*  c oGewm  19M  roAa.
CotpCTHP'r cWICKA KimMCItp*I
H IoHpebnaro nposmIc,
n.0. n/n 30652. HaP4x-km. Kernn
T7m: (254 2) 021234
7Uwa; (254 2) 228688/X2288G0



.4
HBo'ops Ha To, Do  5  1993  rcny  rpU4BoMCT?O   MOs4P?34  p
BeIacThs    PUCCMAGKof  ftX~p&Mi~ cocTauIuv 40   a? oG'wm  1090 roan,  o
HaToxWO Di0hw 1i tipeACTaWMGTCN  bOMO1M  I K3Th   V  np@flPs?ITh   MX
npflwoAcToo  X noTpeoIHHe K  I mra     190   r.. * Ki            Topem
mrnou       Nmpcamcro   7OTOI. Pauma4  to pGWcmWx 1WmepNsswo
?16=0I  1MI flpOeKTOs no 3am0e o           paapywaS co8oT  Htumtfra
r~1~ HS PMIPxJ?R G'TWAH*.
npaameermr  Poccmawio ftiepaUm    0spaCTmh    K    ompao
BOHCKOR MMX*BMR   K  MWpeanboo,ru IIPDT         C nPOC* a npoAnWr  WE
Pocv"x to 4 rom cpom  nomr  npwqmwuphN  npomwxc7s  H             ea/am
XMOPTpyrnOBpo 4os.   MPX)Wlxpncrt  yrMepOA&  n UIS?"3O             ia X
roAa - vp=a  nperqi7tti  npomoBoflm     k rxpe!as  raw.
k  Wu Oii npa1H3iaHTuwb   aa  mwome  meaMapom=   Ow5coDo
CXAZMCThsR B   o0CYICTWac"H  nTpmma   npoatneucm    Poocm    W
o8ohocOeperaC  TOXIJWO?HH.
n/n uepvu             D. 'wepKom



GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
RESOLUTION
Dated May 24, 1995
# 526
City of Moscow
ON PRIORITY MEASURES TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH
THE VIENNA CONVENTION ON OZONE LAYER PROTECTION
AND MONTREAL PROTOCOL ON OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
With the purpose of ensuring compliance with the obligations undertaken by the
Russian Federation under the Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer of 1985 (hereinafter
referred to as the Vienma Convention) Protection and the Montreal Protocol on Ozone
Depleting Substances of 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the Montreal Protocol), the
Govermnent of the Russian Federation has resolved:
(1)   To approve the attached priority measures to ensure compliance with the
obligations related to ozone layer protection undertaken by the Russian Federation for a
period of 1995 - 1996 (hereinafter referred to as priority measures).
(2)   To authorize the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
of the Russian Federation to carry out coordination of work related to the implementation of
the priority measures.
(3)   The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the
Russian Federation, Committee of the Russian Federation on Chemical and Petrochemical
Industry, State Committee of the Russian Federation on Defense Industries, Ministry of
Nuclear Energy of the Russian Federation, Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation,
Federal Service of the Russian Federation on Hydrometeorology and Environmental
Monitoring, Ministry of Science and Technological Policy of the Russian Federation,
Committee of the Russian Federation on Machine-Building, Committee of the Russian
Federation on Trade, Ministry of Public Health and Medical Industry of the Russian
Federation, Committee of the Russian Federation on Standards, Metrology and Certification
shall be authorized to ensure in the course of 1995 priority financing of work related to the
implementation of the priority measures within the limits of allocated state resources and
extra-budgetary funds attracted for this purpose.
(4)   The Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation, Ministry of Finance of
the Russian Federation, and Ministry of Science and Technological Policy.of the Russian
Federation in cooperation with the federal bodies of executive power.concerned shall be
authorized to provide in the course of 1996 targeted financing of work related to the'
implementation of the priority measures within the limits of state resources allocated for the
said purpose from the federal budget.
(5)   It shall be established that as of January 1, 1996 exportation of ozone depleting
substances and products containing such substances to and the importation of such substances



and products from countries which are Parties to the Vienna Convention and the Montreal
Protocol, as well as exportation of ozone-depleting substances and products containing such
substances from the Russian Federal shall be carried out under special licenses.
Importation to the Russian Federation of ozone depleting substances and products
containing such substances from countries which are not Parties to the Vienna Convention
and the Montreal Protocol, as well as exportation of ozone-depleting substances products
containing such substances from the Russian Federation to the said countries shall be
forbidden.
TIhe Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Russian of the Russian Federation
in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations of the Russian Federation,
State Customs Committee of the Russian Federation, and the federal bodies of executive
power and organizations concerned shall be authorized to compile a list of ozone depleting
substances and products containing such substances being used in the Russian Federation, the
exportation and imnportation of which are regulated by the Montreal Protocol.
(6)   The State Conmnittee of the Russian Federation on Statistics shall be authorized
to ensure the submission, by August 1 of each year to the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Natural Resources of the Russian Federation, of statistical data on the
production, consumption and utilization of ozone depleting substances in the Russian
Federation for the previous year, so that to keep the Secretariat of the Vienna Convention
and the Montreal Protocol informed on this issue as required under Article 7 of the Montreal
Protocol.
(7)   The State Committee of the Russian Federation on Standards, Metrology and
Certification of the Russian Federation in cooperation with the federal bodies if executive
power concerned shall be authorized to organize metrological support for work related to the
implementation of the priority measures, working out and, if that should be necessary,
abolition of state standards on ozone depleting substances and products containing such
substances, as well as certification of such substances and products.
(8)   The Committee of the Russian Federation on Chemical and Petrochemical
Industry in cooperation with the federal bodies of executive power and organizations
concemed shall be authorized to work out, within a period of three months, and submit to
the Government of the Russian Federation proposals for the setting up of reserves of ozone
depleting CFCs to provide for continued functioning of the currently operational equipment,
and for organizing a system of collection, storage, regeneration and utilization of the ozone
depleting substances the useQf which is regulated under the Montreal Protocol.
(9)   Based on the results of the discussion by Parties to the Vienna Convention and
the Montreal Protocol of the State of the Government of the Russian Federation, the Ministry
of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the Russian Federation shall be
authorized to submit to the Government of the Russian Federation a timetable for phased
reduction in the production and consumption of ozone depleting substances.
Federal bodies of executive power and organizations - consumers of ozone depleting
substances shall be authorized to submit, by December I of each year, to the Ministry of
Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the Russian Federation applications for



the production of required amounts of CFCs in accordance with Decisions IV/25 and V/18
of the Fourth and Fifth Meetings of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol.
The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the Russian
Federation shall be authorized to ensure to submission by December 31 of each year to the
Secretariat of the Vienma Convention and the Montreal Protocol of the consolidated
application of the Russian Federation for the production of ozone depleting substances and
to inform the applicants of the results of the discussion of their application within a period
of three days following the receipt from the Secretariat of the Vienna Convention and the
Montreal Protocol of the corresponding decision of a meeting of Parties to the Montreal
Protocol.
Signed:
V. S. CHERNOMYRDIN
Chainman of the
Government of the
Russian Federation



L~~~~~~~3H*, kL2LvI'Nol a  X       foy  rinpdolmc liox.71jioog lu.*oiii3lnrl&odu
Uox3itHnm=w m zIKH@itdxootvd&tc (=dzi,iiHIe 'rovdojd ou zsHnadamcp
Itomm:00cl  (.LLKNo-  'oIIiH*od1,5oIIImtw  Ou  "illbd2=0  U')xOW1P'*Od
HAu.Lumo    IHKtda*c  WlHouvioul ixtatotu  IoNHtfl&u             i uoxoMllO
s LFzio)0  zHKfl3d,D<   VOXEplIS4>d  6 tXH=IsIItla   II9.11X     1I HXBII
.jzd2uLwsHij 'rnd3 Lta' OIVc'd*o fLuidoutHom ii slJoodoadLa3vormu
ou  Io33o0  o*9wkn  UoHrqtd;2b4   'sistlnudacm     Uox3uoIId  :-siodogo
At=dIWKH5qI 'HRd3IIC  doanols ou IiIhumacbM4g Lioxjjw*Od Au3d*=iiiV43I
'I&.o"eUMnrnwodu  uwu,Idio  IirwJodogo  Du  iw4haduaVa, UoxU od
L*IHIOX    J(OHHwtamdvvqOJ    '11OHHurIivlodu   VOX3h 11IIRM419;H
H },2OX:3luHWSX OU HHVIt&d34) OXmIH"330d I s1Ltwo>j 'uitlmd*4y Uo=LtH3HOd
vood4ood tIir<odHdu m id=  jptnotimxdxo rwudxo iL*d= HsIip E
hswnudavgv vo=u:Koa
soodS:ad  3a%ioddu    I  n%fad., pniuucCdxo  ruwdxo  lAda=i.umy1
dan rqH=daroogrcbu ffKrrInriad oux Logid ooneIsHudoox uahAdolU z
'(ndan w;ud2hoozdau - xU1oLua)t 2aI3? 3it c 9661 - 661I
RH  wou3 cuosoHomo  amsdxo on slainlUdav*0  boxnH33od *qB*iuuuDKo
o sWLouns on  %d2hI *rtIHd&ikOdau aqwgmngdu  u.duogo -I
: .1. a  r s o Ii I  J. a a u HIMT&W5   mUOx3LMod o=u.aLifsvdUj (roxowodu
tx*lquwmdwoVj - M0lS11 .OH  t   11170A L861 361 Itzon vriomoco uriocmo dtad
'wvgamn*s ou uoxowdu NoxD%=duoW  N (rwhl4Hox ItB       g - v3.laSIWH
oo:Um) WoiJ S861 Krto lovoRoo Olnudlo 90 inIUIIHO?x yox3H2g ou
Hmh:dabflcb aox*Htmd Wci9Osago pK1uroung immhao qDo            g
pro VzsqtgOfo wtl(hOicfiAdCad
,Iulabuas ou rumojLodu uOjcxrcadot sU wiav coijomomo
wsndxo 90 zIsXHmfh   L=3na onmumaArmma-ouxedxi -xmuWiuod.oLu.
9Z S r    ' 5661 196"wOZAIo
I Ilivid3r3o UOYMAIMi0Od OELJJXS11YJU
_wei.zt 



?
no cThlI,apTn:3aSu, 8cTpozormH H CCpTOIflcU14I4" o6acnewm a 1995 roAy a
npisopl-apHou   nops=e   tspuraHcxpowaimeI   p&6or   no   PCMIJ3MA3l8if
ficp3oo4cpv4mhtz map M (LpCiciYax liWefte,mbix rOcyaapcTItiHwx aCCIhIioEsHiiR
it npHnexveacmLx sc6IOCOTmHIx Cpe4cru.
4. MwulcTepcry 3KOHOUKmK  PocaRdaoA Oczepatu,, MHircpcmy
4mHHaHoos Poccdczolt O=epau1HH H MKHaimcnpcry R*ayxm it T1 H1ecxoR
noimIwxH  PoccHAlcICoA  MCAepauHm   conmsemo    c  3an4tpapcoaimbimui
*tDDpaJbHn114  opr1aiHaM  *lMOAtHKT&HbHO   3a=TU nPeM'Mo1PCT   1 6 roM
tqeesos *H)OHCHposaInc pa6OTr no paIZH3awIK  napioo'aepewuwx mep b
npcacax accuernoUHj$1, ppeOcYctrpHueMsix a tCepahom 5l0oACT Ra 1T11
S. YcTaHorBmT, qTr  c I sHaap 1 996 r. 5o03 m JIUC03 O3OvOpa3pyWalOu)IX
zcug=T  u coAepxsCuui HZX npoMxuN  S crpSIfbi, SRWQIUHCcI CTOPOI1aal
BexccxoA  zoHeXIKH  K MoxpcLOorO  [IaToxomn, ocymuecrx=c   no
coOCsyIouImu ImUen3uuM.
3anper,im  310 a PoccHRoCzw (epauD o3oH0opa3pywaumHx seutecrm
H co*cpzautucN xx nponyxumt 13 capam, neo xUmowNxc Ciropoxauti BeHczcoa
xOHFCIIWIN H Mosipeaucroro npoToicona. a zaitIxe 4smO  i  POCCUiAcxO1
'23tcpaLWNI o00OPH3PYlUUOlIX ICUCt5 It CoAcpxauuIt HS nPOJYtUKH  a
)X338U111  CTpIHLI.
M    8Hutccpy opaIHLI OyxOiu  cpei K itnpfpoK0ux pecypcos
PocxutcxoN   4beAepa1H   CoIKe=o   C   MMHHHCTC9TaOI    BKCWLHIIK
5omoHO)ccnlX   caseAi  PowincxoM    ceprum.  rocyAapcrsnemxwt
7sMueuH"biM  x0mmJt<Om  Poc=necxoR  eIcpawun,  lHHUTepCCOMIUIh(MI
Oewparnimetun  opRHRAl  uCnomX.bhIOR   MUnM  JS  OprMrnaHHA)AMM
OnpAehnTh    OnDcox    Kc0ofyea    I   PocC.ilcxOl R         Pncepauus
O3OHOpa3pywaoUiUx itemuc   H coxespXtia2    HX npoaxYIUHH,. 003 )I INWI03
KoTopLi1 prJpyiTcx MoHpeInhcxHm npoToxoJJoM.
6. rOCYAapCTCHHOMY KOMMTCnT POCCIIACXOR OeCPtlUSIN nO CT nTIeCTkte
oGm       w-np Taw cAo- -ltsrycr  x,Aoro  raAa a MmlmlCrcpcmBo
OXpalN oxpymJot.IA cpeaD N  lnpNpOmiix peCypw  PoocuiOraoR  0teCPRtHH
* CrTNCTM'WOCKHI AIMMINX 0 nOPO380ACnC. nOTP0=HIH 11 HNCr1JIO308&HHN
030N0POp3pWLUSHX NOeWWU 5 POCCHACCOR 44eiepalUHH 311 flpUMAYwLuj4  roA
AUN HH@OPMUZPOBSHM CeXPeMPHZa  BeHCXOII XOUHWeUHK m MOwipOuniCxoro
rPOTOJXQna  N  COatCTvhHc    C TPC6pcoafxlmHi  cmHm .7  MoiIpeamcoro
npoToxona.
7. rocyAUpcTreHHOwy   xomTT    PoccfcxorA   0eonepaLn"   no
CT2HAH)SPTh38W4H,   mCTOrmH       H    CCprniInxaiUiuI   coBMecTHO    C
2atinepecoasHliwms    4cancpwrbwum  oprpSAmFi  iiencioniwrTxtoii  anacin



3
opramnor:m   mcqpofrtOecQoe  o6ecnre4mp, p3o6T  no  peuaItatuWiI
ncpsO30pC=v6x  Mep,  pR3paG60oy  tl  llpH   H0e6:omtmOCH4  omUuy
rocyiapcmociinzx cTHfl8pTca Ha  mOH6c2onlaasfle iawecma u ConACP yyI
nix npoUmyxuro, a mxSe nposceaeHe Hx cepm*xawuw.
S. KoNrizTy   POCCMf1CKOi1   OcAepsluhmf   no   mXStuHiCON    N
HCTCIMB'iCllCiI NpOmmIweCHHocTh  COsmccHO    C  53aKTiepCcatwImHim
i4pAJfl.HbMx opraHaMIt KcnOAHNT'nW Gol IjISc     N opramHULVImN   a
3-mecruiRnw  cpox pa3pa6ouTh it npAcmswm s rlpuiTrCmo PocCiilcxog
4epaupsi  np4W!oeCiMs   no    CO3flHHO    pc3epHXi    3anaco*
o3oHapaipywaituH   zuop TopyrzcponoR ni  oGeeneqelRxl Haxo4muerocs a
3xwcwymr=iv  o6opyiouainiim, 'a mx,e 'no opramm3auir  cuucieilw c6opa
XpaIcHNS, peHmpAL       RJHHf N  7TJ4I3H5UHH  o3oRoGp3jYU)'W0BIMO   NelCIU ,
lp"Hm cuiuse o-rophx perymspy     Mostpeanmcuvm UpoTOXoJom.
9. lb  pwynbuaium paccxo7pai  Crcpoxsum   Beicxa  KOms3 HnN ii
MoRpcanucxoro  npOTOKOX o 06PAueMIX  flPasNmTia  POcculJCxaO
cezepaCuHm   M     Cepcmy oxpaXPa) oUxpyzmmUzeC  cpczm  it nfpHpofihl
POYPCOB PoecCwaCXof  P?egepawtw fPlAcJsCTH  S IIPIZHTWUc=O POccidlcXOR
0c,mcpaLlm rpaBm nomafll4oro coxpIu2eKmI upommtoA3J      m noipe6nziwiu
O3OHOpflpyWuBloUZ  saleCT.
_15X--osK.RcnonnaN=  it  oprtHamaimm  -
nllopc5HTCJE  030HOpUyhIwZ    seCC   lSO l ACKn6Ps EaN'OEO rogA
PleACrawuff7  a )AKMHcTpCTO O*paH   Oxpyz=OLxci CPeAw  H npwpoAmwz
pCCypcou POCCUfCcOA *PtAep&URk  3a51XH -RA npON3CoAc&O  fOo6Xo0NlHMlZ
o6heseoB xnopfTopyrnepoaws s coonCTcTnNW C peuemHmxmH IV125 i VWig
'4mqmro iI rlworo coNCz4mAul CTOPOH Moxpeaascxoro iipoTotoARB
MllmxCrCPy OXP9H6) OXPYUIOfQCA CPCW  H  pMipOAHWAX PCCYPCOB
PoccHmfIcx  OR pa=im o6eccUvHTb nplc3rTaMuHNo Ao 31 Aexx6ps xaJAoro
roAa s CcxpeTapaT BeHCXOn  XOHBCeRW!H H Moipcan6cxoro npoToxoJs.
CUOAHOA    3121XM    POCCHKCKOA    (DcAepEIXN    Na    flPOH300ACT3O
o0o3opa3pyWalouwlx BewecUCn N HzOpUMPORiHC maxi3mis O paynmmTx
P3CCMOT-p6Sx txx 3assox s 3-AJIHwA cpox nocJe nuwy1Ms3 or CXpvrapKsTz
gemarxoA  iOHmeIUm  N  MoHpeanbcoro  npo0ona  cooT^uCTcTIyOwcro
pewaxz cosoubwni CTopO MoM pemsu cora npOTotoua.
lipeAccAaTc1b npas 
POcciAeKxoIl O eVpea                        B.YtPHOMLTPAIIII
KADOCIJTOA(1eW05MS.DOC



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of I
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES CONSUMPTION PHASE-OUT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT SELECTION CRITERIA
The following summarizes the investment sub-project selection criteria agreed between
the World Bank and the CPPI for application within the framework of ODS
Consumption Phase-Out Project. These criteria have been applied in the selection of
investment sub-projects now proposed for all tranches of the Project. They will be
applied in the event of changes in project scope associated with funding adjustment or
where substitutions are necessitated based on changes in enterprise interest or appraisal
results.
Two general types of selection criteria have been identified. The first referred to as
Prim        Criteria  are the principal determinants in sub-project selection. The second
category, referred to as Secondary Criteria, are to be considered as guidance in making
final selections and differentiating between closely competing sub-projects.  The
following provides a summary of these criteria in each category, listed in order of
priority:
A.    Primarv Critera
1.  Consistency with Country Program priorities.
2.  Strategic implications of the proposed sub-project in relation to overall national ODS
phase-out objectives (both consumption and production phase-out).
3.  Absolute amount of ODP consumption phase-out achieved by the sub-project.
4.  Sub-project cost effectiveness.
B.    Seconday Criteria
1.  Availability of grant funding.
2.  Enterprise viability and long term business prospects.
3.  Relationship between the proposed sub-project and other related ODS consumption and
production phase-out activities within the proposed enterprise and/or the sector in which
it operates.
4.  Importance of grant support in allowing a potential beneficiary enterprise to undertake
phase-out investments.
5.  Likelihood that a proposed sub-project will serve as a technical or commercial
demonstration for emulation by others.
6.  Sustainability and innovation in technology selection.
7.  Local social implications and benefits associated with a sub-project.






IBRD 27740
TAo ho  dories colarr denom,nat.ons                                                                                                                                                                 - UNITED STATES Ut OMEOICO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNIIDSWE 0
,ht -ap dono --pI7,oy t  por of                                                                                                        RUSSIAN   FEDERATION
Th. Word o-k Ot-ip. any o.dg-nrt
ccrie gi tau ofN an y terioy o                                            OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE CONSUMPTION PHASE OUT PROJECT
-ny -nd-tn-, or-ccptnc of
*  PROJECT CITIES
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
UNITED    -                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
U  Vt'.iSDOtt  sut,aey,a,   5.e                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES'                       s      0C
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NCRWMAY-                                    -
-DtrttDS                                  SWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8   2
GERMANY          -                                                                                                                                                                                       &0        --                                 I
-    j                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~78                                                       f
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ------
70~~~~~~~~~~1                                                           59
68;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~8
53                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 73              0~
-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~170 -,71                                                                                                                                                                                    8
~~yl                                               6                               K,...y k~~~~~~~~T 
~~  /.MtS0t51   ON -.                 /  lO~~~~~~SEr .SNj         0    Do200          0"'A .m.,F                                6
I NORTH             II NORTHWEST                      III CENTRAL                     IV CENTRAL                  V NORDH CAUCASUS                 VI VOLGA                VII "0100  VYASKA            ViII UR,c                I'NESTERN USBER A          X EASTETI- SIBERIA          XI FAR EAST
I Arklt-rgl          7 Noogaro.d                12 Rry-rk   22 T.la                    CHERNOZYOFA               30 Ctech-n                       40  Astrkk-a             4R  Ch.-asl                53.Eshrtsa               61 Altar                   70. Earyat                  80 Amior
2 N-nlo              8 Pkoc                     13Yco-oo       23 Vladimi            25 Sa1gorod                 31 Daghest-n                     41  KalItyk-i            49  Krr-                    54  Chelyab,,,Sk        62. Gore7y Altal            71 Chita                    81  K-och.otla
3 Ko-li              9 tnn-grad                 14 KaIu~9a    24 Yor-rlo1            26  K-1sh                   32 In5us,h                          KI.taIg Taegclt       50 Marly El                 35. Karga-              62  K--reaa                 72 Ag,,, B.ryar             82 Koryak
4K(am                0 S, Pete...b,r5 Cay       15 KoStromo                          27  Lipetsk                 33 Kabardina Ro1kar              42 Peeza                 51. Maroon                  56. 0rerb,rg            64  Naoosibirsl             73  lrkut,k                R3. Khoboroosk
5M. _c nnk           II  KoI-,,iqrod            16 Moso-                             28 lT'tROo                  34 K--srdar                      42  Serrate              22 Niah.ry Na-garod         57  Perm                65. Orotk                   74  Uut~-0rdyn Roryat,      84 J-wsh AO
6 Volayda                                       17 Moscow CitY                       29 Varo...oh                25. Ady8eyo                      44. Sarat-o                                           R  Kor--Pe-rrrol       66 lTn-kl                   75  Kr-noyars,              85 Mogadal-
18Ore                                                           36 North 0ssetio                 45 Ta-tarta                                         59. Udmor                67 Tynter                  76. Eae,,k                  86. ChhAt1
19   ya..n                                                      37 Raso-                        46 VIolgo8rd                                          60 S-ed-aos             68 Khaoty-M-nsi            77 Khalkas                  87 P-imrsh
20  Smole-sh                                                     28 Stranr.oal                   47 Ulya--os                                                                   69 Yte-ol-Ne..etS          78 Tommy                    88. Sakholir
21 Tact                                                          39. Karaoho-o-Chekess.                                                                                                                   79. T-oa                    89 S-h.r (labAl
FREBRUARY 1996









IMGN
Report   No:        15326 RU~~I
Type: PD~~~~~I
Printed on recycledpaper~~~~~~~~~~'<



