Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND TF028314
Global Environment Facility Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement
(Ozone Depleting Substances Consumption Phase-out Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Implementing Agency of the 
Global Environment Facility
Dated September 29, 1996 
GEF TRUST FUND NUMBER TF028314
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GET Trust Fund) by certain 
members of the Bank,  as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 (Resolution No. 94-2) of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1995, establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GET Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with Resolution No. 94-2;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant (the Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph is added at the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: "21. ‘Special Drawing Rights’ and ‘SDR’ mean special 
drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund in 
accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the use of such 
term in the second sentence of Section 5.01 thereof (as herein 
modified), means the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also 
include the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account; 
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."; and 
(viii)a new sub-paragraph  is added after sub-paragraph (k) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "(l) An extraordinary 
Page  3
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Country Program" means the program for the phase-out of ODS, adopted by 
the Recipient on May 24, 1995, through Government of Russia Resolution No. 526, and 
submitted to the Parties to the Vienna Convention on Ozone Layer Protection and 
Montreal Protocol on ODS under a letter dated May 26, 1995;
(b)
"CPPI" means the Recipient’s Center for Project Preparation and 
Implementation, a non-commercial organization founded by the Ministry of Environmental 
Protection and Natural Resources pursuant to Order No. 247, dated December 2, 1993, 
and duly registered on December 30, 1993, by the Division of Registration on 
Noncommercial Organizations, Department of Social and Political Relations, Municipal 
Government of Moscow, or any successor thereto;
(c)
"GEF Council" means the Council of the Global Environmental Facility 
referred to in Article 11 of the 1994 Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environmental Facility, or any successor thereto
(d) 
"Inter-Agency Commission" means the commission referred to in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e)
"JSC Arnest" means Arnest, a Russian private joint stock company, located 
and registered in the city of Nevinnomyssk, Stavropol Krai, pursuant to Decision No. 
897 of the Head of the City Administration, dated November 11, 1992, as evidenced by 
Certification of Registration No. 000590, or any successor thereto;
(f)
"JSC Krasnoyarsk" means Krasnoyarsk Refrigerator Plant "Biryusa," a 
Russian private joint stock company located and registered in the city of Krasnoyarsk, 
Krasnoyarsk Krai, pursuant to Decision No. 304 of the Head of the City Administration, 
dated December 8, 1993, or any successor thereto;
(g)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation, or any 
successor thereto;
(h)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, or any 
successor thereto;
(i)
"NPAF Supervisory Board" means the supervisory board of the National 
Pollution Abatement Facility, to be established by the SCEP, MOF, and MOE pursuant to 
Government of Russia Resolution No. 808, dated August 11, 1995, or any successor 
thereto;
(j)
"ODS" means ozone depleting substance or substances;
(k) 
"ODS PIUs" means the project implementation units referred to in 
paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Participating Enterprises" means JSC Arnest, JSC Krasnoyarsk, and other 
enterprises selected by the Recipient in accordance with this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time;
(n)
"SCEP" means the Recipient’s State Committee for Environmental 
Protection, or any successor thereto;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(p)
"Sub-grant" means a grant from the Recipient to a Participating 
Enterprise made or proposed to be made pursuant to a Sub-grant Agreement;
(q)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means an agreement between the Recipient and a 
Participating Enterprise, entered into pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
Page  4
(r)
"Sub-project" means an ODS phase-out project referred to in Parts A and B 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and selected and approved for financing pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty one million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachments.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Bank shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds from the GET Trust Fund 
for the purpose of the Project.
Section 2.05. The CPPI is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the SCEP, Inter-Agency Commission and the CPPI, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
engineering and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the  
Grant.  
(b)
The Recipient shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by the Recipient of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Section 9.07 
of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.05.  The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that 
each Participating Enterprise complies with all relevant environmental requirements of 
the Recipient for any ODS phase-out activity to be carried out under the Project, 
including approval of environmental impact assessments of each Sub-project by the SCEP 
prior to the implementation of each such Sub-project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain and cause the CPPI to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments and agencies of the Recipient and the CPPI responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall and shall cause the CPPI to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information con-cerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall or 
shall cause the CPPI to:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;  and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
Page  6
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, the Chairman 
of the State Committee for Environmental Protection is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
State Committee for Environmental Protection
B. Gruzinskaya Street, 4/6
Moscow, 123812
Russian Federation
Telex:
411 692 BOREI
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C. as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
  as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
(a) for Parts A.1, B.1
  4,870,000
100% of foreign
    and C.1 of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
(b) for Parts A.2, B.2
 33,420,000
expenditures
    and C.2 of the Project
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Works:
(a) for Parts A.1 and B.1   350,000
80% of local expen-
          of the Project
ditures
(b) for Parts A.2 and B.2   490,000
80% of local expen-
    of the Project
ditures
(3)
Consultants’
Services:
(a) for Parts A.1, B.1 
    550,000
100%
    and C.1 of the Project
(b) for Parts A.2, B.2 
    350,000
100%
    and C.2 of the Project
(4)
CPPI Agency Fee:
(a) under Part C.1 
    130,000
100%
    of the Project
(b) under Part C.2
    of the Project
  1,040,000
100%
TOTAL
 41,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient; and
(c)
the term "CPPI Agency Fee" means an agency fee referred to in paragraph 3 
(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, due and payable by the Recipient to the CPPI.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 4,100,000 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1995; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of 
this Schedule, until: (i) the Sub-project in respect of which disbursement is sought 
has been approved by the Bank and the GEF Council; and (ii) the Sub-grant Agreement 
for such a Sub-project has been entered into by the CPPI, on behalf of the Recipient, 
and the concerned Participating Enterprise in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
4.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Page  8
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
5.
The Bank may permit withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (i) expenditures for goods and works under contracts 
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; and (ii) expenditures for consultants’ services 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in a phase-out of ODS 
consumption, in a manner that is consistent with international efforts and standards 
and that results in minimum of economic dislocation.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
ODS Consumption Phase-Out Activities in the Aerosol Sector
1.
Conversion of JSC Arnest’s aerosol technology to permit the usage of hydrocarbon 
aerosol propellant instead of chlorofluorocarbon, through the provision of goods, 
works and services.
2.
Undertaking of other Sub-projects regarding the conversion of aerosol technology 
to permit the usage of hydrocarbon or other acceptable ODS substitute materials in 
place of chlorofluorocarbon, or to convert to other spray on non-spray technologies 
which do not rely on ODS, through the provision of goods, works and services.
Part B:
ODS Consumption Phase-Out Activities in the Refrigeration Sector
1.
Conversion of JSC Krasnoyarsk’s technology to permit the usage of propane/butane 
refrigerant mixture in place of chlorofluorocarbon-12 in domestic refrigerators and 
freezers produced by JSC Krasnoyarsk, through the provision of goods, works and 
services.
2.
Undertaking of other Sub-projects regarding the conversion of technology to 
permit the usage of ODS substitute materials in place of chlorofluorocarbons as 
refrigerants and foam blowing agents in the manufacture of domestic commercial and 
industrial refrigerators and freezers, and development of facilities for recovery and 
recycling of ODS from refrigerator and freezer servicing, through the provision of 
goods, works and services.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening, Project Management and Implementation
1.
Provision of technical assistance for project preparation and implementation, 
and institutional strengthening, and of financial compensation to the CPPI for 
implementation and monitoring of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for project preparation and implementation, 
and institutional strengthening, and of financial compensation to the CPPI for 
implementing and monitoring Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," published by the 
Page  9
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $32,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the sub-project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, the first contract for works procured by each Participating 
Enterprise under national competitive bidding procedures, and the first two contracts 
for goods procured under international shopping and national shopping procedures, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  10
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works  and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 6,860,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
Page  11
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The SCEP shall be responsible for overall Project coordination and supervision.
2.
An interagency commission (Inter-Agency Commission), established pursuant to 
Government of Russia Resolution No. 875 "On Approval of Resolution on Inter-Agency 
Commission Within the MEPNR for Protection of the Ozone Layer, and Staffing of Such 
Page  12
Commission" (dated August 30, 1993), shall be responsible for coordinating the 
implementation of the Project with the Recipient’s agencies within the framework of 
the Country Program.
3.
The SCEP shall:
(a)
enter into a project implementation agreement (Project Implementation 
Agreement) with the CPPI, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including a provision regarding an agency fee (CPPI Agency Fee) of up to three percent 
(3%) of the amount disbursed under Sub-grant Agreements;
(b)
cause the CPPI to appraise and select Sub-projects and ensure that 
Sub-projects are approved in accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the procedures and eligibility criteria 
set forth in Parts A and B, respectively, of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(c)
make available, through the CPPI, a part of the proceeds of the Grant as 
sub-grants (Sub-Grants) to Participating Enterprises to finance Sub-projects, under 
sub-grant agreements (Sub-grant Agreements) to be entered into between the CPPI and 
each Participating Enterprise, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; 
(d)     exercise its rights and cause the CPPI to exercise its rights under the 
Project Implementation Agreement and each Sub-grant Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Recipient, the Bank and the CPPI and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not, and shall not allow the CPPI to, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Project Implementation Agreement or any Sub-grant Agreement, or any provision thereof; 
(e)
pursuant to the Project Implementation Agreement, delegate the day-to-day 
technical and administrative responsibility for Project implementation to the CPPI.  
The CPPI, through ODS project implementation units (ODS PIUs) established within the 
CPPI, and other departments within the CPPI, shall be responsible for: (i) 
procurement; (ii) accounting; (iii) disbursement; (iv) auditing; (v) reporting and 
monitoring; (vi) evaluation of activities under the Project; (vii) appraisal and 
supervision of Sub-projects on behalf of the SCEP; (viii) entering into Sub-agreements 
on behalf of the Recipient; (ix) implementation of activities related to the 
strengthening of the regulatory capacity and ODS phase-out monitoring capacity of the 
Recipient; (x) supplementary project preparation activities for ODS production and 
consumption phase-out; and (xi) development of public awareness initiatives, all under 
Part C of the Project; and
(f)
cause the CPPI to engage consultants who shall assist it in the area of 
procurement, financial management and information systems, and Project performance and 
progress evaluation. The CPPI shall report to the SCEP and liaise with the 
Inter-Agency Commission, and Recipient's ministries and agencies, and other parties 
regarding Project activities. 
SCHEDULE 6
Sub-Grant Procedures, Eligibility Criteria and
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Grant Agreements
Part A.
Procedures
1.
No expenditures for goods, works and services required for a Sub-project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless: (i) the Bank has 
received and issued a no objection with respect to the Sub-project; and (ii) 
expenditures under the Sub-grant for such a Sub-project shall have been made not 
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received 
the application and information required under paragraph 2 of Part A of this Schedule 
in respect of such a Sub-grant.
2.
In addition to the general procedures described in paragraph 1 of Part A of this 
Schedule, the following procedures shall be followed in connection with any proposed 
Sub-project:
(a)
a proposed Participating Enterprise seeking a Sub-grant shall prepare and 
submit to the CPPI an application and summary of the proposed Sub-project;  such an 
application shall include: (i) a description of the Participating Enterprise; and (ii) 
Page  13
a detailed description of the proposed Sub-project, including technical plan, 
financial plan, cost and benefit analysis, environmental impact assessment and other 
pertinent environmental information, financial projections, proposed procurement 
arrangements, and status of authorizations and licenses.
(b)
the CPPI shall appraise the proposed Sub-project;
(c)
after the proposed Sup-project has been appraised and pre-approved by the 
CPPI, it shall be submitted to the NPAF Supervisory Board for approval;
(d)
after the proposed Sub-project is approved by the NPAF Supervisory Board, 
the CPPI shall submit to the Bank, for the Bank’s review and no-objection, the 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, together with any other 
relevant materials requested by the Bank, related to the proposed Sub-project, 
including a draft Sub-grant Agreement with the proposed Participating Enterprise, and 
a description of how the proposed Sub-project meets the eligibility criteria set forth 
in Part B of this Schedule; and
(e)
upon the Bank’s no objection, the CPPI shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
enter into a Sub-grant Agreement with the Participating Enterprise.
Part B.
Eligibility Criteria
1.
All Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with eligibility criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank, and consistent with the following primary and secondary 
eligibility criteria.
2.
Primary eligibility criteria are:  (i) consistency with the Country Program 
priorities and objectives; (ii) strategic implications of the proposed Sub-project to 
overall national ODS phase-out objectives (related to phase-out of ODS consumption and 
production); (iii) absolute reduction of ODS consumption to be achieved by the 
proposed Sub-project; and (iv) cost-effectiveness of the proposed Sub-project.
3.
Secondary eligibility criteria are: (i) availability of grant funding; (ii) 
proposed Participating Enterprise viability and long-term business prospects; (iii) 
relationship between the proposed Sub-project and other related ODS phase-out 
activities within the proposed Participating Enterprise and/or the sector in which it 
operates; (iv) importance of the Sub-grant to permitting the proposed Participating 
Enterprise to undertake ODS phase-out activities; (v) likelihood that the proposed 
Sub-project will be replicable by other parties; (vi) sustainability and innovation in 
technology selection; and (vii) local social implications and benefits associated with 
the proposed Sub-project.
Part C.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-grant Agreements
1.
Each Sub-grant Agreement shall require the Participating Enterprise to, inter 
alia: 
(a)
carry out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers, and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, commercial and managerial standards; 
(b)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices its operations and financial conditions, including separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures related to the 
Sub-project; 
(c)
have its records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors satisfactory to the Recipient, and furnish to the Recipient not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year so audited and the report of such audit by the 
auditors of such scope and such detail as the CPPI shall have reasonably requested 
(which report shall include an analysis of the Participating Enterprise’s performance, 
as measured by the performance indicators satisfactory to the CPPI and the Bank, which 
shall include, inter alia, commercial, technical, operational, environmental, 
administrative and financial indicators); 
(d)
procure the goods, works and services to be financed by the Sub-grants in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and to use such goods, 
works and services exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
Page  14
(e)
contribute counterpart funds necessary to finance the Sub-project;
(f)
allow the Recipient, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants 
and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents; 
(g)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against 
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, 
including insurance covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and 
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-grant to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable 
by the Participating Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(h)
prepare and promptly furnish to the Recipient, for forwarding to the 
Bank, if so requested by the Bank, all such information as the Recipient or the Bank 
shall reasonably request relating to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Participating Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; 
(i)
give the Recipient the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-grant upon failure by 
such Participating Enterprise to perform its obligations under the Sub-grant 
Agreement;
(j)
refund, upon demand of the Recipient, any part of the proceeds of the 
Sub-grant as well as interest thereon calculated at the commercial rate from the date 
of payment of the Sub-grant by the Recipient (until repayment thereof by the 
Participating Enterprise), which, in the opinion of the Recipient or the Bank, has 
been misused by the Participating Enterprise; and
(k)
at the conclusion of the Sub-project, submit to the Recipient, in a form 
and manner, and by date satisfactory to the Recipient and the Bank, a Sub-project 
completion report.
2.
Each Sub-grant shall be: (i) denominated in Dollars; and (ii) equal to no less 
than $150,000 and no more than $9,000,000.
