Document of          FILE    Cl
The World Bank                             pY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3253-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
SECOND PORT PROJECT
March 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =       Sudanese Pound (LSd)         100 piasters
LSd 1.00 = US$0.90
US$1.00 = LSd 1.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =             0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (tonne)                              2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
MFNE  -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOT   -   Ministry of Transport and Communications
RBPC  -   Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
RTC   -   River Transport Corporation
SPC   -   Sea Ports Corporation
SRC   -   Sudan Railways Corporation
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SECOND PORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:        Sea Ports Corporation (SPC)
Amount:             SDR 21.5 million (US$25.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard.
Onlending Terms:   To SPC, at 15 percent per annum for 20 years, including
4 years of grace.
Project
Description:     The proposed Project would, over a priod of three years,
improve physical handling capacity and operational pro-
ductivity, enabling Port Sudan to meet projected traffic
until 1987. The Project would supplement the First Port
Project (Credit 781-SU), which concentrated essentially on
increased capacity for general cargo handling, through:
(a) berth modifications, including paving of handling
areas, enabling the port to meet the rapidly growing
container and roll on-roll off traffic; (b) improvement
of grain and edible oil handling facilities; (c) Improve-
ments to the electrical power system within the port;
(d) increased efficiency in general port operations and
management through the provision of communications facili-
ties and technical assistance and training. The main
Project benefits would be the avoidance of congestion until
at least 1987 and elimination of demurrage charges, cargo
damage and losses. The greatest risk affecting the Project
lies in traffic growth lower than the current forecast of
6 percent per annum. In the unlikely event that traffic
growth would drop to 3.5 percent per annum, the projected
economic rate of return would drop from 26 percent to
about 14 percent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Summary of Project Cost:
Major Elements
Local    Foreign   Total
--------US$ million-----
Berth Modifications              1.6       7.4       9.0
Grain Silo Modifications         0.2       3.9       4.1
Paving                           0.4       1.6       2.0
Edible Oil                       0.2       0.9       1.1
Communications                   0.1       0.4       0.5
Electrical Modifications         0.3       3.0       3.3
Training                         0.05      0.5       0.6
Technical Assistance             0.2       1.5       1.7
Engineering and Supervision    0.05        1.2 1/    1.3
Total Baseline Cost
(excluding duties and taxes)   3.1       20.5       23.6
Contingencies:
Local    Foreign   Total
Physical                       0.3       1.7       2.0
Price                          0.9      2.8        3.7
Total                        4.3     25.0       29.3
Financing:
Local    Foreign   Total
--------US$ million-----
IDA                              -      25.0       25.0
SPC                             4.1         -       4.1
Government                      0.2                 0.2
Total                        4.3     25.0       29.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                        1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
----US$ Million------------
Annual                                  1.5      9.0      9.8     4.2      0.5
Cumulative                              1.5    10.5    20.3    24.5    25.0
Rate of Return: 26 percent
Appraisal Report: No. 3454-SU, March 12, 1982
Maps: IBRD No. 13901R
IBRD No. 13081R2
1/   Including $250,000 PPF advance.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A SECOND PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for SDR 21.5 million
(US$25.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Second Port Project. Except
for an amount of $4.7 million for improvements to the Government-owned grain
silo, the Credit proceeds, i.e. $20.3 million, would be onlent to the Sea Ports
Corporation (SPC) at 15 percent per annum for 20 years, including 4 years of
grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January, 1981.  Its report No.
3551a-SU of February 16, 1982 has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
The findings of the mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social,
economic and financial data are presented in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 18.5 million (1980
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$478 (1981 Atlas methodology) 1/. Much of
the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is relatively
little population pressure on the land. Although much of the country is
desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential for agricultural
development. About two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or
pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this land is under inten-
sive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, the major
commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is limited to processing
agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds and sugar and to the pro-
duction of consumer goods and building materials. A development of potential
significance to Sudan-s prospects is the discovery of oil reserves in the
southwestern part of the country. These reserves are large enough to 3elp
satisfy part of the country's domestic requirements, and a development project
to meet this objective is now being considered. The public sector has long
been important
1/   Based on the official exchange rates for the period 1978/79 - 1980/81.
Based on the parallel rate (of LSd 1.00 = US$1.25) which applied for most
transactions in goods and services in 1980/8i, per capita GNP would be
about US$287. On November 9, 1981 the official market and the parallel
market were unified at the depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11 (para.
12).



- 2 -
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises are
being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is still generated
within the public sector.
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of payments
crisis. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current account increased
from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained between US$450 and
US$550 million until 1980/81, when the combination of a doubling of oil prices
and a serious decline in cotton production pushed the deficit to over US$700
million. In spite of high levels of external aid commitments, disbursements
declined between 1976 and 1978. Gross official reserves have fallen to only a
few days worth of imports. By mid 1981, external payments arrears of between
$1.5 and $2.0 billion had accumulated.
5.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government-s ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse developments in
foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces -- reduced flows of
external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and absorptive capacity
constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was, however, a
sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78; since then,
imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined in real terms
by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1980/81. The decline was con-
centrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift from cotton to other
crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The volume of cotton exports
today is about 40 percent of the 1971/72 level. Transport difficulties and
other infrastructural problems contributed to this decline, as did declining
maintenance in many public irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity problems,
disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the first few years,
dropping from $463 million in 1974 to $183 million in 1977. Because of the
slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external donors became less
willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a difficult choice: either to
cut back on projects just started or to maintain the projects by running down
foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or other sources abroad.
The Government decided to try to sustain the development effort by using
reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms. As the reserves



- 3 -
ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Annual external
public debt service payments increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to above
$300 million in 1980/81. The debt service burden as a proportion of exports
of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to around 25
percent in 1980/81 (excluding repayment of arrears from previous years).
The reasons were (a) the huge amount of external borrowing in 1974-77; and (b)
the fact that a large proportion of the borrowing was on relatively hard
terms. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to a heavy current
debt service burden, but also has critical implications for future debt
service obligations (para. 18).
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan-s public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the expansion has slowed in succeeding years, the growth
rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged nearly 25 percent per
year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again rose to around 40 percent.
The expansion of the money supply has contributed to an acceleration in annual
price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 20 percent in recent
years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have been for social and
community services, transfers to local government, and general administration.
The sharp increases in general administration expenditures were due in large
part to rising wages and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost
of living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side,
tax revenues have increased over the past few years; but since the tax system
is relatively inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with
frequent new tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the
relative contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in production and
trade, the Government has taken several significant decisions in the last
three years aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium, restoring export
growth through appropriate policies and public investments, improving the
performance of the public corporations, and improving the management of the
nation-s external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
stand-by agreement with the IMF that resulted in drawings of 51 million SDRs.
The agreement included a 25% devaluation of the Sudanese pound and declarations
of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing and short and medium
term foreign borrowing within certain limits. Also, the Government announced
that the pricing system in the irrigated agriculture sector would be reformed
and that land and water charges would be imposed on most crops. In May 1979,



- 4-
agreement was reached on a set of policy actions to be taken by Government in
order to obtain access to a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for SDR
200 million. The policy actions involved essentially an extension of those
agreed under the preceding Fund Stand-by.
11.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. The program included measures to improve incentives for cotton
production, to further reform the exchange system and to limit credit expansion.
Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the Government was not able to
make drawings in the third and fourth quarters of 1980/81. Subsequently in
March, 1981, several measures were taken to strengthen the central government's
budget: increases were effected in petroleum product prices, import duties
and the prices of cigarettes and liquor.
12.       In November 1981, a major economic recovery program was announced
by the President. The main components were (i) a unification of the official
and parallel exchange rates at a new depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11;
(ii) removal of budgetary subsidy for petroleum products, wheat products, and
sugar; and (iii) measures designed to raise revenues and constrain credit
expansion. On February 24, 1982 the IMF approved a one-year Stand-By
Arrangement for the Sudan of SDR 198 million.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91.
However, by mid 1981 the actual production of seed cotton had declined further.
Hence, achievements of original EAP targets for 1990 would now require a
substantially higher average growth rate. Several investments in the irrigated
subsector are aimed at reversing this deteriorating trend. Under the Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC
Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million), funds are being made
available for urgently needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabili-
tation projects will be carried out in the 1980s (the New Halfa Rehabilitation
Project, Credit 1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these). In
addition, several policy measures are underway in the areas of cost recovery,
cotton marketing, and institutional reform.
14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size
of its overall development program, as reflected in the Six Year Plan, to
a more realistic level that was consistent with expected external and domestic
financial resources. In 1979 the Government completed the Three Year Public
Investment Program, for the period 1978/79-1980/81. This program has recently
been updated to cover the years 1980/81-1982/83 and preparations for the
1981/82-1983/84 program are under way. A central objective of this program
is to increase exports and revenues. To that end the Government has adopted a



- 5 -
new strategy which concentrates on completion of ongoing projects (parti-
cularly those in the productive sectors), rehabilitation of existing
production schemes, and alleviation of critical infrastructural bottlenecks.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has begun to take action to help remedy the problems
of the public enterprises. For example, in September 1979 the Government
announced the abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate
structure in agriculture and replaced it with more autonomous agricultural
entities. Organizational reforms have been implemented in the industrial and
commercial sectors as well. During the past 12 months the Government has
substantially increased the prices for products of public corporations to
improve their financial positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier (para. 7), Sudan's external debt burden has
been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1980 amounted to more than US$3 billion. Scheduled
debt service payments for 1981/82 exceed US$600 million. During the mid-
seventies external debt management was weak, in part because authority to
engage in foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was
divided among many different ministries and centralized control on the amounts
and terms of loans did not exist. This inefficiency was ameliorated through
the decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A new debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance became
operational in 1979, but this unit is not yet operating efficiently. Funds
have been allocated under the recently-approved Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1153-SU) to improve the performance of the DMU.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt and arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the rescheduling
of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the
United States) and the Government reached agreement on: (a) a rescheduling
or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1, 1979 and not paid
(arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts owed for the
period October 1979 and June 1981. This arrangement will apply to loans from
governments or public agencies which had original maturities of more than one
year and which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
18.       The Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about $480 million
in arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and about $60 million of
future debt service obligations. While the Paris Club agreements were more
generous (in terms of period and percentage of debt service covered) than
other such Paris Club agreements and reduced the country's financing gap
to more nearly manageable proportions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short
of resolving Sudan's medium term external payments problems. An agreement
with the commercial banks was signed December 31, 1981 rescheduling a total
amount of around US$500 million.  In January, 1982, major donors met in Paris



- 6 -
and pledged around US$250 million towards the balance of payments gap for
1982. These efforts will, however, not be sufficient to solve the Sudan's
long term debt problem: A meeting of the Paris Club was held in March 1982,
at which time 90 percent of the debt service payments originally falling due
between July 1981 and December 1982 were rescheduled over a ten year period.
The Bank Group is planning to convene a Consultative Group meeting later this
year.
19.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long-term debt service is
about 2 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1980/81) and of debt out-
standing and disbursed is almost 10 percent. We estimate that the Bank/IDA
share of debt service will drop to 1 percent in 1984/85 when the Bank/IDA
share of debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 12 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$721.7
million and SDR 84.4 million. Of this, US$33.2 million are IFC commitments.
There have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 30 credits for a
total of 35 projects. Twenty projects are under implementation as well as one
planning assistance project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank. About
45 percent of the total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development:
three irrigation projects; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three
smallholder development projects, two in the southern region and one in the
west; a livestock marketing project; an agricultural research project; an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program; the New Halfa Rehabilitation project; the
Blue and White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Projects; the Western Savannah
Project and the Agricultural Services Project (the latter two yet to become
effective). Projects in other sectors include: three power projects, two
education projects, two highway projects, a domestic aviation project, four
railway projects, a port project, two technical assistance credits and two
credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan has
been poor. Many projects suffer from logistical difficulties, while the
continuing outflow of skilled manpower to the Middle East takes its toll on
effective project preparation and implementation.  Beyond these difficulties
there are other shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome Government
procedures. For example, there have been protracted delays in getting par-
liamentary ratification of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in
obtaining legal opinions from Government. There have also been inordinate
delays in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in
establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, com-
pleting necessary legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing
arrangements. These problems have repeatedly been brought to the notice of
Government authorities, and efforts are being intensified to help resolve
them. Difficulties encountered in project implementation are reflected in



- 7 -
Sudan's disbursement performance. The disbursement rate, i.e. actual dis-
bursements during the year as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at
the beginning of the year, has declined over recent years from 23.4 percent
in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81. The latter figure includes disbursements
against the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000-SU), a quick
disbursing commitment. Excluding this program Credit the FY81 disbursement
rate was 10.4 percent as compared with a rate of 19.3 percent for Eastern
Africa and 21.5 percent Bank-wide. The suspension of Sudan's withdrawal
rights, effective from September 8 to December 17, 1981, as a result of
default on service payments due, has had an additional negative impact on
disbursements during the current fiscal year.
Strategy
22.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agriculture and supporting
infrastructural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the
Government's current objectives, more importance will be placed on the
rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation schemes and on
helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. A major objective is to
generate increased export earnings to support the recovery effort. The
emphasis in Bank Group lending will be to support those activities that
contribute prominently to the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular
those that help increase exports and expand government revenues.
23.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies as reflected in the Export Action Program and the Three Year Public
Investment Program (ref. paras. 13, 14). An Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program Credit, the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, both with the
objective of helping the country generate increased export earnings, and a
third power project, were approved in FY1980. Rehabilitation projects for
pump schemes along the Blue and White Nile were approved in FY1981. Other
projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigation
scheme (Sudan's largest), a petroleum development and marketing project a
sugar rehabilitation project and further investments in power and transport.
Previous Bank Group Lending for Transport
24.       To date, the Bank Group has approved a total of eight lending opera-
tions to an amount of US$213.0 million for transport in the Sudan. The first
Bank Group commitment to the Sudan was for Sudan Railways (a Loan of US$39.0
million in 1958), followed by two subsequent Loans and two Credits. A Third
Window Loan of US$12 million, combined with a Credit of US$8 million for
the Fourth Railway Project were approved in 1977, bringing total lending for
railways to US$114 million. Two Credits for Highways of US$7 million and
US$41 million were approved in 1972 and 1979 respectively. A Third Window
Loan of US$20 million and a Credit of US$9 million for a Domestic Aviation
Project were approved in 1976. A Credit of US$22 million for the First Port
Project was approved in 1978. This project is being implemented successfully
(paras 35, 39).



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
25.       Adequate and efficient transport facilities are critical to support
the country's economic recovery and development. This is reflected in the
Government's 3-year investment program FY1980/81-1982/83 which includes
LSd. 475 million for the transport sector out of a total of ISd. 1,600 million.
Over half of this is earmarked for completion of ongoing projects.
26.       With increased inter-modal competition, transportation planning is
becoming more complex, raising questions of intermodal choice, timing of
investments and pricing policies. The UNDP financed planning team, with a
transport sector component assists the Government in sector planning.
27.       The Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) continues to be important in
import/export traffic, but its role in internal transport is very limited,
accounting for about 9 percent of internal freight movements in 1980. The
Fourth Railway Project, approved in 1977, has improved locomotive availability.
But the operational improvements required to utilize available material to its
full advantage have been slower to materialize. The opening of a paved high-
way between Port Sudan and Khartoum in 1980 has provided strong competition
from the trucking industry which offers more reliable services. Consequently,
the most pressing problems are in the upgrading of technical and managerial
skills, including marketing and traffic management which are necessary to
complement hardware inputs and to restore SRC's competitive position.
28.       The national highway network is limited in length and quality.  At
present, there are about 1,500 kilometers of bitumenized road, out of a total
of 16,000 km. Ongoing investments are, however, increasing the length of
modern roads. The opening of the paved Port Sudan-Khartoum road in 1980 has
decreased travel time by two-thirds and has substantially increased the volume
of truck traffic in this corridor. Feasibility and engineering studies for
additional components of the trunk road network are underway and are expected
to lead to further major investments. Increased attention is being given to
the need for rural access roads. The maintenance capacity of the Roads and
Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) was a principal focus of IDA's First Highway
Project; its equivalent in the Southern Region was given similar attention in
the Second Highway Project.
29.       Port Sudan, the country's deep sea port is managed by the SPC.  The
First Port Project (IPA Credit 781-SU) is under implementation (para 39). The
proposed Second Port Project, which makes provision for handling a substan-
tially increased container traffic, would provide adequate capacity to at least
1987. With comparatively minor additional investments by 1986/1987 Port
Sudan's capacity could be further increased to meet traffic requirements until
1990 or beyond (para 44). Nevertheless, proposals for a new port at Suakin to
begin operations by 1987, have been under consideration for some time both by
the Sudanese Government and by possible financing sources, notably the Federal
Republic of Germany and Saudi Arabia.



- 9 -
30.       Southern Sudan is served by two methods of moving lower-value
freight--the railway branch to Wau and river transport to Malakal and Juba.
The River Transport Corporation (RTC), which until recently had a legal
monopoly on Nile River transport, has managed in recent years to increase
substantially its barge capacity. This has not however, resulted in a signi-
ficant increase in traffic. An EEC financed study, results of which are
expected in 1982, should give guidance on the future development of river
transport.
31.       In view of the size of the country aviation should play an increasing
role, and it offers major advantages when one considers both the cost of
creating alternative surface transport and travel time. To facilitate the use
of faster, more efficient aircraft for more hours per day, the Government
decided to upgrade Port Sudan Airport, the busiest of the regional airports
and three southern airports. The remoteness of these airports (Juba, Wau,
Malakal) led to much higher bids than expected and although Juba will be
developed, the Bank and IDA have had to withdraw from financing the other two,
as the economic returns are now too low to justify the developments proposed.
Exacerbating the problem of remoteness is the unreliability of Sudan Airways
(SA). Despite SA's recent acquisition of two new aircraft, its services are
erratic and unreliable even on main routes.
32.       Apart from road transport, all modes are owned by public corporations;
these are revenue earning enterprises, which should be able to contribute
to the financing of transportation investments. Their financial position is
examined below. The largest corporation is SRC, which between 1972 and 1975
incurred losses. In 1976 with increased tariffs and traffic, SRC became
profitable but its financial position subsequently weakened and in 1980
the net loss was nearly ESd. 8 million. The main factors have been poor and
unreliable operations, combined with sharply increasing competitions from
truckers.
33.       Port Sudan has been profitable and SPC should be able to generate
adequate surpluses to support future expansion at Port Sudan (paras. 58-60).
34.       For the last ten years the RTC has operated at a loss varying
between 20 and 60 percent of operating costs. The regions served are among
the poorest and most remote in the country, and the Government is purposely
subsidizing transport services as a contribution to their development. RBPC
has no significant revenue and it operates virtually as a Government depart-
ment. Analysis of the Civil Aviation Department's (CAD) revenues and expenses
shows that the Department generates a small surplus after depreciation. Sudan
Airways- accounts are not up-to-date but SA appears to continue to be un-
profitable.
35.       Experience in implementing past transport projects in Sudan has
been mixed. Physical improvements are slowly but steadily being made in the
railway, though managerial problems have proved to be intractable. The First
Port Project is, however, proceeding without significant problems.  As men-
tioned in para. 31 above, construction problems were critical in the aviation



- 10 -
project whereas highway projects have proceeded without serious difficulties.
Given the critical importance of transport to the economy, constant attention
will continue to be paid to the operational and financial efficiency of the
corporations and organizations involved in the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The Project was appraised in November, 1980.  The staff appraisal
report (No. 3454-SU, dated March 12, 1982) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. The Credit and Project Summary sheet is at the
beginning of this report and a supplementary data sheet is at Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from January 11 to January 19, 1982;
the Government delegation was headed by Mr. Osman Mustafa, Undersecretary,
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Background
37.       Port Sudan was developed primarily as a railway port.  Extensive
rail networks on the quay areas impeded mobility of modern wheeled cargo-
handling equipment and much potential operating and storage area was absorbed
by rail track. The port was therefore ill-suited to accomodate growing truck
traffic. Moreover, cargo handling operations were inadequate to handle the
growing volume since very limited cargo unitization and mechanization had been
introduced. Handling rates were low and damage was high.
38.       The Bank Group financed, under Credit 457-SU (Third Railway Project),
consultants services to examine the need and alternatives for expanding
Sudan-s port capacity to the year 2000. The consultants also reviewed SPC's
organization and operations with a view to improving efficiency. The port
development study by Livesey & Hendersen/Coopers and Lybrand was finalized in
1977, and the First Port Project was based upon it (Credit 781-SU; US$22.0
million, approved in March, 1978). At about the same time, the Government
commissioned the consultant firm of Rhein-Ruhr, financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany, to undertake a feasibility study for a new port near
Suakin, about 60 km south of Port Sudan. This study, also completed in 1977,
recommended that development at Port Sudan be limited and that the new Port
Suakin be constructed as soon as possible. After reviewing both studies, the
Association concluded, at the time of appraisal of the First Port Project in
July 1977, that Port Sudan-s capacity limits would be reached by late 1984,
and that construction of Port Suakin with a view to its operation by 1984
would be consistent with the First Port Project. However, this conclusion is
no longer valid (paras 40,44).
39.       The First Port Project comprises the major part of SPC's 1978-1980
investment program and provides for the modernization of the port to increase
its physical capacity, operational productivity and efficiency thus relieving
congestion through the provision of: (a) civil works; (b) equipment for cargo
handling, emergency services, pollution control, maintenance and repair; (c)
harbor craft; and (d) technical assistance and training for management and
operations and design of consultancy services for the 1980-83 investment



- 11 -
program. Implementation of the First Project is well under way and has
already significantly improved the port's effective capacity in general
cargo handling, the main objective. Productivity to date has increased by
about 30% and should reach 50% upon project completion. The rail system on
the main quays has been extensively revised and simplified to allow the
unimpeded use of modern cargo handling equipment, increase operational cargo
storage areas, remove redundant track, and improve trucking operations. Civil
works bids were however much higher than estimated. Certain items were
therefore deferred to a subsequent phase of development and are, in part,
included in the proposed second project (para 47c,d,f).
40.       As noted above, at the time of appraisal of the First Project it
was envisaged that new port capacity at Port Suakin would be required by the
mid eighties. Nevertheless in view of uncertainties remaining, provision was
included in the First Port Project to carry out detailed engineering and
design of further improvements to Port Sudan in the event that development of
Port Suakin should be delayed. Delay has indeed occurred, largely due to the
following developments which no longer support the early development of Port
Suakin: (i) traffic growth has been slower than forecast (para. 41); (ii)
unitization of general cargo has increased at a rate exceeding projections.
These two developments, combined with productivity improvements resulting from
the First Port Project; the proposed Second Port Project; and further, rela-
tively minor, investments by 1986/1987 at Port Sudan (para. 44) obviate the
need for additional capacity at Suakin before at least 1990.
41.       Port traffic since the 1976 projections (on which the First Port
Project was based), shows an actual increase in total traffic from 3.53
million metric tons in 1976 to 3.98 million metric tons in 1981, as compared
to the projected 5.00 million metric tons so that growth in total traffic over
1976-1980 was about 70 percent less than forecast at the time. Imports have
increased more but exports substantially less than forecast. The main reason
for the deviations from forecasts lies in the overall performance of the
Sudanese economy, with expectations regarding the pace of expansion in the
agricultural sector not being realized and exports failing to meet targets
(para. 6).
42.       In addition to lower-than-expected total volumes, the traffic
composition has had an impact on capacity requirements. Imports tend to be in
larger ships than exports, and the total number of ships declined from 1,200
in 1976 to 1,100 in 1980. At the same time the average ship capacity increased
from about 3,200 to 4,100 net registered tons over the same period. This has
assisted in improving productivity and, despite the 24 percent increase in non
petroleum traffic, average berth occupancy has declined slightly to a still
high level of about 90 percent, (as compared to an optimum of about 80 percent).
A further factor, expected to be of increasing importance in the future, has
been the advent of container and roll-on roll-off services. The accelerated
introduction of these services has resulted from the elimination of congestion
at Jeddah, the major Red Sea port, and the subsequent establishment of syste-
matic unitized services between European ports, Jeddah and Port Sudan.



- 12 -
43.       Future traffic is difficult to predict because of the major uncer-
tainties affecting the economy's development (para. 5). Based on the fore-
casts prepared by the consultants Livesey and Henderson in preparation of
this Project and those of Rhein Rhur in preparation of an updated proposal for
Port Suakin development, financed by the Federal Republic of Germany, two sets
of forecasts, based on, "high" and "low" assumptions of growth rates, have
been developed for both import and export traffic through 1992. The forecasts
adopted, which underlie the proposed Project, are consistent with the two
consultants' forecasts. Their export forecasts were scaled down to reflect
the Government's current Export Action Program 1980-90 established early 1981
in consultation with the Bank. Data deriving from the Export Action Program
were not available to the consultants (para. 13). With "high" and "low"
forecasts for both imports and exports there are four possible combinations of
which the "high" imports and "low" exports scenario was adopted as the "best",
i.e. most realistic, forecast, resulting in an overall non-petroleum traffic
growth rate of 6 percent per annum, as compared to the 1976-1981 actual rate
of 4.6 percent per annum. Within this forecast, container traffic is expected
to continue growing rapidly, from an estimated total of 58,000 tonnes in 1981
to 500,000 tonnes by 1987.
Present Investment Requirements in Port Capacity
44.       In August 1980, a revised version of Rhein Rhur's Port Suakin
feasibility report became available. This report still advocates construc-
tion of Port Suakin to be operational by 1987, primarily as a container port.
The justification is, in the view of Bank staff, narrowly based upon the
assumption that Port Sudan's potential capacity is limited (i) by the total
number of berths available and (ii) more importantly, by the limited scope for
handling unitized traffic. Both assumptions are disputable. Bank staff
consider that, since a unitized berth has a considerably higher productivity
than a general cargo berth, the conversion to unitization of existing berths
will enable Port Sudan's capacity to keep pace with traffic demand, as cur-
rently projected, until 1987 with the improvements included in the present
Project proposal. With additional investments in Port Sudan by 1986/1987 of
about US$20 million equivalent at 1981 prices, Port Sudan would be able to
meet traffic requirements beyond 1987, until at least 1990. These investments
would provide for: (a) conversion of two existing berths (nos. 12 and 13) to
deep water berths, suitable for ocean-going ships, additional to berth modifica-
tions included in the proposed Project (para. 47(a) and (b)); (b) additional
container handling equipment. SPC's consultants, financed under the First
Fort Project, have already undertaken the physical investigations and have
provided cost estimates for the civil works involved. Detailed requirements
for additional equipment needed by 1986/1987 are currently under study.
Consultancy services, required to prepare the 1986/87 investments, would be
performed in conjunction with the consultancy services provided for under the
proposed Project (para 47(j)). Investment costs for Port Suakin are estimated
at US$350 million in 1981 prices. Large elements of these costs, breakwaters
in particular, are fixed and independent of traffic. Such an investment would
therefore represent a massive and premature commitment of scarce foreign and
local resources (the latter including expertise in port operations) under
conditions in which the timing of new capacity required, additional to Port
Sudan-s ultimate limits is still highly uncertain. In view of (a) the direct



- 13 -
bearing which premature construction of Port Suakin would have on utilization
of capacity installed at Port Sudan, reflected in a substantial reduction in
the Project's economic rate of return (para. 64) and (b) the current crisis
and the consequent need to adhere to the general investment strategy of
constraint and selectivity (para. 14), assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations to the effect that until completion of the proposed Project no
additional investments directly related to expansion of Sudan's port capacity
would be undertaken unless the Association would, prior to the making of the
investment concerned, be provided with evidence, satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, showing that the investment would be economically and financially
justified (Section 3.02, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Objectives
45.       The proposed Project would address the following two basic objec-
tives: (a) to increase the effective capacity of the port through development
of the Southern berth system as an integrated container terminal and moderniza-
tion of the grain silo and grain berth facilities; (b) to further improve the
cost effectiveness of management, operations and maintenance of equipment and
facilities through the provision of technical assistance and training.
46.       The Project would supplement the developments introduced under
the First Port Project, which concentrates on improvements in general cargo
handling. The proposed Second Port Project would focus on improving the
expeditious handling of unitized cargo (roll onroll off and container traffic),
thus relieving congestion and enabling Port Sudan to meet anticipated traffic
growth until at least 1987 (para 44) and adapt to current and prospective
changes in shipping methods, i.e. rapidly increasing cargo unitization.
Project Description
47.       (a)  Container handling facilities.  The existing berths (nos. 17
and 18, see map) would be converted to deep water berths, enabling their use
for container traffic. Paved areas on the quays would be extended to enable
efficient use of specialized container handling equipment, and the existing
tanker terminal, rail lines, water and electric facilities would be modified
accordingly.
(b) Roll on-roll off facilities. Berth 16 (see map), modified
under the First Port Project to accommodate roll on-roll off vessels using
an end ramp, would be extended to also accommodate vessels equipped for lift
on-lift off or angle ramp. The additional modifications included in the
Project would enable container handling at this berth as well.
(c) Grain silo improvements. The Project would provide for equip-
ment and modifications of the grain handling and storage facilities at berth
15 to enable an increase in the unloading rate from the present 120 tonnes per
hour to 320 tonnes per hour, thus enabling a substantial reduction in demurrage
and cargo damage as well as reducing the demands on general cargo berths for
bagged unloading. Improvements at the grain silo complex were included
in the First Port Project but were deferred due to financial constraints.



- 14 -
(d) Edible oil and molasses pipelines. To reduce ship-waiting
time and to lower costs through higher pumping rates, the Project would
provide for completion of an edible oil pipeline and construction of a new
molasses pipe. This was included in the First Port Project but was deferred
due to financial constraints.
(e) Communications. Improvements to the telephone system, ship
to shore radio and mobile communications equipment within the port area is
included in the proposed Project to facilitate efficient operations.
(f) Paving of handling areas. To accomodate the rapidly growing
container traffic additional paved areas for maneuvering and operational
storage are required behind berths 17 and 18 (see map). This would involve
relaying of existing rail track, drainage, grading and paving of about 3.8 ha.
In addition the Project would provide for laying a top-wearing course, to
avoid extra maintenance costs and premature resurfacing, over priority areas
where pavement was completed under the First Project, but where the wearing
surface was deferred due to financial constraints.
(g) Electric power modification. To reduce the downtime of port
equipment through power failures, standby generators, rectifiers and trans-
formers together with related works and wiring, will be included in the
project. The proposed modifications will focus on the grain silo and the quay
cranes to reduce ship waiting time.
(h) Technical assistance and training. Provisions for training
under the First Port Project have yielded good results. The proposed Project
includes a provision of 150 man-months of technical assistance and training in
the fields of port operations, financial management and accounting, and
equipment maintenance (para. 57 ).
(i) Construction of a headquarters building in Port Sudan. Part
of the design work for this component was included in the First Port Project.
As it is envisaged that SPC would finance this component from revenues gene-
rated by the port, costs for this component (about US$13.5 million equivalent,
including contingencies) are not included in the project cost estimates. This
investment has however been taken into account in the financial and rate of
return analyses.
(j) Engineering and supervision. Consultants would be retained to
supervise implementation of works included under the Project. This component
also includes preparation for further investment in Port Sudan, required by
1986/1987 (para 44).
Project Costs
48.       The total cost of the Project, excluding duties and taxes, is esti-
mated at US$29.3 million including contingencies and repayment of the Project
Preparation Advance. (A cost summary table is given in the Credit and Project
Summary). Total foreign costs amount to US$25.0 million. Cost estimates for
civil works are based on actual bids. Foreign exchange costs for technical
assistance (150 man-months) is estimated at US$10,000 per man month.  Foreign



- 15 -
costs for engineering and supervision (100 man-months) are based on an esti-
mated average cost of US$9,500 per man month. A physical contingency allowance
of 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for grain handling equipment is
included. Basic cost estimates of construction and equipment are based on bid
prices for the major contracts. Contingencies for price escalation are
included as follows: Foreign costs - 1982, 8.5%; 1983, 7.5%; 1984, 7.5%
Local costs - 1982, 15%; 1983, 10%; 1984, 7%. An advance under the Project
Preparation Facility to an amount of US$250,000 equivalent was granted on
January 23, 1981 for purposes of tendering and bid evaluation (141-SU). This
amount is included in the Project costs.
Financing Plan and Relending
49.       The Project would be financed as follows:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign      Total     Percent
IDA                   -        25.0        25.0        85.3
SPC                  4.1         -          4.1        14.0
Government           0.2         -          0.2         0.7
4.3       25.0        29.3      100.0
With the exception of the amount allocated for the grain silo complex (US$4.7
million), the Credit proceeds (US$20.3 million) would be onlent to SPC at 15
percent interest, with a four-year grace period to be repaid in equal semi-
annual installments during 16 years thereafter. Conclusion of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and SPC on these terms would be required
under the Credit Agreement and would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections
3.01(c) and 5.01(a), Draft Development Credit Agreement). Improvements at the
grain silo complex (para. 47(c)) would be executed by SPC with assistance from
the supervising consultants. However since the Government holds title to the
grain silo, which is managed by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan, SPC would not
be required to finance and service the relevant elements of foreign costs
(US$4.7 million) under the Subsidiary Loan arrangement. Instead the Borrower
would finance this component directly from the Credit proceeds (Section 3.01(b)
(ii) and (c), Draft Development Credit Agreement). Equally, the local cost
component for grain silo improvements, estimated at $232,000 equivalent, would
be born by the Government.
50.       The onlending rate of 15 percent per annum compares with commercial
lending rates in the Sudan ranging from 11 percent to 15.5 percent. The
current inflation rate of about 20 percent is projected to decline to about 10
percent over the next four years as a result of the Government's stabilization
measures (para. 10). It was agreed during negotiations that, in addition to
the onlending provisions, SPC would pay an annual amount of 5 percent of its
invested capital to the Government (para 59).



- 16 -
Implementation
51.       Implementation of the proposed project would be the responsibility
of SPC. SPC would rely on the services of a consulting firm for the supervi-
sion of project execution, as SPC does not have the necessary engineering
capability. Appointment of consultants, under terms and conditions and
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, would be required as a
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) Draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). As under the First Port Project, a Project Director would be appointed
to represent SPC and supervise the Project as a whole. A Resident Engineer
would be appointed to liaise with the consultant-s resident staff. The
function of the Project Director would be to supervise the work of the consul-
tants. The function of the Resident Engineer would be to represent the SPC on
site, to oversee the execution of contracts, and to supervise the resident
consulting staff. Implementation of the project is expected to take three
years. The studies and design for the civil works, carried out under the
First Port Project, have been completed. Tenders were called and have been
evaluated. Contracts would be awarded upon signing of the Credit Agreement
for the proposed Credit. In order to assess progress towards Project objec-
tives and enable a systematic review and evaluation of SPC's operations, a
monitoring system, including specific operational targets was agreed upon
during negotiations (Section 3.06 and Schedule 2, Draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       All contracts for civil works, material and equipment financed by
the Association would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
53.       Disbursements from the Credit would be made against:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for material
and equipment;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for engineering
services; and
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance (including refunding of the Project
Preparation advance).
(e) 100 percent refunding of principal and charges out-
standing under PPF advance.
All disbursement requests would be fully documented.
Accounts and Audit
54.       Initially, the accounting system used by SPC was identical to that
used by its predecessor--The Sudan Railways Corporation. Under the technical



- 17 -
assistance component of the First Port Project, it has been improved and
the system is sound and adequate for the needs of SPC, although SPC has had
difficulties in timely completion of accounts. This situation should further
improve with the return of 11 SPC staff members currently completing overseas
training. SPC is self-insured with minor exceptions. This is an accepted
practice. Under the Auditor General Chambers Act, 1970, SPC's accounts are
audited by the Auditor General.
Organization, Management and Staff
55.       Formerly a department of the Sudan Railways Corporation, the SPC
was established as an autonomous corporation in 1974, under the Ministry of
Defence, to administer Sudanese sea ports. In 1977 it was transferred to the
Ministry of Transport. The Board of Directors is headed by a full-time
Chairman, appointed by Presidential Order, who is based in the Khartoum
headquarters office. The Board is responsible for the overall planning,
direction and control of SPC and for liaison with Government and other
agencies both in Sudan and outside. The Executive Manager at Port Sudan is
SPC's chief operating officer. Reporting directly to the Executive Manager
are five senior executives -- the Directors of Shore Operations, Marine
Operations, Engineering, Finance and Personnel.
56.       SPC has experienced difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified
staff in the supervisory and technical areas. Among the reasons are the high
salaries offered to technical staff in the Gulf States, the high cost of
living in Port Sudan, and the isolation from Khartoum. SPC employs approxi-
mately 4,000 workers on a permanent basis. Some 3,700 workers are hired on a
daily basis for cargo handling and stevedoring from the local labor office and
cooperative society. Several hundred more workers are employed in related
activities outside the port area - warehousing, transport, etc. The port is
the principal employer in Port Sudan. The size of its labor force reflects
its present labor intensive cargo handling methods, and the severe climatic
conditions prevailing in Port Sudan.
Technical Assistance and Training
57.       Under the First Port Project, technical assistance was provided
to strengthen critical areas in port operations, procurement, stores, finance,
and equipment maintenance, and good results are being achieved. Additional
strengthening of the organization is required, particularly in the operations,
finance, workshop and maintenance areas. The curricula and training program
were drawn up by specialists financed under the First Port Project. SPC
itself is financing extended training in engineering, economics, marine law
and management information systems. Additional training provided for under
the proposed project would include refresher training for instructors, and
selected overseas training for special requirements. But the main thrust
would be in implementing the training school program, refining the curricula,
and developing procedures for monitoring and evaluating results. In SPC's
training programs high priority is being given to operation and maintenance of
port equipment and to supervisory and management skills.



- 18 -
Financial Evaluation
58.       Since its incorporation, SPC has consistently recorded a profit.
Traffic increases, combined with a general tariff increase in 1977, and an
ad valorem tariff on quay charges, have resulted in ever-increasing revenues.
At the time of appraisal of the First Port Project, it was agreed that a
specialist would be retained to determine costs incurred by the various
services and to revise the tariff structure as part of the technical
assistance component. The new tariff structure was introduced during SPC's
FY80. While a small element of cross-subsidization still exists, the tariffs
are now more closely related to costs. Due to its profitable operations and
low debt service requirements, SPC has been able to accumulate substantial
cash reserves since its incorporation. The current ratio and debt/equity
ratio are both extremely favorable and reflect a high level of liquidity. SPC
has completed an asset register under the technical assistance component of
Credit 781-SU and has revalued its assets, previously valued at historic
costs, in current values.
59.         Financial projections, based on the new 1980 tariff levels and
traffic forecasts as set out in para. 48, show substantial operating profits
during the next five years although declining from LSd 14.8 million in FY81 to
LSd 7.7 million in FY85 due to increased depreciation and interest charges
reflecting inter alia the Project investments. Thereafter profits will
increase. Annual cash flows are projected to be positive throughout the
project period, though declining from LSd 21.2 million in 1981 to LSd 6.0
million in 1985 due to the acquisition of fixed assets, increased debt service
charges, and the reduction in storage revenues. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that (a) SPC would at all times ensure that its revenues
will cover working expenses, debt service and a reasonable contribution
towards development costs; and (b) SPC would pay an annual amount of 5 percent
of invested capital to the Government (Section 4.03, Draft Project Agreement).
Section 4.03 of Project Agreement 781-SU of 1978 (first Port Project), pro-
viding for minimum annual returns on fixed assets (differentiated by time
periods) would be deleted and replaced by the foregoing provisions.
60.       During negotiations assurances were obtained that all port dues will
be collected within 45 days of the date of billing (Section 4.05, Draft
Project Agreement). In order to safeguard SPC's cash flow position during the
period of implementation, assurances were obtained from the Government and
SPC during negotiations regarding consultation with the Association whenever
investments, beyond those included in the Project, are estimated to exceed LSd
1.0 million per annum in total (Section 4.06, Draft Project Agreement). SPC
should maintain a reasonable relationship between net cash revenue and debt
service requirements. During negotiations, it was therefore agreed that,
unless otherwise agreed with the Association, SPC would not incur any debt if
its net cash revenue for its fiscal year or the twelve consecutive months
preceeding the date of commitment, whichever is greater, would be less than
1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements during the succeeding fiscal
years (Section 4.04, Draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
Environmental Impact
61.       The proposed Project will make no material change in the environment
of the port. Measures introduced under the First Port Project, which would be
continued under the proposed Project, are expected to have a substantial
beneficial effect on the waters of the port when fully implemented (Section
3.05(b), Draft Project Agreement). These include strict regulations on
dumping in the harbor and the deployment of equipment to deal with oil spills.
Increased attention to equipment maintenance is expected to reduce vehicle
exhaust pollution.
Employment Impact
62.       As new cargo handling equipment is introduced, a greater degree of
mechanization results and much higher productivity rates are developing.
However, it is anticipated that the effect on SPC manpower will be small as
traffic growth will be primarily in unitized traffic while the more labor
intensive, direct delivery and mixed general traffic will remain steady or
decline slowly.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
63.       The economic rate of return of the Project would be 26 percent.
Separate calculations for the container unitization aspects and the silo
component show a 31 percent and 30 percent rate of return, respectively. The
first year rate of return of the entire Project would be 23 percent, indicating
its timeliness. Included in the rate of return calculations are the costs for
a new headquarters building (para 47(i)), which is part of SPC's investment
plan, but for which no specific economic benefits are attributable. Also
included in the calculations are the further investments of US$20 million
equivalent, which would be required by 1986/1987 to ensure that Port Sudan's
capacity would be adequate to meet traffic requirements beyond 1987, until at
least 1990 (para 44). The main Project benefits derive from provisions for
unitized cargo, improved edible oil and molasses pipelines, upgrading of silo
facilities, and improved operational efficiency. Ship waiting time in SPC's
FY80 totalled over 3,800 days, resulting in an estimated aggregate cost, owing
to time losses, of about US$30.0 million accruing to the shipping lines. Of
this amount, about US$10.0 million can conservatively be attributed as a
direct cost to the Sudanese economy. With the traffic forecasts set out in
para. 43 and the full effect of the First Port Project yet to materialize,
average ship waiting time would decline from 3.5 days in 1980 to about 1.0 by
1984 and then increase again at least to 4.0 in 1987 without the Project. The
proposed Project would result in avoidance of serious congestion (para 44).
In addition unitized cargo facilities would reduce losses and cargo damage.
Grain silo improvements would result in considerable improvement in vessel
discharge rates and thus the elimination of demurrage charges, which over the
last four years amounted to an average of nearly US$1.0 million per annum and
which would, without the Project, be expected to increase to over US$2.0
million by 1987. The Project should eliminate these charges.



- 20 -
64.       A sensitivity analysis has been carried out which tests the effect
of the following variables, in isolation or combination: low instead of
"best" traffic forecast of 6% per annum traffic growth (para. 43); construc-
tion costs 10 percent greater than expected; Port Suakin operational in
headquarters building produces the result that with the low traffic forecast
and high costs, and Port Suakin operational in 1990, total project ERR (econo-
mic rate of return) declines from 26 to only 7.0 percent. However, excluding
the cost of the headquarters building, for which no benefits are identified,
produces a significant improvement in ERR to between 10.3 and 12.8 percent.
With the best traffic forecast, current cost estimates and Port Suakin assumed
to be operational by 1990, the ERR would be 17.1% (or 19.7% if headquarter
building costs are excluded). Taken as a whole, the sensitivity analyses show
acceptable rates of return. The greatest risk affecting the Project lies in
lower traffic growth than the current forecast of 6.0 percent per annum. In
the unlikely event that traffic growth would drop to 3.6 percent per annum,
the economic rate of return would drop from 26 to about 14 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Sudan Ports Corporation and the Association, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Conditions for effectiveness, additional to those stipulated in the General
Conditions would be: (a) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para 49
and (b) appointment of consultants, instructors and experts (para 51). Special
features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Project
Agreement are listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 29, 1982



International Development Association FILE  C&PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR                                                                      For consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                                April 20, 1982
DIRECTORS' I                                                         l_i
1zMEETING 
IDA/R82-38/1
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                             April 8, 1982
SUDAN: Second Port Project
Corrigendum
The attached replaces page 20 of the President's Report and Recommendation
(P-3253-SU) on a proposed credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for a
second port project, distributed on April 1, 1982 under IDA/R82-38.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 20 -
64.        A sensitivity analysis has been carried out which tests the effect
of the following variables, in isolation or combination: low instead of
"best" traffic forecast of 6% per annum traffic growth (para. 43); construc-
tion costs 10 percent greater than expected; Port Suakin operational in
1990 and the effect of inclusion and exclusion of the cost of the head-
quarters building in total project costs. The high relative cost of the
headquarters building produces the result that with the low traffic forecast
and high costs, and Port Suakin operational in 1990, total project ERR (econo-
mic rate of return) declines from 26 to only 7.0 percent. However, excluding
the cost of the headquarters building, for which no benefits are identified,
produces a significant improvement in ERR to between 10.3 and 12.8 percent.
With the best traffic forecast, current cost estimates and Port Suakin assumed
to be operational by 1990, the ERR would be 17.1% (or 19.7% if headquarter
building costs are excluded). Taken as a whole, the sensitivity analyses show
acceptable rates of return. The greatest risk affecting the Project lies in
lower traffic growth than the current forecast of 6.0 percent per annum. In
the unlikely event that traffic growth would drop to 3.6 percent per annum,
the economic rate of return would drop from 26 to about 14 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Sudan Ports Corporation and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Conditions for effectiveness, additional to those stipulated in the General
Conditions would be: (a) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 49)
and (b) appointment of consultants, instructors and experts (para. 51). Special
features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Project
Agreement are listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 29, 1982






- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE LA
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                      Page  1
SUDAN                              REFERENCE GROUFS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            2505. 8                                      MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      315.2                   1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)            .          140.0       170.0      370.0*                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           54.2        151.6      141.4                  70.5                    707.5
POPULArION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    11256.0        14090.D   17862.0
UKaAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    10.3           16.4       23.9                   17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             31.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               86.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             4.5          5.6        7.1                  27.7                     55.0
PEK SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          37.0         46.0       55.1                  73.7                    130.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                              43.7         43.7       44.1                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                              53.2         53.4       53.1                  52.4                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.1          2.9        2.8                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.9          2.2        2.6                    2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                   6.8          6.9        6.8                   6.5                      5.1
CRUDE  lIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         45.3         45.7       45,7                  46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          25.0         21.0       18.0                   19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.3          3.2        3.2                    3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           .
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               92.0        100.0      100.0                  89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        71.0         86.0       93.0                  90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               53.0         61.0       65.0                  52.7                     52.8
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            23.0         19.0       19.0                  17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MEORTALITY RATE         46.5         37.5       28.5                   27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCT AT BIRTH (YEARS)         39.2         43.2       47.3                  45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                   ..       132.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           .        46.0                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                    * *                   49.0                  55.0                     74.3
RURAL                                    ..           ..       45.0                  18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         16.0       22.0                  26.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..         ..                  63.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              33500.0      14304.6    8694.4                31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          3041.0/d    1740.3    1282.6                  3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 951ol/d e   936.7/e   998.3                  1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                                 118.0/jdie  i8s.27    444.9                   272.8                    423.0
RURAL                                4479./d_,e  5213.37e  1742.0                  1745.2                   3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..       16.9
HObSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    *           5.1
URBAN                                                5.7/f
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          2.5/f
RURAL                                    ..                                            ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..         26.4/f
URBAN                                    * **
RURAL                                     ..          ..
*Most recent estimate is US$478 (1981 Atlas Methodology; official exchange rate)



- 22 -
ANNEX I
SUDAN - SoCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                      Page  2
SUDAN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
I(OST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 25.0         38.0       50.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                  35.0        46.0       58.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                14.0        29.0       42.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          7.0       16.0                  10.0                    16.2
HALE                   5.0        10.0       20.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0       11.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   3.0           1.4/l      3.0/g,h               8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0         47.0       35.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          20.0         17.0       19.0                  25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         13.1        14.7/i    20.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4          1.9         ..                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0         79.0      82.8                   32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.8          3.2        5.9                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   4.0           ..        1.6                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            ..        0.7                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3731.6       4623.1    5223.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    9.6         10.2      10.7                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              85.7         82.0      65.8                   80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.2          7.8       6.7                    8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.2         32.8       31.9                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                 59.3         58.2       56.2                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                                6.4          6.8        7.0                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.5                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/tj         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.17i        49.2/k
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0           5.17        *
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.9          14.57        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     137.0                 136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      80.0                   84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0                   99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..     100.0                   61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION HELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 39.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..      85.0                   68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averagem for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-73 average;  /d 1962;  /e Government hospital establiahments;  /f 1965;  /I Beginning 1970, the
duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;  /h Includes programs of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and
Sport; /1i 1966; Li 1963, Omdurman -urban;' /k 1967-68.
May, 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX I
DZPIXTXMS Y MCAL MIATMSPage  3
11oose,  Although the dat.a.h. draw  ftw    eat -. gnealY Jadgad the seat aatharitativa  and wa1ilai. it chwold alew  ha  totd that tbsp    y wow ha iUtew-
satiowaly tono-ble howuna  of thefloch of etooIduadid daftietion   and oe.-Pt.  -aa  by different onatisa to to11eotteg the data.  Tb. data  w,ae
thta .  cfel to da...oiho ordet   f r    tiu.  indicaa  wed. oa.aat.ieorteia  -aJor dtfferan.a b -ts   -oaatrie..
The   afooacegrupe  we (> te tn. oooty  toop of the nabjeot notr  Ad  (2) *   -oeor  groep with e.Anht higher ewaag  lor-  thaw  th. totry  wop
of te ehjo  contr  (eaep  tot: "Capital SurPloa Oil  oPorltre" Swop whew. "Kiddie le-n   Norh Adoibe ta                         iddle  tact  icohna  bo-w-- of etw...gor
oofoutro Ieffiwitl:al.  ttttttre.fardc   grou  duo. the  vtg.  are 1% poplato  wlght-d atitbtto  no    for eoob ldinato  and sh'a  only t
lAWD ASA  (thoutued eq he.                                                                             Popolatio otr H-itooa  gad - total, ubar  end rura I               ooaio    tt
totaI - Total norfeos are  ta_et   an    rund    edwte.                                                  ra, an  roya) divided by t'tte  r.wac-ive obar.of boeptoa1 hod.
Iantoa     tainueo  arcultua  niaua tmooalyo  peeaetl                                           ynibin Ow pb.lir and privat  geaulnd ny-irhited.heitlad we-
for orpe, paturca  norba  and   itohot gordene  or to lIe  fa11e; 1971 dete..              bblloooaoe                   opti   w   ecicseepwaaoyea  e
byatiac   oeph o-a  fetabliebse-o  prottdtg priotipolly rueo
iMP P   CAPITA 'US!.' - 1ff? per tet.actno   ororeoerkat pri-a.,cal-                                     dilcreaeto oldad.   oRal. hoe.ritale. howeer  toole.  hau
ltuloo   by non   rooerivo nathd na World hank Atlaa  (1977-79 baciJ)   690,                          and    dIra atr.1  ot pata-el  etaffad by a phyatota  (bow  byIa
1970, and 1979 data                                                                                    eaicel.. eict_ot  oroo   blwf,er)oho    fe   opain    too
detioo end proide a tLwuted teage of ed.dloe failitioia. For e..ote-
EilY  dgOffTIOe PER CAPITA - A.au   oenoo   f  ontilseg-vl                                               otoa-l  -Porpne  o-ba   henpitole  1et1ide  MHOe Pri-oiPalgaa-oa  h.epitale,
anM Pg"ta    patrla ,  -utre1 gac aid bydro-, oula   n   ethwa   lc                                     d roralh. boptoig toa ..    r ratel h-nPItala and  ediraltad net..rotty
ttiiitpl to kilo;ra_   of coal  qoJval-to  peo capita; 1960, 1970  an  0979                            r- -tre    SPipetilia     heaPitoala   awe.ooldd ool  uadr tta.I
data.                                                                                                Adn.init  oar..  Moerital Sad  - Tota  ounhuv. of adianiow. tv or dterhergws
fits boapItole divided by the aade of bod..
Tota  powoltiot  MdYea  ltbuea l- A       .it uy 1; 0960, 0970, end 1979               090
dota.                                                                     koso~~~~~~~~~~~A-ne Si.. of Hauuhold lw-eoe   pe    uahold   - total, urbao. and total-
lirat  oaittio  iareotof  oinI  -toto  f obt otoa  ppleio                                 Ar hoeboj ld        _1oict  of a grou        eitdae   h   baeitlgqutd
dlfawao dfiitiw.  f uba  aroa  ay  ffct  usprabhiyofdta                                anohi   aoani.Ahad r viodgsr wa  o ay   00ih  teinad  Ow
ao    onta;1960, 1907, cod 1979 data,                                                      the ea-holdo  r               eiitclporponoc.
PooaltP.      o    oocAarn    aa    f wroao                                                                                             ontota.  or b...  n   ua       vrg    n
Poeeaolo  to  ear  i  Ci - Corav  PoPtititl    yjct-  oa   re baoed iv 1980                  he   g0preaee per ron  A  i  _rbav,and rawai oocplnd co-vn -foa
tota  pop1olaooby age and .eo and thair mortality and ferlilit  rats..                            deLtg,   r-p-ttvny.  Dwail ega ecIod                 _ o-poreseen   et--trc  and
Prol_rtiie painter. fir soilftoy retoe coeprice ofh obra  lwvtlecsu_                              =aotupled Pane.
ito  life eopc-aiy et bir.th        caagtu    cotoryt pe  capita br                             Ace  to tlen-wicitv   trta  if dellaa     - total. ora..ad wuoai -
-tare  tor  tarolity  o-o  aao hvtIre.,  -lavl   -aiog declioa  iv                                 of  _otei, u-h.o, e.d rur dwIliogcrnerln
fartlitiyocodio   toioos          Ievt  n  pun  f_nlypattg  pert. creauc.C
Lobh conatr  Ic that t..elgoad oee of theci elo.  -osiiattoo   of  o-tlity                    fDUCATICOt
and  f ..otIlty trntde for projortoi.  porpeesa.                                                Adjusted Eoroil1eo   Rtaoe
Staioarytitial     _ - I. etatittary  PoyIaiioo 1her  In 00 growt  aitra                      Pavaho      oal   oeedfni  -ioe a,sl  and f-nie
the bitth rote 05 equl to the death rate, eod alo th.g..roa   e                                       owimt  of-,    al  age. at Oo pwit.ay icv- neprctge of rooto
oaatoto.Thteic achieve.d owly afte  fertilitly cas.deli`-o riat   acoo-gepyitiot;uosliy iacIude   childot aged 6-li
-boapani  1e-w  of tott it teroPduiit  rtor, whew  -.th getratito                              year. hut adjoce    fo,ih.eolsgb   of prsr    dcto;for
of amotrepeow   itelt  aucly.The cetiotary populatit  t.  n                                cotric       ih oiweleueto    it ct say er                        lid  poro-t
eeoie= ed i  tiw  boeia of obt1proj-otd thernotarltica  if ob   otar                                  tce atw   puils  r  beloriv above oht official achool ago.
it the yert 2000, aid tbw rote of decltoe of faroilioy rntoorpaa-irrdavehul-ttl,sl   ndf                                                        .l   - CsIrd  a above; encondary
-t  lsel                                                                                              duaiorqorna               ea   ou   naaofap-vd pLisar   ioeituctiw;
Yer  taioay wi.cule tioo ie reached - The yta  what etatiotary pouatoprovide. gwearal  votionol. to teatbar oretla   ietutto                                              for pupiol
ete  he  oer- chd.                                                                                    ucuoly of 12 to 17 y-ar  of oga; ruceapied-t.  ro s.oe geaovily
Pewno.he.- Kd-earpupiettopar equare kilostar (100 hoctarsel of                             Vouaotonltrlia   wwoa   fctnao    Vittiiotal1 ioctitotoo
toa    ra   96i, 1970nd 1979 dat.                                                             Muid    ehta,idsra,o   te  Progas  whih opoteia ad
Par n. ho  antiolou .l ad - C-puo-d a  ehov  fur aaricultore  land                              etyotadeparomoat  of nacowdary ta-ttulot..
oty;16.197   ndi7dta.                                                                            Puwtl-tnoch.r relc   ti nao.n   aodc       oa   -tdeate  iro11ad  ito
Pit- atrvAa  itwot=r   pret  -Chihdreo  (0-lu  y-rar). wohi-a    15-                                     Prtat  an-d ..t.owduwy levwa divided byosertO nohe  I.thob
6A yeas_JanMrttrad  (6  panc         -ndve) a. perc...iegec of nid-ynow  popt-                         -oreodiog  lenele.
* atto;lOhi  1970  . ad  9197  dat.                                                                 Aduit literacy rat  ia-c-i  - Literate adult. Cab le to vtad a ad trOve)
Pc,uetlu  uroih hte Iorteol -tota   - Wtuolgrithoete   of total aid-                       eaay .rtstag   ofu total ado,i ptuaii gd 15 yera nod over.
yea  puilaita  ir 150-0,196-70  ed 1970-79.
Pooati  Io 'bht  'nREat  -urbat -           1Aao  go"tb rat.  of other pyt-             CY91ltPl0t
foit   ow  19 50-60, l90-0.nod) 1970-709.                                                    PaenerCoa(prtbuadouatl-Paegr care  -osriae soot
Crd   itblt  (aP  boeol- Oaul lhow  birth. per itholutd of sod-year                            carantioglc   tha  eight    rete  eaclodwaablaca  hae..nd
Ypatt;1960  190. and 1070 dat.-eitroai e
Atuda Doath gat   Ir bthe,-d)l -,Aao  det.pr thoun...de of etd-yaa-ui                                         tivere (,rw  th ....d orltul-All typo. ofrravefo  radio
,poytloc; 1!960,iTa id179 data                                                                     bwodet  togoa  poblict pwr thounondofpoaio;Irde ut
Gwo.e Oaarod-uti- hato-Avevoe. itbar of daughter,      inilil berI                                     lowodroiwr   iotarw   andIvIyear. abdo rgletraiot  of radir
hot --csa  reroductlva ptIod tt eti  ena         pea       ..wew.  aa-t    cwtfer-                   eetnw     Ow e.ffort; dtat  for  -acat  year  say otteconr-rblaetc
tiioyrraieoc        l   f o-ya       avrg. adivg it 1960. 1970               L n   97.ma  coolt iin  a,bliihd PIceaog
if lbiprtb-cutrldare ooevatploe   of ioua  fasly PIlatolog proeree.                                   gaora1 public par  tboe  d             p"ltc;noueeolrto    VccIvaw
Fatly PatotoeOaera  retrea  of  Lartdnool      arait..tsa.ed1                                           totriec aid to year. ah.. ogiatratio tf .7 cte  a   tefc
o  f chol-boro0a   (l-u         Iyar) whts  blrtbcrcldavc                  to                weaae    itolio (e :rthouaatd ttltlt      i,     the air.egecit-
poblicottot davo-d pri-arily to tanordiaggvoo  te.It ia co..eidawed
FOOg to   VIORTOTO                                                                                       to ha  'daily' if it appear. at laaa.o  tour tI-anaA.:.k
tode   ofPn roductioo  -w  Capita  (1969-71"t00) -lodao ofco  cap -lie   a...al                     Cue.- Atuui Atdnoceo                PCatta - car ..ea- ue    o   he  u-b-r of
pwnd-coiooo   1.01_ foo ,d         rosaiir.Prdtiooecldaeeead  end teed eo                            rtikottel Nduringtnb  Syear' including adelet... to drove-to ctieac
ia 00 oalawdar Yea    aoa    C       dit.iarvrprisr    od .          (... euaraead   bila acite..
itetn   o-ta hihat  dbl   i  ctaof.hc. ou ryLt eg  cfe   n
no elorgw  yrdow   yrtc_ night.  1961-65., 1970, nod 190dt.                                 oa   abrr-e-""nndl-ioueciY activ   ceoeoo.  -itudiot
Pa Palaerlo of culrn    wer          f                                                          -ur-et)-Coptdtreand foroa andtuoespoyed boo  oldo    oaeve    tdoe    t.
eteogyoqoiralet of t_ food .It. noylevlblahl  ito cutty per capita                                cooariOt pipolatton of all aoai.  Drfititi... it vaincoo'trier
per day.  Availoblw  etyplia. coepriat doneeto   pcodocrilo. iportn I..a                          -o.c.eparble; 1960.  90ad17    aa
eaporce, and cheog    ito a-rk.  Mac enple ea_rlude onla1 feed, .oeda.                          Pwae   aretI-  eal  abrfrce .  rcatM    ittllbrt a
q-ntltiesea   in t  food price..itt. and I....a to dietribotito. haioirw-                       Adolculture  cooo.             La8bortc   i  trto   orew,hoingao
aatea.wtiletad by PAO bear.d on phyaiolugica1 toa. tow  -osa  acti-                        taogeprcterof tonal lao  frce; 19600  1970 end 1979 deta.
vty adh heath co...tdrviogrrirrnno) -eperatore, body teighti. ego                              (odaty   recrot  - Labor forc  ti nitiog   rrtvucio  etfaooo 1960
and ant dia,ir.ihion of p-rlatlon. and oI-onio  lY F..r..nt foroet  at.                            ed o cttit'y,  ate  a Ad oaa             --rataca-of inallbor  .tore;190
boc -od 1aa; 1901-no, 1970, and 1977 daco.                                                   1970 ad  9197  dora.
Pe   niaeol   fpctila .,ordd - Prutaio co.toto  of y.c capita                          P-ritiotriocq     o   opet      oa.sl,  n   rur-Pcnieioo
tot eopply of food yer day.  ret snyply of fond 0. defioed at above   ha-                         aciiyrt.eaceoa                   ctota, sale, aid fssa1e lcrfocea
aloac    f 60 erea  of  rtotl yPoenpar day en  20 gran  of avi-I ecd                        1960, 1970, cod 1979 data.  The. are bea.d on lILD   paricipatito  rune.
yul. poteo.  f  hich 10 greaa aho.ld bwovnu  prti.Thenetod-                                  cr  erte   f-anautor  of th   ppuat"r  ond I.oa tine tonod.A
ai-1a pro wit e             S.vawwg  for ob. orld,  rupteod by  PI. tohw   hr                   cveclcoeo    ai       aloo   ooeirudr1   i   tedoo
"Irrd Pond SurvY; 190I-65, 197  on  1971 dota                                                     to ihc1o  labor foc.-
I.. canto orotaic eply true a-i-a  and ala. - Prot.io  eupply of foodde
rived fri . onle. aid po1a.. It grana par day. 1961-i6, 197 0 aol 1977 dMi.                   INCOME DItSTRIbTon
agegouv-;   aer,noctldtoithioa        gru..o;tforeedteoio-u-                                oowtrlheliyreo.-rt-bYpran,oy re  blpe-h-
toiee data dari-n  froa 100w  teblee; I96.' 190ad 1979 dat,                                         of hooehbIdw..-    OP -t     -rt20.dpc.    0P---
HEAL.TiP0100W  TouTI  MMlp
Life toEctucot  10t            ar    - Averoaw  nb-a  of  ..rar  of lit. rwshingTeflotawaiaa    r   rynyrrsn    ners  fonrvlol
et birth; 1960. 1970 ond 1979 data.                                                                  ond- ahoold.. It-iorcyratwd   ld   cu.ad.ratleaotinv
Onfart MfovolitoYhateliar_t  ....eadl - Aivuol death. of itfarte Aider OOe yaeo                      timedA           iote  roen   noaioi10   c   tia   ohvo    ua 
of age y      ,o ....nad hico birih..                                                               Aaleporyitaw an                    0etha   tot)vibli   hc       lia
.ctet.      ..Wae   ocrto  cuw uotMl  toal  uran  and  rura                                          Ab..1.nutrtiona ly aaut  dirpt   serhlov-odrqiret  i   o
her of pa-pir  1toto.  ubn                                       ...oa. ihreeohh    ce. to  af       effncdtil.1Yd -tdi,P....  .1..f.   rqi---t   I
ootwcuplyCioludn teard=      ecfawwaeceor totreatd but  -trot i-ota                        tatisat-d halaftiv   Pvwrny Ivoo-   Lao-l (Thy tw  -aoita  -ocan nod r.val1
wareatchstla   fyc  proect dbhrebola, epriog   ond  -uiayella                               ua   oat.          iry itoi-  levelis owe-third of avraga parc pt
.r.t..of their raep-ti-n   oplcin . Iaul                   waPoblic                           yareraJ incisepof theoory    ra   ea   edrcdOo  I   ua
r  daaooabltuc daeatcul    -epl  tha  cIa thcuani 200    orelart-o  ch..r hoebo                   and  roya    d- ,-Pcro hat-   - of oiaio   uh oiandgruol ohrrb.         bilt
dovni o    ~einccihleyr...occntblc,              frI ayi   wolt   l
of ttaioaI'lcl i-  P.o.o.an.one.  -ocrte diapc    a  ni_olw
rthe colectIo   and dlupocal  ~,ho     -   toh... tcetet,o   oaactetccccm                                                                                   oa   aeYceo
le .ooalalt.                                                                                                                                         toy hAl.t
Porlaionoarybcioat   PpulatIon dividod by norbat of ecacticina phyai-
oio q.....liftwd frstee-d i_l school etuvica..itYlava.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977/78 -                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.            %                                      1972/73-1977/78
GDP at Market Prices            8,279.1            100                                             8.0
Gross Domestic Investment    1,188.1              14.4                                            11.4
Gross National Saving             645.1            7.8                                            -2.6
Current Account Balance           542.0            6.5                                          -30.6
Exports of Goods, NFS             701.0            8.5                                            -2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           1,437.0           17.4                                             9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added 2                    Labor Force 2                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         %               Mln.                               US $       I (of average)
Agriculture                      1,681          41.2             3.25            68.7                517              59.9
Industry                           657         16.1              0.30             6.3              2,190            253.8
Services                         1,745         42.7              1.18            24.9              1,479             171.4
Total/Average              4,083         100.0              4.73          100.0                 863            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1979/80
(LSd. Mln.)                       % of GDP -
Current Receipts                                   643                              15.4
Current Expenditure                                672                              16.1
Current Surplus                                    -29                              -0.7
Capital Expenditures 4/                            164                               4.4
External Assistance (net)                          238                               5.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                      1974/75        1975/76       1976/77        1977/78       1978/79        1979/80
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                                   292.5          369.6         530.0          669.1         877.0         1,047.5
Bank Credit to Central Government              212.8          300.8         466.0          593.5         913.7         1,130.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector and              296.7          393.3         432.5          490.8         652.9           814.3
Parastatals
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)                  21.1           1.6           17.9          16.7           37.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    37.6           41.4          54.9           27.4          54.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   48.4           32.6          10.0           13.5          33.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly
of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available.
Not applicable.
EA2DB
April, 1981



- 25  -                                     ANNEX  I
Pate 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78-79/80)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80                                         US $ Mln.      %
(Millions US $)
Exports Goods, NFS                708        701       699        833            Cotton                        315.7       56.7
Imports Goods, NFS              1,192     1,437      1,345      1,611            Gum Arabic                     38.3        6.9
Resource GAP                     -486      -736       -646       -779            Groundnuts                     39.6        7.2
Sesame                         41.3       7.5
Interest MLT Debt (net)           -51       -51        -69        -49            Other                         122.5       21.7
Other Factor Payments (net)        --        --         --         --               Total                      557.4      100.0
Transfers                         173        221       240        209
Current Balance                  -362      -566       -475       -619 1/
Public Grants                      11         24        17         84            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.           324       210        405        532
Public MIT Loans, amort.          -57       -66        -55        -90                                                US $ Mln.
Total Public, net                 267       144        350        442            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        2,100.2 2
Increase in Arrears  345  325  309  93         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               ..
Increase in Arrears               345       325        309                       Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets          -2        76         -6         48 /a         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
(- increase) 
Errors and Omissions b/          -259        -3       -195        -48            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         35.0 d/Il
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year) c/       23        22         27         33            Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE e/                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 31, 1981) (Million US $):
Annual Averages    End Period                                                        IBRD          IDA
1977     1978   Aug 79  Sep 79       Outstanding and Disbursed                     128.5         196.7
Official:                                                  Undisbursed                                     30.7         326.3
LSd 1 = US$         2.872    2.662   2.500   2.000       Outstanding ic. Undisbursed                   159.2         523.0
Effective:
LSd 1 = US ~    2.500    2.225   2.000            -
Parallel Market:
LSd 1 = US$            --        --      --   1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Based on IMF statistics (line 1. d of IFS) which accounts for the variations between this line and the reserves
implicit from the proceeding line.
d/ Based on amounts owed, not what was actually paid.
e/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/subsidy
charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established for transactions
other than a limited category including government purchase and a few "essential" items.
Not available.
EA2DB
April, 1981
1/ Current account deficit for 1980/81 is estimated at US$750 million.
2/ Current estimate: (for June 1981) US$3,200 million.
3/ Current estimate: (for June 1981) 40 percent.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.      Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and nine Credits fully disbursed:                 127.2 121.7
Credit 364-1    1975    Sudan        Rahad Irrigation               20.0      5.1
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                   10.0      4.8
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                       23.0      1.0
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance           4.0       0.7
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                    9.0       8.4
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation        20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan       Savannah Development           17.0     16.5
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                    8.0       3.0
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV               12.0    -        7.2
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                          22.0       4.4
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing           25.0      23.7
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III         16.0     12.8
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research          15.0     12.1
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                    41.0      31.1
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project         15.0      11.2
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                     65.0      42.3
Credit 1006      1980    Sudan       Third Power Project           65.0      58.2
Credit 1022      1980    Sudan      New Halfa Rehab. Project       40.0      39.8
Credit 1118      1981    Sudan 1/3/ Blue Nile Pump Rehab. Proj.  32.0        32.0
Credit 1119      1981    Sudan 1/3/ White Nile Pump Rehab. Proj. 35.0        35.0
Credit 1153      1981    Sudan 1/3/ Second Technical Assistance
Project                       6.0       6.0
Total                                                  159.2 589.7
of which repaid                                      84.2   7.3
Total now outstanding                                   75.0 582.4
Amount sold                                  5.8
of which repaid                            5.8          -     -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                             75.0 582.4
Total                                                   27.2 350.9    375.3
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   IDA 6 Credits, US Dollar equivalent of SDR's at time of negotiations.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                           Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                   1.9    0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                         8.7    1.3      10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.                 11.2    1.2      12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.              6.7    1.4       8.1
1980        Promotional Cement Company                    -     0.2      0.2
Total gross commitments                    28.5    4.4      32.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                    6.9    0.3       7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC          21.6    4.1      25.7
Total undisbursed by IFC                    1.2    0.5       1.7
C. STATUS OF PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
As of September 30, 1981
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$42.0 million Credit of March 30,
and           1973 and US$20.0 million Supplemental Credit of July 11, 1975;
364-2          Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973 and November 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced production in 1977 with cotton
grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total project). Major project
civil works have now been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with
154,000 feddans under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3
300,000 feddans. Project implementation has been delayed because of continuing
managerial, financial and logistical problems; cotton yields also have been
disappointing and there is a severe shortage of labor for harvesting crops. A
final work program has been agreed in order to complete project activities by
the Closing Date.
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The second project is some 18 months behind the original 1975
appraisal schedule. The delay is due to the lack of construction material,
transportation difficulties and weakness in project management. Some change
in project scope has been necessary in surmounting these difficulties.
Physical execution of the project is improving, with the award of the bulk of
the construction contracts, although transportation remains a constraint.
Close monitoring of the project is to continue.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program. However, delays in award of contracts for civil works at
the Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and the Juba diesel
station are likely to delay commissioning of various components of the Project
by about two years. The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at
appraisal and the Government has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the
OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has
increased its electricity tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs
by 200 percent. Before the closing date, June 30, 1981, the Association
entered into special commitments. Completion of arrangements involved were
subsequently delayed. Upon his completion the Credit account will be closed
and the undisbursed amount cancelled.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
All funds are fully committed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 643   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Loan No. 1287T   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion; in addition, the project has encountered serious financial problems.
Tenders for construction of the Wau and Malakal airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate and retendering was initiated, based on
revised design and bills of quantities. However, the new tenders also came in
at levels greater than available financing. With the increased costs the
project was no longer justified and actual implementation was deferred. At
expiry of the closing dates the Loan and Credit accounts will be closed and
remaining balances cancelled.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, cannot be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. At consolidated project has
been approved and Credit 718 will be cancelled upon effectiveness of
the new project.
Credit No. 727   Fourth Railway Project: US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and        and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Loan No. 1467T   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well. Rapidly rising
prices, along with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the
project, may necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is
being provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European
Development Fund.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Project works are well underway.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, as well as light locomotives.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The second Mechanized Farming project (Credit 311) was closed on
December 30, 1980 and an undisbursed balance of US$3.6 million cancelled on
March 5, 1981. The objectives of the third project are to (a) help present
users of mechanized farming methods become more productive, and (b) support
programs designed to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders.
These objectives will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the
extension activities of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of
adaptive trials and related research, access road building, importation of
spare parts for the mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and
strengthening of the MFC. The project became effective eight months later
than expected. Late appointment of staff and delayed procurement will prevent
full implementation of agronomy and farm machinery trials during the 1980/81
season. A draft study of MFC-s future functions is being discussed with
Government.
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have been
agreed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The first highway project (Credit 331) was closed on June 30, 1980.
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and construction work has started. Technical assistance to the
Southern Region is under way.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Crcdit 476), is assisting the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1980;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million is sup-
plementing the program. This program is progressing well and the second
tranche has been approved for release by senior management. All funds have
been fully committed and studies have been completed.
Credit No. 1006 Third Power Project: US$65.0 Million Credit of April 17,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand through
1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1022 New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$40 million
Credit of May 15, 1980; Effective Date: February 18, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1118 Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$32.0 million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase cotton
export earnings by means of stepped-up production in existing irrigation
schemes. The project would, over a five-year period, rehabilitate the
Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC) and provide
agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton cultivation in the rest of the
BNAC area. The African Development Fund is confinancing.
Credit No. 1119 White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$35.0 million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the irrigated subsector. It is designed to support the Govern-
ment's Export Action Program. The White Nile project would help achieve this
objective by rehabilitating, over five-years, some 174 ongoing pump schemes
along the White Nile south of Khartoum.
Credit No. 1153-SU Second Technical Assistance Project; US$6.0 Million Credit
of July 2, 1981; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: March 1,
1985
The second technical assistance project builds on the first but is
significantly different in that in addition to assistance for project prepara-
tion it provides a wider range of assistance for project implementation and
macroeconomic management. Specifically, it provides assistance for improving
accountancy training, for improved tendering and procurement operations in
the central government, for debt management and national accounts.



- 33 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
SECOND PORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:  Nineteen months
(b)  Preparation by:                   SPC/Consultants
(c) Initial Discussions with
Association:                     March 1979
(d)  First Bank Mission:              March 1979
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:    October 1980
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:      January 1982
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  August 10, 1982
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
On January 23, 1981 the Association agreed to a Project Preparation
advance of US$250,000 to provide for the foreign costs of consultancy
services to assist SPC in the preparation of bid documents, tender and
bid evaluation for works financed under the Credit.
III. Special Conditions
Special Conditions for effectiveness additional to those stipulated
in the General Conditions would be:
(a) execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 49).
(b) appointment of consultants, instructors and experts (para. 51).
Other special conditions include:
(a) Until completion of the proposed Project no additional investments
directly related to expansion of Sudan's port capacity would be
undertaken unless the Association would, prior to the making of
the investment concerned, be provided with evidence, satisfactory
to the Association, showing that the investment would be economi-
cally and financially justified (para. 44);
(b) Project monitoring and evaluation including specific operational
targets (para. 51);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Financial targets for SPC (para. 59);
(d) Consultation with the Association regarding SPC investments,
other than those included in the Project, exceeding
LSd 1 million per annum (para. 60);
(e) Limitation on SPCrs debt (para. 60).



IBRD 13901R1
SUDAN                          24~                                 28~                                       v/art                                                     a~c4, W
SUDAN                                  ~A RA B   R EP U BLIC
MAIN                                                              0    EGY     
TRANSPORTATION                                                             ---                   ---------r4
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                     V/
00                                                      I~~~~~L                                                                       \A 
Paved Roads JUnder Constuct on                                                                             <N
Roads and Traks, Air Seasn..I 
Roads and Tr-kn, Dry Seaso                          I                                                                                             .cH' 
......Roads B-,g Studin.edsr,a                                                                                                                                                              ao
Gran1 St-odord                    C   H A   D                                                                EJId                             A b-
Regrnal B-Ldaresj,                                                                                                                                 I'
P P.                                                                                              -__                  4--a ---'~a'
Rakidig and Planed irrgatio  Schemes                                                             KHARTOUM  PRINCIPALITY',
SoNrton. C                                                                                                                  Krari
    Noionl Capital                      Kt                                                                            A     N
~  Prosanca CapiraisA   R    F  U                                           R    K      R       DO F
0 T..o,, and VlIloges\                     Ju&AC,a1,C
inte ..ationa  B-.,aa--                                  css,A b,~T L                                                                                   A.i    'r      'ts
(  ran-.                 r                                        %V  ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E T>~   .-
12v                                           1t aI                                                     I     a                            -(                                                    s~2'-
J~~~~~~~
N       /  ~~ ENTRAL
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
icc  a '  sir  4<  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~---t' ~ ~ ~      ~          ~         J
0, rnaiarr  Q                            a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N4
rrarna  nArrn Fon R""CA'4Z A                                             I     
K    <-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Trsnsaa,riar,anndc,raran  CE N T R A L        ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        ~        G         A N   D     






BR D 13O81R2
AOA~, _r~Pf gFr    - _  _   oi 9 8  /fkSf O4Wf tfhBpqPfXdbf WlrMMW>fXlf ShAffVCASSf#f f R/lf fl<UtVffxedED                                                                   MARCM H 1Q2
JrL -   8-  -fr -hhf fIllthvoOtaWhf71,!5hUChfS Thk hfogunvVAnf fSuCAN
r   3 \\Pfdf{T c  OWA0s ,hli 000 000040000 $laivlthffJattliSMa/$ffbSf                            SECOND PORT PROJECT -  PORT SUDAN
KXA0TJ NiD                                                                           : EXISTING: LAYUTAND;  PROPOSED  IMPROVEMENTS
--                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSE-O IAPROVEMEt-NTS
S U D A NJ                                          I  400  200 3f  400 5fO                   SPC C.0roIled Lond Aref 
)   v h,;    <  b- >,_)                          0001a4E7 125 D$    ff {-bf7CHRiOrA  Arfst   rea                  rr2 of EAirr A ns.o r e   a  n
0T,,,                                                         ,,,, ,t - '                                                     ,  Z--roa' -Groir Sdo
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tp" ems   _ne  F=m  P=r   =Cc
F,o 50,>40 O'
0 F,7 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 10~-
I-''-''''''i
'fflg''dWB   ''   $0,:0



