Document of
The World Bank                                                   v, a
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3454-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND PORT PROJECT
March 30, 1982
I  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Sudanese Pounds  (fSd.)
US$1                       ] ES 0.9
ESd.1               =      US$1.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                          2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (tonne)       =             2,205 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MFEP     -      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOT      -     Ministry of Transport and Communications
RBPC     -     Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
RTC      -      River Transport Corporation
SPC      -     Sea Ports Corporation
SRC      -      Sudan Railways Corporation
VHF      -     Very High Frequency
UHF      -     Ultra High Frequency
PBX      -     Private Branch Exchange
HWWL     -      High Winter Water Level
SLWL     -      Summer Low Water Level
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR 1/
July 1   -   June 30
1/   Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending June 30
in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
SECOND PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.          THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................................                   1
A.  Economic Background .............................                   1
B.  The Transport Sector ............................                  1
C.  Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination    .....               4
D. Past Bank Group Transport Sector Operations
in Sudan .........          ..............................       6
II.         THE SEA PORTS CORPORATION ...........................                   7
A.  Port Facilities  .................................                 7
B.  Organization, Management and Staff ....              ..........    10
C.  Training .........           ...............................      12
D.  Port Operations and Planning .....               ...............    13
E.  The First Port Project ..........................                 14
F.  Past and Present Traffic ........................    16
G.  Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance ...........                 17
III.        THE PROJECT ..........           ...............................      17
A.  Port Investment Program .........................                 17
B.  General Description .............................                 19
C.  Details of the Project ..........................                 20
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan ....             ...........    23
E.  Procurement and Disbursement  .....              ...............    25
F.  Project Implementation ..........................                 27
G.  Project Monitoring  ..............................                29
H.  Environmental Impact  ............................                31
I.  Employment Impact ...............................                 31
IV.         ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .................................                31
A.  Future Traffic ..................................                 31
B.  Timing of Port Suakin ...........................    34
C.  Project Benefits and Their Distribution .... .....    34
D.  Economic Costs of the Project .....              ..............    37
E.  Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis  .... ....    38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.     FINANCIAL EVALUATION ................................   40
A.  General   ..................................       40
B.    Past  Performance   ................................  41
C.    Financial  Forecasts   .............................  42
D.  Projected Operating Statements ....   ..............   44
E.    Projected  Cash  Flows  ............................  44
F.  Projected Balance Sheets .....    ...................   46
G. Future Financial Objectives ..............          46
H.  Impact of Inflation on SPC's Finances .... .......   47
I. Financial Internal Rate of Return .48
TABLES
1.  Operating Statements 1975-1980
2.  Balance Sheets 1975-1980
3.  Statements of Retained Earnings and Capital Reserve 1975-1980
4.  Projected Operating Statements 1981-1987
5.  Projected Cash Flow 1981-1987
6.  Projected Balance Sheets 1981-1987
7.  Projected Statements of Retained Earnings and
Capital Reserve 1981-1987
8.  Financial Internal Rate of Return
VI.     RECOMMENDATIONS ...............               .         48
ANNEX
1. Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in
Sudan
2.  Documents Available in Project File.
MAPS
1.  Sudan Main Transportation Infrastructure - IBRD 13901Rl
2.  Sudan Existing Layout and Proposed Improvements - IBRD 13081R2
This report has been prepared by Messrs. K. Ewing (Senior Engineer), M. Dick
(Senior Economist) and B. Rollins (Senior Financial Analyst) on the basis of
consultants- studies listed in Annex 2 and their findings during an appraisal
mission to Sudan in October/November 1980.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Background
1.01      Sudan, the largest country on the African continent, is essentially
an enormous plain, with a large uninhabited desert in the northern third
of the country and tropical forests and savannahs in the South. It is tra-
versed from South to North by the Nile River system (see Map), close to which
lives a large part of the country s 17.9 million population which is growing
at a rate of 2.7% p.a. Per capita GNP is estimated at about US$478 (1981
World Bank Atlas methodology).
1.02      Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for over 40% of GDP
and almost all export earnings. Economic activity is largely concentrated
within the fertile and well-irrigated 400 km stretch south and east of
Khartoum. More than half the population depends for its livelihood directly
on agriculture, and a substantial amount of farm production is exported
through Port Sudan, the only deep-water port.
1.03      The recent economic performance has not been good.  Various factors
are responsible for this, including inadequate product prices, limited absorp-
tive capacity and inadequate infrastructure support. This has resulted in
agricultural exports stagnating and, with increasing petroleum import costs,
contributed to a sharp widening of the balance of payments deficit. To arrest
the nation's economic deterioration and to put the country back onto a path of
sustained growth, the Government prepared a three-year development program
FY1979-1981 which concentrated on the completion of ongoing projects and
investments emphasizing rapid growth of export revenues. This thrust has been
continued in the second program (FY1981-1983) that has been recently finalized.
1.04      One encouraging feature has been the recent discovery of petroleum
in commercial quantities near Bentiu (south-western Sudan). Exploration is
accelerating in that part of the country, and in the Sudanese waters of the Red
Sea. Domestic production of petroleum might before long meet a substantial
proportion of the country s requirements. This could improve the balance-of-
payments situation and overall economic prospects.
B. The Transport Sector
General
1.05      Sudan's transport network is inadequate for even the existing level
of demand, due, inter alia, to difficult physical conditions and sub-sectoral
management problems. Provision of inexpensive, efficient and reliable surface
transport is particularly difficult in view of Sudan's harsh climate, and the
lack of suitable construction materials in many areas. The sparse rail and



road systems, which must cross hot, arid deserts in the north, northeast and
central zones and skirt the swamps in the south, are oriented for imports and
exports through Port Sudan. The Nile contributes very little to transport
relative to its apparent potential. In the north it is repeatedly interrupted
by unnavigable rapids, while in the south the White Nile meanders through the
Sudd, a vast swamp with continually shifting channels.
1.06      The main focus of investment in recent years has been in railways,
highways and ports. This has been reflected in the Bank's transport sector
operations.  Four railway projects and two highway projects have addressed
pressing needs in these sub-sectors. The First Port Project (Credit 781-SU)
identified and addressed the priority needs of Port Sudan. An unsuccessful
attempt has been made to come to grips with the aviation sub-sector. Attention
is now also being focussed on identifying the appropriate role and investment
requirements for river transport, particularly between the south and Khartoum.
The various pre-investment and investment studies have been largely ad hoc in
nature examining the needs of the individual sub-sector rather than those of
the sector as a whole. However, a reasonable degree of consistency in the
subsectoral approach has been achieved because these studies have been con-
ducted under the general guidance of the Ministries of Transport (MOT) and
National Planning (MNP) in line with the institutional structure described in
paras. 1.20 and 1.21.
1.07      The principal transport corridor is the Khartoum-Port Sudan route
where, until recently, the railway had a virtual monopoly, supplemented only
by a dirt road and by a pipeline for white oil products which began operation
in 1977. A paved road via Kassala opened in 1980. The main traffic route of
Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) is between Port Sudan, Atbara and Khartoum
(787 km), which at present carries 60% of all SRC freight.
Railways
1.08      Although the railway system of about 4,800 km of 1.067 m gauge,
single line track is quite extensive, it fails to meet the demands put upon
it. Freight traffic has declined in recent years from a peak of 2.8 billion
tonne-km in 1971 to 1.5 billion tonne-km in 1981, while passenger traffic has
fluctuated between 1.0 and 1.3 million passenger-km. The principal role of
the Railways is to transport agricultural products including cotton to Port
Sudan for export, and to move imports, increasingly capital goods and
construction materials, from Port Sudan to Khartoum and other parts of the
country. The corporation handles about one third of total import and export
traffic. SRC's role in internal freight movements has been relatively minor
at about 9% of the 1980 total. However, with Government's planned expansion
of the agricultural sector, concentrated on the south and west, the rail route
passing through this area (Port Sudan, Haiya, Kassala, Sennar, Khartoum)
should become increasingly important in the future for the transport of
agricultural production. It is expected that freight traffic on this route
will reach over 40% of SRC-s total, by 1983. There are branch lines north to
Karima and Wadi Halfa, west to Nyala, and south to Wau and Damazin.



1.09      Under the Fourth Railway Project the availability of locomotives has
increased but the wagon turnaround time has risen from 18.0 days in 1977 to
22.3 days in 1981. This is partly due to an imbalance of traffic as between
imports and exports, with import tonnage being approximately three times
greater than exports. This has resulted in either wagons returning empty to
Port Sudan or waiting inland for a back-haul. Due to the high availability of
the locomotives and their current low utilization there is no longer an
intrinsic shortage of locomotive power as was the case during recent years.
SRC has recently organized a marketing division to sell its services and
attract traffic, lost to the road hauliers, back to rail transport.
Highways
1.10      The road system of Sudan is short, though quite extensively used.
With a total road length of about 216,000 km (excluding town roads), road
density is only 7 km per 1,000 km or 1 km per 1,000 persons, the lowest in
Eastern Africa. Moreover there are only about 1,500 km of bitumen paved roads
outside the towns plus 3,000 km of gravel roads mainly in the south. Most
of the unpaved roads are essentially tracks, passable only by trucks or
four-wheel drive vehicles. The tracks in the clay plains, which cover most of
the country s eastern half, are closed completely for three to four months
during the wet season; this is especially significant since most of the
present and near-term future economic activity is in this area.
1.11      There is an extensive road improvement program under way, both in
the clay plains and in the south, where there is an urgent need for road
rehabilitation following two decades of neglect during and after the Civil
War. About 1,600 kin of the southern roads are presently being rehabilitated
with assistance from Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, Federal Republic of
Germany, IDA and UNDP. Additionally, a Feeder Roads Study was undertaken in
1979 with financing under a joint IDA-Kuwait Fund Technical Assistance Project,
to identify priorities for provision of feeder roads.
1.12      With development of the highway system, the vehicle fleet has
doubled in the last decade to about 110,000 vehicles of which 31,000 are
trucks and 52,000 passenger cars. The capacity of the trucking fleet, mainly
private, is generally fully utilized, especially on the Port Sudan - Khartoum
route.
Ports and Inland Waterways
1.13      The port system is discussed in Chapter III - The Project.
1.14      River transport is used on the Kosti-Malakal-Juba (1,450 km) and the
Karima-Dongola (290 km) sections of the Nile system. The Kosti-Juba section
is by far the most important, accounting for 70% of river traffic and serves
as the major surface transport link between southern and central Sudan. Even
so, it falls a long way short of meeting the south's freight transport require-
ments, handling only 80,000 tons per year, 90% of which flows from north to



- 4 -
south. Use of river transport is constrained by physical conditions, such as
shallow water during the 3-4 low-water months, a huge swamp in the south,
water hyacinth encroachment, inadequate berthing and cargo handling facil-
ities and by the inefficient services of the River Transport Corporation (RTC)
for traffic other than oil products and food which receive priority. RTC's
fleet has been expanded in recent years with assistance from Norway and the
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). Low fleet utilization, attributable to
poor maintenance, is compounded by low load factors which are largely the                     e
result of the directional imbalance of traffic and the necessity to underload
on shallow river sections. RTC has had a monopoly of river transport services,
but the Southern Region recently established a feeder river transport service,
and there is a small but growing volume of private river transport.
Civil Aviation
1.15      Of Sudan's 20 airports, only Khartoum is genuinely all-weather.
Khartoum is also the only airport with electronic landing aids, which are
being upgraded with new equipment provided under a loan from the United
Kingdom. Air traffic control and navigational communications within Sudan are
limited, and much of the existing equipment is obsolete. Sudan's airports are
the responsibility of the Civil Aviation Department which, although part of
the Ministry of Defence functions as a civilian government department.
1.16      Air traffic in Sudan has grown relatively rapidly over the past
four years despite seriously constrained domestic services. The number of
domestic air passengers has more than doubled since 1969, the principal routes
being betwen Khartoum and Port Sudan, Malakal, El Obeid and Juba. Sudan
Airways Corporation services all 20 domestic airports, with Khartoum as the
hub, and also provides international services to neighboring African countries,
the Middle East and Europe.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
Policy
1.17      Sudan has long been considered as having considerable potential
for agricultural development. While the pace at which the increase envisaged
iin production and export will materialize is uncertain, traffic in agricultural
and other exports can be expected to recover from recent low levels and
imports of consumer and capital goods can be expected to continue to increase
though more slowly than in recent years. This will require increased reliabi-
lity, operational efficiency and capacity in the transport system, particularly
in certain key corridors. In addition, the establishment of a policy of
regionalization of administration has necessitated the improvement of transport
links between the regional capitals and Khartoum.



- 5 -
1.18       The need for improved transport is recognized in the Government's
three-year investment program FY1981-FY1983. Of a total of -Sd 1,600 million
investment, iSd 475 million is allocated to transport and communications, with
over half of this earmarked for completion of ongoing projects. While correctly
oriented in general, the investment program has yet to address adequately the
problem of communications between the south and the rest of the country. The
distances are vast and thus intermodal co-ordination will have to be analyzed
in order to prevent possible duplication and resource misallocation. A river
transport study, EEC-financed and due for completion in 1982, should give some
guidance on investment priorities.
1.19      As well as recognizing the needs for physical investment in the
sector, the bodies in charge of the various transport sub-sectors have a need
for extensive training at all levels, ranging from fully professional staff to
"shop-floor" supervisors and operators.  The need for training is particularly
high in view of the powerful attraction of salaries and wages offered to
qualified personnel in Arab countries and the difficulties this causes in
recruiting and retaining local staff. In the short-term at least this means
that technical assistance requirements to fill gaps are often greater than
would otherwise be the case.
Planning and Coordination
1.20      The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOT) has responsibility
for inter-modal planning within the transport sector. However, the ministry
appears to have little direct authority, only a small budget and no direct
access to the main public sector corporations (SPC, SRC, Sudan Airways,
Telecommunications, Buses). These organizations report directly to the
Minister but he himself has only a small staff and it is unclear how either he
or his staff could be expected to undertake inter-modal planning effectively.
1.21      In practice, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP),
within its overall planning function, exercises the closest scrutiny, within
the Government, of transport sector investment activity through its transport
section. In this it is assisted by a planning team, under a UNDP financed
project executed by the Bank, which has been in Khartoum about six years. The
public sector corporations have to accord with the general policy, plan
priority and budget guidelines of the National Development Budget. While this
conceptually requires investment proposals to be economically justified, in
practice, provided the corporations can satisfy MFEP that they possess (i) the
self-financing capacity; (ii) absorptive capacity, their investment proposals
are usually accepted. Thus the level of investment in the sector is probably
determined more by the overall availability of funds than by a systematic
ordering of priorities. However, as major investment proposals inevitably
attract widespread attention, both within and outside government circles, it
is probable that the system functions reasonably well, except in cases when
political considerations are of over-riding importance. The Ministry of
Planning has recently been merged with the Ministry of Finance to form the
new Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, hence some improvement in
planning and financial control may be expected.



1.22        Until recently, modal coordination has not been an issue because
most transport services have been complementary. However, three factors have
recently tended to change this. First, the sharp petroleum price increases
of recent years have not been fully reflected in gasoline and diesel fuel
prices, which introduces a bias in favor of trucking services. Second, a
paved road has been opened between Port Sudan and Khartoum which reduces road
transit time by two-thirds and can be expected to lead to significant diver-
sion of traffic from rail to road. The resulting distribution of traffic
might not be the most economic, in view of the petroleum price distortion
noted above. Third, transport sector investment has tended to be concentrated
on the north and west of Sudan where the possible modes were either road or
rail, but rarely both. However, in the future the substantial southern
investment requirements will need to be addressed and there is some danger of
competitive road and river investment being undertaken. Investment and tariff
policies will require careful scrutiny to ensure efficient utilization of both
modes.
1.23      The steps being taken to address these problems are essentially
through increasingly close scrutiny of national development plans to ensure
they are realistic, taking into consideration resource availability, with the
consequent elimination of projects, in transport and elsewhere, which are not
demonstrably high priority at this time. In parallel with this, the investment
plans of the corporations are coming under increasingly close scrutiny at the
sub-sectoral level to ensure they are economically justified.
D. Past Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Sudan
1.24       The Bank Group has been assisting in the development of all modern
transportation modes in Sudan as well as in slowly improving transport planning,
since the First Railway Loan in 1958. In general, physical implementation of
projects in the transport sector has been satisfactory, although there have
been considerable delays due to (a) complicated procurement, bid evaluation
and contract award procedures; (b) cost increases which have necessitated
revisions in project scope; and (c) insufficient response to some invitations
to bid. The First Domestic Aviation Project has suffered from the above
problems to the extent that the IDA financed portion of the project is no
longer viable. Part of the project, the works at the airports of Port Sudan
and Juba, are expected to be carried out as planned and financed by the Saudi
Fund and the EEC. The general lessons to be learned are that project implemen-
tation takes longer than expected in Sudan, benefits are generally slow to
materialize, and prediction of costs is difficult, particularly in more remote
areas.
1.25      The proposed project will be the Bank Group s second direct lending
operation with the Sudan Sea Ports Corporation (SPC). The First Port Project
(Credit 781-SU-1978) for US$22.0 million and three previous railway projects
(Loan 212-SU-1958; Loan 440-SU - 1965 and Credit 457-SU - 1974) included
provisions for the modernization and improvement of port facilities adapted,
as is the proposed project, to changing traffic and operational patterns.
(Until 1974 the operation of the Seaport was under the control of the SRC.)
There have been other Bank Group financed transport operations in Sudan. The



- 7 -
First Highway Project (Credit 331-SU US$7.0 million), approved in 1971, and
the Second Highway Project approved in 1979 (Credit 882-SU - US$41.0 million)
included transport sector institutional improvements and road construction
maintnenance and design. The Domestic Aviation Project approved in 1976 (Loan
1287-T-SU and Credit 643-SU for US$9.0 million and US$20.0 million respectively)
provided financing toward the development of four domestic airports; a Technical
Assistance Credit, also approved in 1976, (Credit 614-SU for US$4.0 million)
included preinvestment work in transportation; while the Fourth Railway
Project approved in 1977 (Credit 727-SU, Loan 1467T-SU -US$8.0 million and
12.0 million respectively) concentrated on upgrading the level of efficiency
of SRC operations and provision of additions to motive power and rolling
stock.
II. THE SEA PORTS CORPORATION
A. Port Facilities
2.01      Port Sudan is Sudan-s deep-water port, located on an inlet from the
Red Sea, and adjoins the City of Port Sudan (Map 1).
2.02      The main general cargo handling quays are situated on the east side
of the harbor comprising 11 berths (Map 2). These were constructed following
the natural deep water contours and thus do not present one continuous
quay but, four non-aligned quay walls. The South Quays comprise four berths
on the southern side of the port near the harbor entrance. Of these two
berths have deep water alongside, while the other two have been adapted for
deep water vessels by stand-off fender pontoons. In addition there is a
small explosives jetty, a shallow draft tug berth, a small oil bunker-barge
berth and a limited, shallow-draft pontoon berth (table 2.1).
2.03      Port Sudan has few facilities for handling bulk cargoes.  Grain is
handled in bulk over berth 15 or in bags at other berths. Molasses is exported
over berth 5A which has a pipeline connected to storage tanks just outside the
port customs area. Edible oils are exported over Berths 6 to 9 via pipelines
from storage tanks located within the customs area. Live animals may be
handled at all general cargo berths and loaded by platform slings. Under the
First Port Project provision was made for improving the deep water berth 16 to
facilitate the handling of RO-RO vessels with stern ramps.  In addition, at
berths 17-18, provision was made for the handling of containers.
2.04      The operational mean low summer water depth for these berths fall
into two groups: 8.7 m and those equal to or more than 10.7 m (except for
berth 5A which is 10.2 m (table 2.1). The mean tidal range at Port Sudan is
only 0.1 m and the maximum seasonal range is about 0.85 m (HWWL - SLWL). The
harbor floor consists generally of soft coral and sand overlain with silt.
2.05      Ancillary facilities at Port Sudan include storage tanks for
petroleum products, edible oils and molasses; a 50,000 tonne capacity grain
storage faciliiy, operated by the Agricultural Bank, situated at berth 15;
about 50,000 m of covered storage in sheds and warehouses within the



-8-
Table 2.1.
Port Facilities
Port Sudan
Type/                          Water          Effective
Berths         Construction    Length             Depth 2/       Capacity -       Remarks
-------meters-------            No. Berths
Main Ouays
1, 2, 3, 4,    Gravity             810        1 thru 5-8.6                       General cargo,
5, 5A           block wall                    5A -  10.0               5         5A, molasses
6 - 7           Gravity                                                          General cargo &
block wall        365            10.7                 2         edible oil
8 - 9       8 - Concrete, sheet                                                   General cargo &
pile wall;        775            10.7                 2         edible oils
9 - Gravity block
11              Gravity block       98           8.7 1/              1/2         General cargo
wall
South Quays
15              Gravity block                                                    Bulk grain (silo)
wall              205            10.7                 1         and general cargo
16              Gravity block    108
wall                             10.7                1/2        General cargo, Ro-Ro
17-18           Gravity block                                                    General cargo, con-
wall               278           11.4 1/              1         tainers and bulk oil
Total                      2,218                                12
Other
Explosives Jetty                    25            4.0                            West of Berth 18
Tug Berth                          200            2.4 1/                         City side -
opposite Berth 11
Pontoon Berth                       93             2.0                           North of Berth 11
Bunker barge berth                  10            10.0                           East of Berth 17
1/   Depths outside fender pontoons.
2/   Below mean low summer water level.



-9-
Table 2.2
SUDAN
Marine and Cargo Handling Plant
Selected List - Port Sudan
Existing Plant   Plant Additions
Marine Plant                       Capacity        December 1980            1981
Tugs - Harbor                      500 to                10                  1
1200 HP
Water Barge                          400 tons             1
Grab Dredger                        5 1/2 tons            1
Pontoons                           75-300 tons           25
Launches                            Various              20
Cargo Handling Plant
Quay Cranes                             5 tons           22
3-5 tons           9
1-5 tons           1
Storage Area Cranes                  3-15 tons            3
Mobile Cranes                        3-15 tons           13                 10
30 tons           -                  8
50 tons                              2
75 tons           1                  -
Fork Lift Trucks                        2 tons           12                  -
3 tons          21                 42
10 tons           5                 15
25 tons           -                  3
35 tons                              1
Tractors                            6,000 lbs             -                14
12,000 lbs            8                  9
Trailers                                15 tons          30                 54
20 tons                            20
40 tons                            16
Scotch Derrick                          35 tons                             1
Trucks                                                   76
Fire Fighting Vehicles                                                       2
April 1981



- 10 -
port customs zone with similar capacity in government or priv~te hands
outside the customs zoni; paved open storage of about 80,000 m on the
main quays and 40,000 m 2on the south quays together with unpaved storage
areas of about 142,000 m and a dockyard with four slipways of 50 to 600
tonnes capacity. Transit sheds are provided on the Main Quays and are con-
sidered suitable and adequate, with some modifications, for foreseeable
requirements. Electrically driven, rail mounted quay cranes are available for
loading and off-loading ships at the Main Quays and these are adequate for
general cargo requirements (Table 2.2). New cargo handling equipment
maintenance shops are being constructed under the First Port Project. The
operating problem areas in the port have not been so much in the lack of space
or equipment but in the use of space available, the use of available equipment
and the maintenance thereof insofar as actual cargo handling has been concerned.
2.06      The port now has ten tugs, two of which were new in 1980 and financed
by FRG. The other eight are serviceable with considerable rehabilitation work
being carried out under the technical assistance program included in the First
Port Project. An additional inner harbor work boat financed from Credit 781-SU
was delivered in 1981 for pollution control work. Berthing and unberthing
are dependent upon the use of tugs due to the limited manoeuvring space
available.
2.07      Port Sudan was developed almost exclusively as a rail served port.
Both quays, including sheds and the silo, have rail networks linked to the
national system. Under the First Port Project the rail system on the Main
Quays has been extensively revised and simplified in part to allow the
unimpeded use of the extensive fleet of mobile cargo handling equipment
(financed in part by ODA and the Credit), to improve cargo storage areas, to
remove redundant trackage, and to improve access from the highway system.
B. Organization, Management and Staff
2.08       Formerly a department of the Sudan Railways Corporation, the Sea
Ports Corporation was incorporated as an autonomous corporation in 1974 under
the Ministry of Defence to administer Sudanese sea ports. In 1977 it was
transferred to the Ministry of Transport. The Board of Directors of SPC is
headed by a full-time Chairman, appointed by Presidential Order, who is based
in the Khartoum headquarters office. The Board is responsible for the overall
planning, direction and control of SPC, and for liaison with Government and
other agencies both in Sudan and outside. The Managing Director at Port
Sudan is SPC-s chief operations officer. The Board delegates to him such of
its functions and powers as it deems necessary to enable him to transact the
day-to-day business of the corporation, including matters concerning service
of employees, their pay, privileges and allowances. In practice the pay of
employees is subject to Government policy. Reporting directly to the Managing
Director are five senior executives -- the Directors of Land Operations,
Marine Operations, Engineering, Finance and Personnel. It is anticipated that
the structure will be changed as shown on the attached chart (page 11).



SUDAN
S.P.C. ORGANIZATION CHART
PROPOSED STRUCTURE
Ctliiitrlldll  
Chairenan's Oftice                                       NeS Pro                                   ject
Maiiagiiig~ii Disectfr
Managing Dirt:ctor                        _.
Wotid san  r s a-
|  Personnel  | |   Ienal    l l    Fire  | |  Security  | |   0th rdli                                  iii Elecrlc~
VVolit Idbank - 23081



- 12 -
2.09      Under the First Port Project, technical assistance was provided
to strengthen critical areas in port operations, procurement, stores, finance,
training workshop practice and equipment maintenance. Additional strengthen-
ing of the organization is required particularly in the operations, finance,
training, workshop and maintenance areas.
2.10      SPC has experienced  difficulty in recruiting and retaining quali-
fied staff in the supervisory and technical areas. Among the reasons for this
are the high salaries offered to technical staff in Saudi Arabia (and other
Gulf States), the high cost of living in Port Sudan and the feeling of isola-
tion from Khartoum.
2.11      SPC employs  approximately 4,000 workers on a permanent basis of
which about 1,050 are employed on cargo handling. Some 3,700 workers are
hired on a daily basis for cargo handling and stevedoring from the local labor
office and co-operative society. Several hundred more workers are employed in
related activities outside the port area - warehousing, transport, etc. The
port is the principal employer in Port Sudan. Its staff size reflects its
labor intensive cargo handling methods and the severe climatic conditions
under which the port has to operate.
C. Training
2.12      Before separation from SRC in 1974, employees at Port Sudan were
included in SRC's training program. Following separation, almost the only
training provided was on-the-job, although a number of senior staff were
sent on overseas study tours. At the time of appraisal of the First Port
Project it was evident that three critical areas had to be addressed. First,
services previously supplied by SRC were no longer available. These included
accounting, financial management, procurement and equipment maintenance.
Second, the management and techniques of port operations, both physical and
procedural, were undergoing change to meet modern shipping requirements and,
third, the increase in use of mechanical cargo handling equipment, provided
under the Third Railway Project and the First Port Project, required much
higher orders of equipment operation and maintenance skills.
2.13      The First Port Project included a training facility financed by SPC,
while the financing of training equipment, overseas training and the services
of training advisers and key instructors was provided from the Credit and the
Kuwait Fund. The training facility has been completed, a comprehensive
training program organized, key personnel have been trained overseas and
active training classes have been organized in Port Sudan. Particular atten-
tion has been given to training instructors in various fields so that a large
percentage of the basic training requirements can be met in Port Sudan. The
First Port Project also provided technical assistance in: (a) stores manage-
ment and organization, (b) financial management and accounting systems,
(c) operations, maintenance management and planning, (d) training programs
and training of training personnel, and, (e) direct technical assistance in
equipment maintenance. To date more than 500 personnel have undergone skill



- 13 -
training in classes in Port Sudan. These courses vary from two weeks to six
months and are given in Arabic. The curricula and programs were drawn up by
technical assistance training specialists financed under the First Port
Project. The trainers received special instruction overseas in training
methods as part of the overseas training program financed from the First Port
Project. The overseas training program to date has included scholarships,
courses financed by the Government of Sudan and training financed from Credit
781 in accordance with a training program drawn up by the specialists. About
40 man months of training has been provided in manufacturers' shops, in part,
under the ODA financed equipment supply portion of the First Port Project and
other scholarships.  The SPC is financing extended training in engineering,
economics, marine law and management information systems. About 200 man-months
are involved, with about 110 man-months of overseas training, directly financed
from the First Port Project for port management, maintenance, operations and
training courses plus about 25 man-months of port engineering training in
consultants offices.
D. Port Operations and Planning
2.14       The labor-intensive cargo handling operations in Port Sudan have
remained largely unchanged for decades. The port has been poorly equipped
to handle cargo that could not be directly loaded to, or unloaded from,
waiting transport. Available mechanized equipment such as fork lift trucks,
tractors and trailers have been used minimally, in part due to poor mainten-
ance, improper operation and a lack of skilled supervisors. General cargo has
been unloaded principally by quay cranes using slings. Pallets were not
available.
2.15      The general cargo handling rates have been generally very low with
considerable cargo damage. Bagged import handling rates averaged about 18
tonnes per gross appliance hour over the period 1965-75 while other general
cargo imports averaged 6 tonnes.
2.16      The First Port Project recognized the need to improve productivity
and a substantial investment program in cargo handling equipment, pallet
making equipment, and technical assistance was accordingly initiated. The
general cargo handling rate is now about 12 tonnes per gross appliance hour
while the bagged handling rate is in the range of 20 tonnes per hour. It is
anticipated that a handling rate of at least 15 tonnes per hour will be
reached for general cargo when the mechanized equipment is fully deployed, and
further increases may be expected with additional experience when all improve-
ments are completed.
2.17      The grain berth (berth 15) utilizes a travelling ship loader/unloader
with two pneumatic suction arms. Handling rates for import grain is nominally
120 tonnes per hour but actual handling rates are much lower, in the order of
80 tonnes per hour. The result is high demurrage charges on grain shipments.



- 14 -
2.18      The port operates throughout the year except for religious and
some national holidays. It works two regular shifts per day with some third
shift work. Due to an inadequate supply of labor, a disinclination towards
night work (most shed, warehouses and most commercial operations are closed
after dark for security reasons) and poor lighting, third shift operations are
not expected to increase in the near future.
2.19      For the past several years there has been a chronic problem concern-
ing clearance of import cargoes from both the port and the Port Sudan area.
This has been, in part, due to custom clearance procedures, insufficient rail
capacity to move cargo to the interior and low storage charges. While rail
transport still presents a problem, the completion of the new paved highway
from Port Sudan to Khartoum has brought about a marked increase in trucking
operations. This, together with increased storage charges instituted by SPC,
has resulted in private cargo shipments being cleared through the port much
more rapidly. However, government cargo still moves relatively slowly.
2.20      A major source of improvement to conventional general cargo opera-
tions results from the First Port Project. Part of this has already been
experienced; non-petroleum traffic has increased by 25% since FY1976
with a slight decrease in congestion. Further productivity improvements can
be expected and even with a best forecast of non-bulk traffic increasing by
18% by FY1984, berth occupancy will be reduced from the present highly
congested level of over 90% to 80-85%.
E.   The First Port Project
2.21      The Suez Canal re-opened in 1975 after 8 years closure, and in
anticipation of the increase in traffic this development, and the growth of
the Sudanese economy, would generate, the Association financed (under Credit
457-SU) consultant services to determine Port Sudan investment requirements.
At about the same time the Sudanese Government requested FRG to finance a
feasibility study of new port development at Suakin, about 60 km south of Port
Sudan. Both studies were completed in 1977, and on the basis of the traffic
forecasts and the development of handling methods envisaged, on which there
was a large measure of agreement, the Association concluded that even with
investment in Port Sudan, Suakin construction would be justified, with opera-
tion by 1984.
2.22      The First Port Project investment strategy was devised with the
above timetable in mind. Accordingly the project comprised:
(a) improvements to cargo handling areas - levelling, paving
lighting etc.;
(b) a bow-stern roll-on/roll-off cargo (RO-RO) ramp at berth 16;
(c) dredging of the existing oil berth to increase depth alongside from
11.4 m to 13.5 m.;



- 15 -
(d) new transit sheds;
(e) mechanical workshops and training facilities;
(f) increased handling capacity of the existing grain silo;
(g) improved piping for handling molasses and edible oils;
(h) a livestock holding pen;
(i) cargo handling equipment;
(j) facility maintenance and repair equipment;
(k) pollution control and emergency services equipment;
(1) marine equipment (pilot boat, harbour craft);
(m) training;
(n) technical assistance;
(o) consultant services for design and construction.
2.23      The results of the civil works bids were much higher than estimated.
Accordingly, the items below were deferred to a subsequent phase of development
and, in part, are included in the proposed second project:
(a) cargo handling area improvements were reduced in scope
and the top asphalt wearing course deleted on the
pavement areas retained in the contract;
(b) improvements to the grain silo;
(c) improvements to the molasses and edible oil lines (in part);
(d) training facility (This has been built by SPC using local
financing.  Training equipment was financed under Credit 781-SU).
2.24      From the above description it can be seen that the First Port
Project addressed the most pressing requirements at that time, namely exten-
sive paving of cargo handling areas and the provision of cargo handling
equipment. The proposed second project extends this program to cater more
fully for developments since the First Project appraisal, particularly the
rapidly increasing container and RO-RO traffic, and to reinstate the important
grain silo modifications. The two projects are thus highly complementary and
consistent with a dynamic approach to the development of Port Sudan.



- ] f -
F.   Past and Present Traffic
2.25      The main characteristic of traffic since FY 1976, the base date
for the First Port Project, is that exports have increased less and imports
more, than forecast. Excluding petroleum, total traffic increased by nearly
600,000 tonnes to 2.6 million tonnes between FY 1976 and FY 1981, virtually
all of the increase being imports. This contrasts with the forecast 3.0
million tonnes of dry traffic in FY 1981, with exports expected to increase
by 1.1 million tonnes and imports to decrease slightly.
Sudan Port Traffic
(000 metric tons)
First Port
Project Forecast
FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80         FY81      FY81
Exports                    1,278  1,389  1,094  1,005  1,259        1,103      2,431
- of which dry bulk        620    743    465    430    665          633     1,635
- of which petroleum       320    348    354    203    205          171        120
Imports                    2,248  2,375  2,506  2,528  2,822        2,880     2,566
- of which petroleum   1,156  1,195  1,218  1,224  1,275          1,252     1,650
- of which grain
sugar fertilizers      520    380    320    440    713          561        300
Total                      3,526  3,764  3,600  3,533  4,082        3,983      4,997
2.26     The main reason for the variation from forecast lies in the perform-
ance of the Sudanese economy, with expectations regarding the pace of expan-
sion of the agricultural sector not being realized. This has resulted in both
exports and import substitution failing to meet targets; in particular ground-
nut exports, affected by drought conditions, have declined rather than expanded
and sugar, expected to become an export crop, still fails to meet domestic
demand and consequently significant imports continue.
2.27      The traffic composition has had an effect on the shipping pattern.
Imports tend to be in larger ships than exports, and the total number of
ships has declined, from 1,200 to 1,100 with the average NRT increasing from
about 3,200 tons to 4,100 tons (the FY 1976 average was exceptionally low;
3,800 tons was recorded in FY 1975). This has probably assisted in improving
productivity; despite the 23% increase in traffic, the average berth occupancy
has declined slightly to a, still high, level of about 90%. A further factor,
expected to be of increasing importance in the future, has been the advent of
semi-container and RO-RO services, which accounted for about 60,000 tonnes of
traffic in FY 1981. The introduction of these services has been facilitated
by the elimination of congestion at Jeddah and the consequent establishment of
systematic triangular unitized services from European ports to Jeddah and Port
Sudan.



- 17 -
G. Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance
2.28      The Managing Director is required by the Sea Ports Corporation
Act, 1974, to submit to the Board, by May 31 of each year, a draft operating
budget and a capital budget. The Board is required to submit to the Minister,
by September 30 of each year, the final budgets together with the annual
accounts for the past year. Commencing with the 1980 fiscal year, SPC in
addition prepares a four-year forecast.
2.29      Initially, the accounting system used by SPC was similar, if not
identical, to that used by its predecessor--The Sudan Railways Corporation.
However, under the technical assistance component of the First Port Project,
it has been improved and coded in such a manner as to allow for changes, when
required, to accounting machines or a computer application. The system is
sound and is quite adequate for the needs of SPC. A fixed asset register has
been completed and the assets so recorded have been revalued at current values.
The annual accounts are prepared using an acceptable commercial format. SPC
is self-insured with minor exceptions. This is an accepted practice.
2.30      Under the Auditor General Chambers Act, 1970, SPC's accounts are
audited by the Auditor General who is responsible to the President in Council.
This arrangement is acceptable to the Association.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Port Investment Program
3.01      The Government of Sudan has assigned high priority to expanding
and improving the operational efficiency of the country-s port capacity. SPC
does not have the capability to undertake long-term port planning and the
engineering or other necessary studies. The Bank Group financed, under Credit
457-SU (Third Railway Project) consultants services to examine the need and
alternatives for expanding Sudan's port capacity to the year 2000. The
consultants also reviewed SPC-s organization and operations with a view to
improving their effectiveness and efficiency. The port development study by
Livesey & Henderson/Coopers and Lybrand (L & H) was finalized in 1977, and the
First Port Project was based upon it. At about the same time, the Government
commissioned consultants Rhein-Ruhr (RRI) (financed by FRG) to undertake a
feasibility study of a new port development near Suakin, about 60 km south of
Port Sudan. The RRI study was also completed in 1977 and recommended that
development at Port Sudan be limited, and a new Port Suakin be constructed as
soon as possible. After reviewing both studies, the Association concluded, at
the time of appraisal of the First Port Project, that Port Sudan capacity
would be fully utilized by late 1984, and that consequently construction of
Port Suakin with a view to its operation by 1984 was timely and consistent
with the First Port Project.



- 18 -
3.02      That view is no longer valid as, since then, i) traffir at Port
Sudan has grown more slowly than expected; ii) productivity at Port Sudan has
improved as a result of the First Port Project and increasing unitization of
general cargo traffic.
3.03      Provision was made in the First Port Project to carry out the
detailed engineering and design of elements for the further improvement to
Port Sudan in the event that Port Suakin construction was dela)ed. In general,
the design was in line with the recommendations contained in tile L&H feasibil-
ity study of 1977. The First Port Project and the proposed Second Port
Project are essentially complementary and form the first two phases of a
unified plan.
3.04      SPC and the appraisal mission determined that the proposed S'C:L.
port project should concentrate on high priority items. These include i) a
comprehensive program to ensure facilities that will allow an adequate RO-RO
and container handling operation, ii) together with reinstating the grain silo
upgrading, the completion of the edible oil and molasses lines and portions of
the pavement wearing courses deferred from the first project, and iii) essen-
tial improvements to the port internal communication system including the
ability to communicate with ships in the immediate vicinity of Port Sudan.
Improvements to the port electrical distribution system were also considered
and priority works have been included in the proposed project.
3.05      RRI updated their feasibility study in August 1980.  The revised
version still advocates Port Suakin construction primarily as a container port
but the justification is narrowly based upon the assumption that Port Sudan
capacity is limited i) by the total number of berths available; ii) more
importantly, by the limited scope for the rapidly growing unitized traffic.
Both assumptions are disputable, and a strong case can be made for the argument
that as the productivity of a unitized berth is much higher than that of a
break-bulk general cargo berth, the conversion of break-bulk berths to unitized
use as unitized traffic develops will enable Port Sudan's capacity to keep
pace with traffic demand for the foreseeable future.
3.06      Port Suakin investment costs have now been estimated at DM 848
million 1/ (US$380 million) in 1981 prices and a large element of these costs
(break-waters in particular) are fixed and independent of traffic. Such an
investment would represent a massive commitment of foreign exchange resources.
There is no evidence presently available to justify such a massive commitment
of foreign exchange resources unless the cost to Sudan is negligible.
1/   KfW Preappraisal Report.



- 19 -
Accordingly, agreement was obtained during negotiations, until completion of
the Project, the Borrower shall not undertake any other investment directly
related to the expansion of Sudan's port capacity unless the Association shall
have been provided, prior to making the investment concerned, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such investment is economically and financially
justified.
B. General Description
3.07      The proposed project consists of:
A.   Improvements to berths 17/18 which will also allow improved con-
tainer handling.
B.   Improvement of berth 16 to handle RO-RO ships and for some
container handling.
C.   Improvements to the grain silo at berth 15 to increase throughput
capacity.
D.   Improvement to existing paved areas by laying an asphaltic cement
concrete top wearing course.
E.   Improvements to the telephone and radio communication system within
the port and its approachep.
F.   Improvements to the electrical power system within the port.
G.   Modifications to the edible oils and molasses pipelines to increase
the throughput rate.
H.   Provision of about 150 man months of technical assistance in port
operations, financial management, accounting, equipment maintenance
and training in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Association, together with overseas training of selected SPC
personnel.
I.   Consultant services to provide:
(i) engineering and supervision services with respect to the
proposed works; and
(ii) engineering and supervision services with respect to the
construction of the SPC Headquarters building designed
under the First Port Project.
J.   Construction of a Headquarters Building in Port Sudan.



- 20 -
C. Details of Project Elements
Evaluation of Project Elements
3.08      The principal thrust of the project is to improve the productivity
of the present port. This will be accomplished through the following measures:
(a) Container Handling Facility
Conversion of berths 17/18 to deep water berths, suitable for handling con-
tainers (or other cargo if required) and complete with the appropriate paved
area by:
(i) the extension of berths 17/18 to seaward including
demolition, earth works, piling, concrete works, fenders,
bollards and related works;
(ii) modifications to the tanker terminal equipment on berth 17/18; and
(iii) extension of paved area behind berths 17/18 including drainage, modi-
fications to existing rail lines, modifications to fire and water
mains, electrical modifications for lighting the area and related
works; (included in the paving works described below).
The replacement of the existing berthing pontoons by a concrete deck is
necessary for the efficient operation of the container terminal and for the
use of this berth for export cargo. It will also enable vessels to handle cargo
between ship and shore using ship's gear.
(b) Completion of Berth 16
With the First Port Project development, berth 16 is capable of accomodating
RO-RO vessels using an end ramp only but not lift-on/lift-off or angle ramp
vessels. Berth completion will enable container or general cargo vessels to
be serviced on the occasions berths 17/18 are occupied by petroleum tankers.
A concrete deck on piles will be provided to complete this berth. Combined
lift-on/lift-off, RO-RO operations can then be utilized for several ships
using Port Sudan, thus improving berth occupancy times. Improvement of berth
16 will include demolition, earth works, steel piles, block work, quay wall,
concrete deck, concrete works, fenders, fittings and related works.
(c)    Grain Silo Improvements
Delays to grain vessels discharging at berth 15 result at present in con-
siderable demurrage charges due to inadequacies of the present unloading
equipment. The proposed project will provide an additional ship unloader and
extension of the conveyor system which, together with other mechanical and
electrical modifications will increase the nominal ship unloading rate from
about 120 tonnes per hour to 320 tonnes per hour. The modifications will
allow ships up to 50,000 DWT partly laden to be handled by extending the



- 21 -
unloader travel distance along the berth, and increasing boom outreach and
motions. Daily unloading rates at the silo have steadily deteriorated in
recent years and have been below 1,000 tonnes per day. A substantial tonnage
of imported wheat has to be bagged on the ship prior to discharge with damage,
loss and use of other berths. Thus the new handling equipment will save
demurrage, reduce loss and free other berths.
(d) Edible Oil and Molasses Lines
Part of the 200 mm diameter edible oil pipe line has been laid under paved
areas constructed during the First Port Project. To reduce ship-waiting time
and lower costs through higher pumping rates the proposed project will provide
for completion of the edible oil pipeline and a new 600 mm molasses pipe.
Edible oil ships are normally "double banked" so additional berth space will
not be freed. Molasses ships are put alongside so that faster loading will
free some berth space.
(e) Communications
The present telephone and VHF/UFH communications systems are inadequate. The
proposed project will include improvements to the telephone system (PBX) and
limited VHF/UHF equipment provided for ship to shore and mobile communications
whithin the port area for operational and maintenance use, utilizing existing
available channels.
(f)  Power Supply System
The availability and reliability of electrical power within the port has been
deteriorating steadily and interruptions in service are now seriously affecting
cargo handling operations particularly with respect to the rail mounted quay
cranes and the grain silo. Lighting for night operations, equipment maintenance
stations, the dockyard, and other operational areas are also affected.
The inadequacy of the main town power supply, the condition of the
port's rectifiers switchgear and transformers plus the unbalanced loading on
the port distribution system each contribute to the problem.
The project will include new D.C. rectifiers for the quay cranes
plus D.C. stand-by generators, A.C. stand-by generators for the grain silo
and the main quays and south quays together with transformers and other
related equipment and wiring to provide stand-by power, improve load balancing
on each phase of the system, improve the power factor and reduce ship waiting
time.
(g) Paving
In order to handle the forecast increase in container traffic (table 4.1), an
additional area must be prepared on the landside of Berths 17/18. This
involves relaying some rail track, grading and paving some 3.8 hectares,
together with related works such as drainage and lighting. Paving some



- 22 -
general cargo areas was included in the First Port Project but due to lack of
financing the top wearing surface was deleted from the paving contract. In
order to avoid undue maintenance costs and premature resurfacing, the proposed
project will include financing for laying the top wearing course in priority
areas.
(h) Technical Assistance and Training
Although the results to date of training under the First Port Project have
been encouraging, considerable work remains to be done. The proposed project
will include refresher training for instructors, and selected overseas training
for special requirements but the main thrust will be in organizing the training
school program, evaluating and refining the curricula and developing procedures
for evaluating results. A very high priority is being given to operation and
maintenance of port equipment on the technical side and to supervisory and
management skills on the administrative side. With the introduction of new
mechanized cargo handling systems operating at higher efficiency and produc-
tivity levels, it is necessary to continue technical assistance in selected
areas in order to ensure implementation of planned programs and to achieve the
desired efficiency and productivity levels. The proposed project, therefore,
includes continued technical aasistance in the fields of port operations,
financial management and accounting systems, equipment maintenance, the
management and implementation of equipment maintenance programs and in training.
(i) Engineering and Supervision
Project design was financed under the First Port Project. The consulting
services required to handle the final preparation of bid documents, invita-
tion and evaluation of bids, up to and including award of contract, are being
financed from a Project Preparation Facility approved January 23, 1981
(141-SU). Consultants will supervise the implementation of the project and
be responsible for the provision of technical assistance personnel and as
necessary undertake preparatory work on the prospective third project. The
same consultants who carried out the feasibility studies, design and supervi-
sion of the First Port Project and design of the proposed second port project,
Livesey & Henderson and Associates of the United Kingdom are expected to
provide the consultant and technical assistance services required for the
second port project. Their services have been satisfactory and the firm is
acceptable to the Association.
(j) Headquarters Building
SPC management and operational personnel in Port Sudan are dispersed around
the port in various over-crowded and poorly laid-out old buildings. Part of
the design work included in the First Port Project was for a new headquarters
building. Current planning is that the SPC will finance construction of this
building wholly in local currency from revenues generated by the port. As
this investment is not directly operational (i.e. with improvement of cargo
handling) it has been taken into account in the economic and financial analyses
but it is not included in the project cost estimates.



- 23 -
D. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3.09   The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$29.8 million
of which US$25.0 million, representing the foreign exchange zomponent, would
be financed from the proposed Credit.  The local cost component will be
financed by SPC which would allocate funds for the purpose. It is proposed
that the Association provide a credit of US$25.0 million to the Government
of Sudan to be onlent to SPC (except for the amount allocated for the grain
silo modifications) for a period of 20 years, including four years of grace,
with interest at 15% per annum. SPC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
This was agreed during negotiations. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and SPC, acceptable to the Association,
was agreed upon as a condition of effectiveness. The Project Preparation
Facility in the amount of US$250,000 is included in the US$25.0 milliion
foreign exchange component. During appraisal the mission was informed that
all contracts will be net of taxes and custom duties. This was confirmed
during negotiations.



- 24 -
3.10    A summary of costs the proposed project is given below:
SUDAN
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Appraisal Cost Estimate
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Foreign
-------tSd (000) ------    --------US$(000)------
A. Civil Works
Berth 17/18 Modifications 1,226   5,572   6,798         1,362   6,191   7,553       25
Berth 16 Modifications        245   1,115   1,360         272   1,239   1,511        5
Grain Silo Modifications    156   3,493   3,649           173   3,881   4,054       15
Paving Stage I                322   1,466   1,788         358   1,629   1,987        6
Communications                 85      385     470         94      428      522      2
Edible Oil Lines              180      819     999        200      910   1,110       4
Electrical Modifications    277   2,692   2,969           308   2,991   3,299       12
Sub-Total               2,491  15,542  18,033        2,767  17,269  20,036       69
B.  Training                       38      450     488         42      500      542      2
C.  Technical Assistance          225   1,350   1,575         250   1,500   1,750        6
D.  Engineering & Supervision 2/ 41   1,080   1,121             46   1,200   1,246       5
Sub-Total                304   2,880   3,184          338   3,200   3,538       13
E.  Contingencies - Physical 1/ 253   1,499   1,752           281   1,665   1,946        7
Price      790   2,579   3,369          878   2,866   3,744       11
Total                  3,838  22,500  26,338        4,264  25,000  29,264    100
1/   5% on mechanical and 10% on civil works
2/   Includes PPF amount of US$250,000



- 25 -
3.11      Cost estimates for all works are based on bid results.  The foreign
exchange cost for technical assistance is estimated to be about US$10,000 per
man month of foreign experts time including salary, fees, international
travel, and all other offshore costs. Engineering and supervision costs
include about 100 man months for supervision at an average cost of US$9,500
per man month including all fees, salaries, allowances and other offshore
costs. Additional local staff will be seconded, as available, by SPC for
training purposes and financed by SPC directly.
3.12      A physical contingency allowance of 10% for civil works and 5% for
mechanical equipment is included. Basic costs of construction and equipment
are in mid-1981 prices and contingencies for price escalation are based on the
following.
Foreign costs - 1982, 8.5%; 1983, 7.5%; 1984, 7.5%.
Local costs   -  1982, 15%: 1983, 10%;   1984, 7%.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
3.13     All contracts for civil works and equipment under the proposed project
to be financed by the Bank Group will be tendered and awarded in accordance
with the Bank Group's "Guidelines" for international competitive bidding.
Disbursements from the Credit would be made against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for civil works (80% of total
cost);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for material and equipment
(96% of total cost);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for engineering services (96%
of total cost); and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for training and technical
assistance (84% of total cost).
3.14     All disbursement requests will be fully documented.  The estimated
schedule of disbursements from the IDA Credit is given in table 3.1.



- 26 -
Table 3.1
SUDAN
SECOND PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ 000)
Amount           Cumulative
FY 82
March 82                                     250
June 82                                    1,250              1,500
FY 83
September 82                               2,000              3,500
December 82                                2,000              5,500
March 83                                   2,500              8,000
June 83                                    2,500             10,500
FY 84
September 83                               3,000             13,500
December 83                                3,000             16,500
March 84                                   2,000             18,500
June 84                                    1,750             20,250
FY 85
September 84                               1,250             21,500
December 84                                1,250             22,750
March 85                                   1,250             24,000
June 85                                      500             24,500
FY 86
September 85                                 250             24,750
December 85                                  250             25,000
Project completion date December 31, 1985
Closing Date June 30, 1986
Source: Consultant's reports and mission estimate.



- 27 -
F. Project Implementation
3.15      Implementation of the proposed project will be the responsibility
of the SPC. SPC will rely on the services of a consulting firm for the
supervision of project execution, as SPC does not have adequate engineering
capability, and there is no appropriate Government public works agency which
could act for SPC. The appointment of a suitable consultant for the supervi-
sion of the project will be a condition of loan effectiveness. As was done
under the First Port Project, the SPC New Projects Director will represent SPC
and supervise the project as a whole, while a Resident Engineer will be
appointed to head the consultants resident staff. The function of the Project
Director will be to ensure the protection of SPC's interests, to supervise the
work of the consultants and approve any substantial change in design or costs.
The function of the Resident Engineer will be to represent the SPC on site,
oversee the execution of contracts, supervise the resident consultant staff,
inspection of the works, approval of payment certificates, certification of
quantity surveys, and approval of variation orders. The Project Director may
assign other SPC personnel to work with the consultants for on-the-job train-
ing in the management of civil works.
3.16      Implementation of the project is expected to take three years.
The studies and design for the civil works were carried out under the First
Port Project. Tenders have been received for the civil works contracts and
award of the contracts is expected to be made after the signing of the IDA
Credit documents. To help SPC finance consultants services not covered under
the First Port Project an advance from the Bank Group's Project Preparation
Facility in the amount of US$250,000 has been arranged. This advance will be
repaid from the proceeds of the proposed Credit as soon as it becomes effective.
The disbursement schedule is based on the fact that the supervisory staff is
in place and the work will be a continuation of the First Project and the
contractors should be in an excellent position to move quickly after contract
award. It is therefore estimated that the standard Sudan disbursement profile
does not apply in this case.
3.17      Since the grain storage silo, to be improved under the proposed
project, belongs to the Government and is managed by the Agricultural Bank of
Sudan assurances were obtained during negotiations, and included in the Credit
Agreement, that arrangements satisfactory to the Association would be taken to
enable SPC to carry out and be responsible for the implementation of the
improvements to the grain silo.
3.18      A proposed implementation schedule is given in the accompanying
chart.



NOISIA83dnS
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx,cxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx) xxxxxx                        /-9N3
xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx                                 3ONVlSISSV
IVDINHO31
XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXx XXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxxxxxxx                                   9NINIVS1
XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXX                    S3NIt1 lI0 318IQ3
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXxxxxxxxxx  cxxxxxxxxxx                        SNOIlVDINnWwOD
XXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXxxXXxxxxxx                               9NIAVd
xxxxxxxxxxKsXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKxxxxxxxxxxxxxx, sXXXXXXXXXXXX                           OIS NIVN9
xxxxxxxKxxxxxxxxxxxxxx: xxxxxxxxxxxx                            91 H1N38
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1 .i
XXXXXXXXXX KXXXXXXXxXXXXXXX KXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXxX                          VLIJ.L HA313
C I   Z* I  T   * I   *  Z* I T   * I   *  Z* I T     *    I  Z* I T      * I     W31I 133r0Ud
586L             ML6                269 Z86l                       T86T
mla ~lVONml1V
Wlf1GHHS NOIIYINaNa'IJWI
ID2fold I'dod acooas
&Vcas
- Z -



- 29 -
G. Project Monitoring
3.19      For purposes of monitoring the project during implementation the
following matters were reviewed with the SPC, during negotiations, respecting
appropriate data to be provided by SPC in quarterly reports.
(a) progress of the project works with cost data
(b) general cargo movements and berth utilization
(c) container RO-RO and grain cargo movements and berth utilization;
(d) bulk cargo movements and berth utilization
(e) training and technical assistance
(f) SPC's financial performance (operating ratios,
cash flow requirements and overall operations);
(g) equipment operation and maintenance (availability and costs)
(h) ship waiting time and productivity indicators
3.20      The First Port Project concentrated primarily on break-bulk cargo
operations by improving storage areas, providing a fleet of shore-side cargo
handling equipment and pallet-making equipment. This does not necessarily
mean an immediate increase in ship-handling rates. When palletizing begins
a learning curve must be anticipated which combined with new mechanized
handling techniques for moving and storing cargo on the quays may well mean
lower handling rates for some time. General cargo productivity is currently
in line with targets established for the First Port Project. The proposed
project focuses on RO-RO and container handling improvements. The ratio of
LASH 1/ grain cargo to bulk shipment in regular ships will affect the meaning-
fulness of targets for grain handling. A minimum off-loading rate of 320
tonnes per hour is expected for grain handling on completion of the project.
For container operations the ratio of ships equipped with full lift-on/lift-off
gear to ships not so equipped, the number of hatches worked, shore-side travel
time and the amount of time the container berths are preempted by tankers
materially affect the throughput. A rate of 12 to 14 containers per hour
appears reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the relatively low con-
tainer volume at this time, equipment to raise throughput to 20 to 25 con-
tainers per hour is not justified. RO-RO traffic is not expected to be large
at first. The proposed project will enable ships to dock more conveniently
and to use optional unloading/loading procedures (lift on/lift-off and side/
angle ramps as well as stern ramps). It is expected that a throughput of
1,600 tonnes/day will be achievable. Specific efficiency indicators to be
used in monitoring the above items will be included in the reporting require-
ments for the proposed project and were agreed with SPC during negotiations.
The targets listed are based on a two shift operation.
1/   Lighter aboard ship- a vessel that carries loaded barges that can dropped
over the side without actually coming into port or alongside a berth.



- 30 -
Objective
(a)  Equipment (cargo handling) availability:           85%
(from July 1983)
to measure the effectiveness of the
port maintenance system
(b)  Equipment (cargo handling) utilization:            85%
(from July 1983)
to measure the effectiveness of
employment of equipment in port
operations
(c)  General cargo clearance:                           No net increase in
accumulation of general
cargo on port property
(d)  Average ship waiting time:                         Less than 24 hours
average per ship
to measure the ability of the port
to reduce waiting time in relation
to increased productivity, and to
assess physical port capacity as
reflected in waiting time
(e)  Ship working productivity:                         20% average improvement,
in ship turnaround time
to measure the rate of unloading/                 between the time of
loading the principal types of ships.             arriving at berth and the
time ofleaving berrtn, over
1981 levels.
(f)  Gang shift productivity:                           20% average
improvement over 1981
to measure the increase in                        levels.
productivity due to handling
general cargo augmented by
mechanical equipment
(g)  Container Handling Productivity:                   By 1984, twelve containers
per hour on average while
to measure the effective                          a ship is working at berth
capacity of the containers
terminal at berths 17 and 18
(h)  Grain Ship Discharge                               By 1984 three hundred tons
per hour or 2000 tons per
to ensure bulk grain ships                        day while a ship is work-
are discharged efficiently                        ing at berth, representing
nearly 100% improvement
over present rates.



- 31 -
3.21      The maintenance of mechanical equipment is an essential factor
in the attainment of port productivity objectives. In order to meet the
requirements for a planned maintenance program the SPC must maintain adequate
stocks of spare parts, materials and equipment.
3.22      Adequate methods for collecting and analyzing statistical data
required for project monitoring were agreed on during negotiations as part of
an overall management information system.
3.23      The Government through SPC will prepare a Completion Report within
six months after the closing date of the project.
H. Environmental Impact
3.24      The proposed project will make no material change in the environment
of the port. Measures introduced under the First Port Project are expected to
have a substantial beneficial effect on the waters of the port when fully
implemented. These include strict regulations on dumping in the harbour and
the deployment of equipment to deal with oil spills. Increased attention to
equipment maintenance is expected to reduce vehicle exhaust pollution somewhat
but private commercial vehicles in the town and port area are more serious
offenders.
I. Employment Impact
3.25      As new cargo handling equipment has been introduced under the First
Port Project a greater degree of mechanization is involved and much higher
productivity rates are developing. However, it is anticipated that the effect
on SPC manpower will be small as traffic growth will be primarily in unitized
traffic while the volume of the more labor intensive, direct delivery and
mixed general traffic will remain steady or decline slowly. At present good
quality personnel for construction work are at a premium in Port Sudan and
thus any redundancies among port workers will be readily absorbed.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Future Traffic
4.01      The growth and composition of traffic through the Sudan ports are
difficult to predict because of major uncertainties concerning the economy's
development. Petroleum exploration is advanced in the South and the Sudanese
waters of the Red Sea; the medium term effect of success should be to reduce
the balance of payments constraints on the growth of the economy. Likewise if
the agricultural development program, particularly in sugar production,
finally overcomes implementation problems a similar salutory effect might be



- 32 -
obtained. At the other extreme, agriculture developments could continue to
disappoint, petroleum import costs, in real terms, continue to grow and the
economy could continue to stagnate.
4.02       The effects on import and export traffic would broadly follow the
above scenarios, with a relaxation of balance of payments pressures enabling a
continued significant growth of imports both of capital and consumer goods
while at the other extreme import growth could be severely restricted and
exports continue to grow only modestly. To assess the effects of these
varying possibilities two sets of forecasts (High and Low growth rates) have
been developed for both imports and exports (Table 4.1). These are based on
forecasts prepared by Livesey & Henderson in the preparation of the project
and RRI in preparation of the updated proposal for Port Suakin development.
The forecasts adopted are similar to either consultants' forecast with however
both consultants "high" export forecasts scaled down to be compatible with the
MNP, "Export Action Program 1980-90" projections.
4.03       The main features of the traffic projections are that consumer goods
imports are likely to be constrained unless the economy improves, and under
the low forecast show, in aggregate, little growth while imports of capital
goods, which substantially represent the result of aid programs are likely to
continue at a fairly high level. An exception to this is cement. The low
forecast assumes that utilization of capacity of existing plant in Sudan is
improved and offsets demand growth, while the high forecast assumes it will
not.
4.04       For exports, it is assumed under both low and high scenarios
that groundnut exports will be mainly in the form of edible oil, reflecting
the preferences of the main consumers, the European market. This would be
accompanied by a growth of groundnut cake, which is a by-product. Dura
exports are, on balance, a residual between domestic production and consumption
and little change from existing levels is forecast. For sugar, the main
assumption is that Sudan will finally become a net exporter; the difference
between the high and low forecasts reflect uncertainty of timing and mag-
nitude of this surplus. Finally, for other agricultural exports, particularly
cotton, the Export Action Program forecasts are used as a basis for the high
forecast, while a more pessimistic assumption regarding the speed of its
realization is employed in the low forecast.
4.05       The forecasts of relevance for the project exclude petroleum imports
and exports as these have a limited impact on the demand for port capacity and
are particularly sensitive to the magnitude and timing of Sudanese petroleum
production. Excluding sugar which is expected to change from an import to an
export traffic the forecast FY1981-FY1992 growth rates for dry cargo (plus
edible oil and molasses exports) are: Imports "High" 5.6% p.a. "Low" - 1.5%
p.a., Exports "High" 8.9% p.a. "Low" 6.6 p.a. and Best Forecast ("High"
imports and "Low" exports) 6.0% p.a. The export growth is from exceptionally
low levels and is mainly expected in the late 1980s by which time agricultural
sector and macroeconomic measures now under way are expected to have been
translated into increased production. The import growth rates are lower than
the exceptionaly high rate of 8.3% p.a. recorded FY 1976-FY1981, and the "Low"



SUDAN SECOND PORT PROJECT
BEST TRAFFIC FORECAST (000) Tons)
("HIGH" IMPORT AND "LOW" EXPORT)
1980        1981       1982       1983       1984        1985      1986       1987        1987 1/ 2/   1988         1989       1990        1991       1992        (1992)1/ 2/
IMPORTS
Crude Petroleum and                             1275         1252       1100       1281       1176        1072       956       1026        1200           1096       1165       1235        1280       1200         200D
Products
Wheat                                             358         198        220         376        382        38       394        400         285            420        440        460         480        500          350
Sugar                                             277         190        160          50         50         --        --          --         --             --         --          --         --          --          --
Fertilizer                                         78         172         90        129         147        164       182        200         135            209        218        228         238        248          167
Cement                                            154         205        188        205         223        240       257        275         111            288        301         314        327        341          138
Total Bagqed                                      550         685        438        384         420        404       439        475         246            497        519         542        565        589          305
Tim-ber                                            37          6           700                   55         60        65          70         46             54         62          70         78       8__7           57
Iron and Steel                                     72         110        200        126         144        163       181        200         120            200        218        228         238        248          149
Flour                                              41         118        180          26         31         37        43          50         21             52         54          56         59          62          26
Jute Sacks                                         44          49         40         47          48         49        50          50         45             52         54          56         59         62           56
Vehicles                                           28          18         25          46         52         58        64          70         34             73         76          79         83          87          42
Machinery/Equipment                                39          95         80          57         63         69        74          80         45             84         88          92         96         99           56
Other General                                     418         407        437         550        588        630       674         720        526            751        784         819        855        893          652
of which Consumer Goods                         206         203        200        275         294        315       337        360         240            375        392        410         428        446          303
Capital Goods                         212         204        277        275         294        315       337        360         286            376        392        409         427        447          349
Total General                                     638         740        852         902        981       1066       1151       1240        837           1275       1336        1400       1468       1538        1038
Total (Ex-Petroleum)                             1548        1628       1510       1662        1783       1858      1984       2115        1368           2192       2295       2402        2513       2627        1693
Total Imports                                    2822        2881       2610       2943        2959       2930      2940       3141        2568           3288       3460        3762       3793       3827        3693
EXPORTS
Petroleum Products                                258         193        160         224        230        247       432         250        275            250        250         227        250         250        275        1
Edible Oil                                         24          67         45          56         67         78        89         100        150            104         109        114        119         124        186
Molasses                                           -           -          -           10         20         30         40         50        100             52          54         56          59         62        124       '
Groundnuts                                         26          92        100          61         63         65        67          69        100             70          70         70          70         70         70
Sesame Seed                                        47          61         77          56         59         62        66          70        100             73          76         79         83          87        124
Oil Cake                                          210         170        110         210        234        260       298         329        400            360        401         450        450         450        450
Dura                                              366         302         177        300        385        350        375        400        400            420        440         460        480         500       STI
Bran                                               15            7         10         10         10         10         10         10         10             10          10         10           -         -          -
Total Bagqed                                      665         633        484         637        671        697       816         878       1010            933        997        1069       1083        1107       1144
Cotton                                            182          90          55         80        105        133       144         157        192            170         184        250        260         270        400
Ore                                                22          28          25         34         38         42        46          50         75             52          54         56          59         62         93
Gum                                                40           34        42          43         44         46         48         50         55             52          54         56          59         62         68
Seeds                                              40          32          37         39         41         44        47          50         60             52          54         56          59         62         74
Serap                                               9            3         12         13         14         15         16         17         20             17          18         19          20         21         25
Hides                                               5           4           5          5          5           5         5          5         10               5          5          6           6          6          12
Sugar                                              -           -           -          -          -          50         75         75         75             75          75         75         100        100        100
Other General                                      14          20          36         38         41         44         47         50         75             52          54         56          59         62         93
Live Animals                                      (29)         (31)       (33)       (35)       (37)        (39)      (41)       (44)       (60)           (45)        (46)       (47)        (48)       (52)        (70)
Total General                                     312         211         212        252        297        369       428         454        562            477         502        574         622        645        966
Total   t-Petroleum-)                            1001         910        741         955       1655       1174      1373        1482       1822           1564       1662        1813       1883        1238       2420
Total                                            1259        1103        901        1179       1285       1421      1805        1732       2097           1814       1912        2050       2143        2188       2695
Total Imports & Exports                          4081        3984       3511        4122       4Z44       4351      4745        4873       4665           5102       5372        5812       5925        6015       6388
Total (Ex-Petroleum)                             2549        2538       2251        Z617       2838       3632      3357        3597       3190           3756       3957        4215       4396        4565
CONTAINERIZED
Imports                                            10          52          90        140        210       300         380        420        _ _            _ _         __         _ _
Exports                                             2            6         10         20         30        40          60         80        --             --          --         --          --         --
Total                                              12           58        100        180        24U       340         440        500                --           --         --          --         --               --_
1/  "Low" Import Forerast.
2/  "High" Export Forecast (  ) not included in totals.



- 34 -
forecast reflects a possible need to reduce imports to achieve an improved
balance of payments. The proportion of general cargo containerized is expected
to increase rapidly, a phenomenon being experienced throughout the Red Sea and
Gulf Areas, with the containerized tonnage rising from 60,000 tons in FY1981
to 500,000 tons in FY1987.
B. Timing of Port Suakin
4.06      As noted under Port Operations (para. 3.05) Port Suakin is now
envisaged by the Government as a container terminal. Suakin construction
would thus only affect the unitized traffic of Port Sudan, and its transfer
would merely increase the berth capacity at Port Sudan available for general
cargo by about 11% (from 11 1/2 to 13 berths). This would reduce berth
occupancy at Port Sudan but not sufficiently to cause unacceptably low
utilization. Thus the project justification is not significantly affected by
the timing presently proposed for Port Suakin construction, with the port
operational by FY1990.
4.07      However, while the proposed Second Port Sudan project will still be
economically justified even if Port Suakin is constructed according to the
above timetable, commencement of Port Suakin construction in the near future
would still be premature. The Second Port Sudan investments, together with
supplementary investment in Port Sudan which can be undertaken comparatively
rapidly in accordance with traffic development, should enable Port Sudan to
handle all Sudanese seaborne traffic until beyond 1990. Thus provision
of Port Suakin capacity before then would be premature and the ERR on the Port
Suakin Project as presently proposed will, in the Bank-s opinion, be
unacceptedly low. Accordingly the covenant described in para 3.06 has been
agreed with the Government during negotiations.
C. Project Benefits and Their Distribution
Assumptions
4.08       The assessment of project benefits is complicated.  This is because:
(a) the effects of the still incomplete First project have still to work their
way through; (b) the proposed second project has been designed to allow for a
follow-up project within the forecast period should the need arise and (c) the
need for further investment at Port Sudan and indeed the manner in which some
of the project investment is utilized in the longer term, depends on the
timing of operation of new port facilities at Suakin. The basic assumptions
employed in the benefit analysis are as indicated below, while the main
variations are tested in the sensitivity analyses.
(a) the First Project, together with the completion of main berth
paving provided for under the project, will result in an
improvement in general cargo productivity (both ship and shore
handling) of nearly 50% on average. This takes into account



- 35 -
that handling rates for some types of cargo (light imports) are
still very low and the equipment which will enable these rates
to be improved has wisely been withheld from service until
paving is substantially completed;
(b) although some increase in unitized traffic, and hence further port
productivity improvements would occur even in the absence of the
project, only by the provision under the project of tailor-made
unitized facilities will the full potential of unitization be
realized. This will be achieved, inter alia, by completion of the
operationally flexible RO-RO berth, removal of the archaic fendering
system and conversion of berths 17/18 into a deep water container
berth, and provision of the necessary paved container stacking area;
(c) a further assumption is that further Port Sudan investment will be
necessary about FY1986/1987. This would probably be at berths
12/13, presently only intermittently used due to shallow draft, and
would be of a nature appropriate to the traffic characteristics then
obtaining. An approximate investment of US$20.0 million (in 1981
prices) has been introduced in those years.
(d) the grain silo equipment upgrading should enable the future volumes
of import grain and some export dura (about 20%; the rest will be
loaded direct) to be handled without excessive delays to ships. As
import grain ships will naturally have priority, the improved
productivity will not, however, enable the berth to be used syste-
matically for other traffic, and thus there would be no addition
to general cargo capacity from this source.
Benefits
4.09       The benefit from the anticipated increase in productivity of ship
loading/unloading operations is basically a result of the ongoing First Port
Project supplemented by the completion of paving, financed under the present
project. Rather than attribute a proportion of benefits to paving completion,
the cost of this work has been excluded for purposes of economic analysis from
total project costs.
4.10      The main project benefits can thus be grouped under two headings,
those resulting from provision of unitized traffic facilities and improved
vegetable oil pipelines; and those resulting from silo upgrading.  In neither
cases do the benefits accrue to the SPC directly; shipping companies gain from
unitized facilities and the Sudanese Government from improved grain facilities.
However the improved power supply benefits SPC directly through improved
efficiency in use of capital and labour.
Unitized Traffic Benefits
4.11      Berth occupancy was over 90% in FY1980 with ship waiting time
totalling over 3,800 days of which, however, nearly two-thirds occurred in
the first half year. Provisional data indicates some further improvement



- 36 -
in FY1981. The conference lines, which had in previous years imposed a 15%
surcharge, were given berth allocation preference and as a result rescinded
the surcharge. However, this has merely meant that the incidence of waiting
has been transferred mainly to charter vessels and tramps," the former, at
least, of which presumably adjust their rates for this. Thus in FY1980 the
shipping lines in aggregate incurred costs of idle time in port amounting to
about US$30.0 million p.a. About one third - that attributable to Sudanese or
direct charter vessels - can be considered a direct cost to the Sudanese
economy. The effects of the ongoing First Port Project will be felt over the
next several years and result in a further improvement in ship handling and
ship waiting time reduction. Then congestion will reappear and without the
proposed project general cargo berth occupancy would be over 90% by FY1986 and
over 100% by FY1988 with, in theory an infinite queue of ships. Even with the
project, berth occupancy will continue at a fairly high, though tolerable
level (Table 4.2).
Table 4.2
Berth Occupancy (%)
Actual  Estimate  -----     --- Forecast -----------
1980     1981      1984  1985  1986  1987  1990  1992
With Project High Forecast        95        90        79    87    93    89    96    99
Best Traffic Forecast           95        90        75    80    89    85    90    93
Sensitivity Forecast            95        90       67    62    66    63    67    7C
Without Project High Forecast   95          90        80    90  > 98  >100  >100  >100
Best Traffic Forecast           95        90       76    83    92    98  >100  >100
Sensitivity Forecast            95        90       67    69    73    75    84    90
4.12      In assessing the project benefits, the assumptions are made that (i)
an infinite queue situation would be translated into re-imposition of a
surcharge; (ii) this surcharge would again be at the rate of 15% and would
apply only to general cargo imports (mainly carried by conference line ships),
as export cargoes are generally direct delivery and will have benefitted from



- 37 -
the increased ship handling productivity; and (iii) bulk import ships which
(apart from grain) are generally older and whose idle time is less valuable
will benefit at about half the rate applicable to general cargo imports. On
these assumptions, the project should enable avoidance of shipping costs
rising to nearly US$17.0 million by FY 1992 of which over $15.0 million would
be attributable to Sudan. The second source of benefit is the reduced risk of
damage to cargo resulting from containerization. Insurance costs are typically
2 to 3% of value; containerization can be expected to reduce these by at least
a fifth. Assuming the volume of containerized traffic without the project
would only be about half that with it the project generates a benefit which
would rise to about US$1.4 million in FY1992. This is based upon an SPC
estimated unit value of traffic of US$700-800 per tonne which looks low and
the benefit estimate, which does not include the possible excess of damage
costs over that covered by insurance may thus be underestimated.
Grain Silo Benefits
4.13       The main benefit from grain silo modernization will come from faster
ship unloading. This should ensure that discharging is achieved within the
time allowed without incurring demurrage. In the last four years demurrage
charges, almost exclusively on shipments of up to 24,000 tons from the USA
have averaged nearly US$1.0. million p.a. The ship delays, and hence demurrage,
could be expected to increase with the continued growth of wheat imports, for
which Sudan is unlikely to find a domestically produced substitute, and reach
about US$2.6 million p.a. by FY1992. With the project,these delays, and hence
demurrage, should be virtually eliminated. A second, and more speculative
source of benefit would be that the associated improvement in equipment for
loading railcars and trucks should increase the effective capacity of the silo
and enable some dura, and possibly seed, exports to be handled in bulk. RRI
estimated that about 20% of dura exports could be handled in bulk. Assuming
the loading rate was double that of bagged cargo (and the increase could be
greater) the saving in export ship time at berth would be worth about US$0.2 -
0.3 million p.a. by FY 1992.
Power Supply Benefits
4.14       Power interruptions have averaged nearly one hour per day on average
in FY 1979 and FY 1980, or about 5% of port operating time. The project
investment should largely eliminate these interruptions. The benefits will be
a) improved ship working, reflected in berth occupancy (table 4.2) and b)
improved labour efficiency reflected in reduced SPC personnel costs.
D. Economic Costs of the Project
4.15       The economic costs of the project exclude the cost of completing the
First Project paving, the benefits from which have been attributed to that
project. The costs, both for the unitized berth complex and the grain silo,
include the estimated costs of upgrading the associated electrical equipment.
This upgrading is necessary for the effective functioning of these installations.



- 38 -
4.16      In the total costs of the project are also included training and
technical assistance, which make direct contributions to the overall effici-
ency of the port, and the cost of a new headquarters building. This con-
struction, financed wholly by SPC, can be expected to have beneficial psyco-
logical and to a lesser extent operational effects, but an economic justifica-
tion would be very difficult to make and none has been attempted. The project
economic costs include physical contingencies but exclude taxes.
E. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
4.17     The economic rate of return on the total project is 26%.  On the
unitized facilities it is 31% and on the silo 30% (Table 4.3). The first year
rate of return on the project as a whole is 23% indicating that the project
should be implemented without delay. These ERR are based upon shadow prices
for local costs and benefits. Since foreign costs are expressed at world
prices, shadow pricing of these costs is not necessary. For local costs and
benefits shadow pricing at the recommended 70% of the parallel exchange rate
(giving a shadow rate of ESd.1.14/$1.00) is employed. (This rate may be
revised before Board presentation but this is unlikely to affect the results
significantly). The effect on labor in the economy is difficult to predict,
but is likely on balance to be small. For example, handling containers in
port is capital intensive, but the consequent reduction in port labor require-
ments for a given volume of traffic will be substantially offset by the
increased labor needed to pack and unpack the containers in the port or at
their final origin/destination. Labor saving is not included as a significant
benefit of the project and consequently labor shadow pricing does not arise.
4.18      The sensitivity analysis tests the effect of the following variables,
in isolation or combination: low instead of best traffic forecast; construc-
tion costs 10% greater than expected; Port Suakin operational in FY1990 and
the effect of inclusion and exclusion of the cost of the headquarters building
in total project costs. The results are shown below in matrix form (Table
4.4). With the best traffic forecast, the minimum ERR under any combination
of parameter values is 14.5%. Taken as a whole, the sensitivity analyzes show
acceptable rates of return.



SUD&2A PORT TWO PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
(US$ million)                                                                   FRR
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992        x
Unit'ze8 Traffic
TTerminal
Costs                        4.8        6.5      2.5       0.7    10.00    10.00
Benefits                                                   2.60      5.20    12.56    12.91    13.47    13.92    14.48    15.05             31
Grain Silo
Tec:nmnal
Costs                         1.7        2.5     1.1       0.3
Benetits                                                   1.84      2.05      2.28      2.37      2.48      2.59      2.71      2.84       30
Total Project
(inc. T/A, Training)
Costs                         6.9       13.8      8.2      3.1      10.00   10.00
4.94      7.77    15.34    15.84        16.53    17.11    17.80    18.51    26
Benefits 
(Includiag Power Supply)



- 40 -
Sensitivity Analysis ERR
Table 4.4
Suakin Not Built               Suakin Operational
Costs                                                       FY 1990
Traffic                           Traffic
"Best"       "Low"              "Best"       "Low"
Best                        26           14                17.1         8.4
High                        24           13                14.5         7.0
Best l/                                                    19.7        12.8
High 1/                                                    17.2        11.3
1/   Excluding Headquarters Building
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      SPC was incorporated on March 18, 1974 by "The Sea Ports Corpo-
ration Act, 1974" and commenced operations on July 1, 1974. Prior to in-
corporation, the port was operated by the Sudan Railways Corporation.
5.02      Effective July 1, 1974, the assets and liabilities to be taken
over by the new corporation from SRC were determined and the net amount was
treated as an equity contribution from the Government of Sudan. Interest
at the rate of 5% on this amount has been paid yearly to the Government.
The Government has indicated that this policy will be changed and that in
future years, the annual payment will be based on its entire equity in SPC,
thereby including not only the capital but also the retained earnings and
capital surplus. For the purpose of financial evaluation, this payment is
treated as an appropriation of net income.



- 41 -
B. Past Performance
5.03      Since incorporation, SPC has recorded a profit in all years.
Traffic handled has increased by approximately 15% during the period. This
combined with a general tariff increase as of July 1, 1977, and an ad valorem
tariff on quay charges, has resulted in increasing revenues. A further
increase in tariffs during FY 80 has substantially raised revenues and net
profits.
5.04      The assets acquired from SRC were almost fully depreciated, and
as very few investments had been made in the more recent years, the
provision for depreciation from 1975 to 1977 was unusually low. The
interest on the long-term debts taken over from SRC was capitalized and
does not show as an expense on the operating statements. The condensed
operating statements are set out below and details given in Table 1.
Operating Statements
(ISd million)
Year Ended June 30            1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Revenues                      7.15    8.97    9.19    11.63   14.33   26.89
Working Expenses              2.68    3.77    5.09       6.88    9.99   11.95
Operating Surplus             4.47    5.20    4.10       4.75    4.34   14.94
Depreciation                  0.27    0.26    0.29       0.49    0.66    0.81
4.20    4.94    3.81      4.26    3.68   14.13
Interest                         -       -        -         -    0.03    0.55
Net Profit                    4.20    4.94    3.81       4.26    3.65   13.58
5.05      At the time of the appraisal of the First Port Project, it was
agreed that a specialist would be retained to determine costs incurred by the
various services and to revise the tariff structure as part of the technical
assistance. This has been completed and the new tariff was implemented during
FY 80. While a small element of cross-subsidization still exists, the
tariffs are now more closely related to costs.
5.06      Due to the profitable operations and the low debt service require-
ment, SPC has been able to accumulate substantial cash reserves in each year
since incorporation. The current ratio and debt/equity ratio are both
extremely favorable and indicate a high level of liquidity. Included in



- 42 -
debtors, in the current assets, is an amount of iSd 8.0 million which was
lent by SPC to the Government of Sudan in June 1980 and repaid by the Govern-
ment during July.  To this extent the cash account is understated and debtors
overstated at June 30, 1980.  The value of fixed assets, as shown on the
balance sheet, has more than doubled since incorporation.  However, they are
stated at historic costs which may be considerably lower than current costs.
SPC has established an asset register under the technical assistance component
of Credit 781-SU and has recently revalued the assets in current values. The
condensed balance sheets are set out below with details in Tables 2 and 3.
Comparative Balance Sheets
(ESd millions)
Year Ended June 30             1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Current Assets                 4.64    9.08   13.20    15.01   17.27   30.94
Fixed Assets-net              7.62    7.76    7.91    10.47   12.25   20.38
Total                   12.26   16.84   21.11    25.48   29.52   51.32
Current Liabilities           0.90    1.34    2.65        2.49    3.44    4.95
Long Term Debt                 1.03    1.00    0.80       1.68    2.09    9.39
Equity                       10.33   14.50   17.66    21.31   23.99   36.98
Total                   12.26   16.84   21.11    25.48   29.52   51.32
C. Financial Forecasts
5.07      The financial projections do not include inflation and have been
prepared using a fixed monitary unit (1980). The following assumptions were
used in the projections:
a)   revenues are based on the traffic forecasts in Chapter
4 using the high imports and low exports and the 1980
tariff levels. All revenues, except storage, are based
on the levels of port activity. Revenues from storage
are assumed to decrease by 20% per year, for four years,
commencing in 1982, primarily due to the punitive rate
charged to encourage a more rapid transit time.



- 43 -
b)   personnel costs consist of a fixed part for administra-
tion and SPC staff calculated from the accounts at 64%,
and a variable part of 36% which increases with the
cargo handled. Allowance has also been made for an
increase in wages in real terms unassociated with in-
flation. Commencing with FY 85 it is estimated that
there will be a saving of 5% per annum in labor
costs resulting from the improved power supply
(para. 4.14).
c)   Stores costs for the base year, 1980, were increased by
an engineering estimate to a level equated to properly
maintain the equipment. Thereafter, they are increased
in relation to port throughput.
d)   Fuel costs were adjusted to reflect the heavy
increase in materials handling equipment and then
adjusted annually in relation to port activities.
In addition they have been increased annually
to reflect the anticipated price increase in real terms.
e)   Miscellaneous working expenses include the cost of
the technical assistance program and the remainder
fluctuate with port throughput.
f)   Provision for depreciation is calculated on a
straight-line basis using the rates currently
applied by SPC.
g)   In addition to the project components provision has
been made in the projections for the replacement of
life expired assets during the project period and
for the further investments required during 1986
and 1987 for the additional capacity provided.
h)   SPC will finance the local cost of the project compo-
nents from its own resources.



- 44 -
D. Projected Operating Statements
5.08      With the tariff increase implemented in 1980, the projections show
substantial operating profits in all years. However the profits decrease each
year to FY85 and increase thereafter. This is due to the anticipated decline
in storage revenues (para. 5.07(a)) and the increase in provision for deprecia-
tion and interest resulting from the project.  A condensed operating statement
is set out below and details are given in Table 4.
Projected Operating Statements
(ESd millions)
1981        1983        1985        1987
Revenues                  34.4        36.1         35.2        39.8
Working Expenses          15.0        17.0         17.8        18.9
19.4        19.1        17.4        20.9
Depreciation               2.5         4.9          5.4         6.1
16.9        14.2        12.0        14.8
Interest                   2.1         4.1         4.3          4.5
Net Income                14.8        10.1          7.7        10.3
Working Ratio (%)         43.6        47.1         50.6        47.5
E.  Projected Cash Flows
5.09       The annual cash flows are expected to be positive in all years due
to the high operating surplus and the relatively low debt service. Provision
has been made for annual payments to the Government of a 5% interest payment
on total capital, payable in the year following. Provision has also been
made for the replacement of all equipment reaching the end of its economic
life.  Details are given in Table 5 and a summary is set out on the following
page:



- 45 -
Projected Cash Flow
(tSd millions)
Year Ended June 30           1981    1982    1983       1984    1985
Funds Available
Operating Surplus          19.43   19.53   19.12    18.41   17.41
Loans                      16.09    8.32    7.83       1.92    0.06
Other                       0.53   15.34        -     0.68    0.74
36.05   43.19   26.95    21.01   18.21
Uses of Funds
Increase in Assets         25.21   11.50   14.27      8.36    2.31
Debt Service                2.16    3.34    5.38      5.65    6.33
Other                       1.85    2.49    3.02      3.33    3.60
29.22   17.33   22.67    17.34   12.24
Annual Surplus                6.83   25.86    4.28       3.67    5.97
5.10      The foreign exchange component of the project represents approxi-
mately 85% of the total costs and is covered by the proposed IDA credit. As a
result, the amounts to be paid in local currency are relatively low and do not
constitute a drain on SPC's resources. This, in turn, results in a build-up
of cash deposits, assuming all accounts are collected within 45 days.
Currently private port users pay promptly to avoid heavy storage charges, but
Government departments and parastatals are in arrears. SPC conducted an
aggressive collection policy and was successful in reducing the overdue
accounts for a time, but as of June 30, 1981, approximately 85% of the total
was due from Government accounts. During negotiations it was agreed that SPC
would take all such measures as required to collect its receivables within 45
days of the date of billing.
5.11      In order to safeguard SPC's cash flow position during the period
of implementation, the Government and SPC agreed during negotiations to
consult the Association whenever investments beyond those included in the
project are estimated to exceed LSD 1,000,000 (US$1,110,000 equivalent) per
annum in total.



- 46 -
5.12      SPC should maintain a reasonable relationship between net cash
revenue and debt service requirements. During negotiations it was agreed
that, unless otherwise agreed with the Association, SPC would not incur
any debt if its net cash revenue for the fiscal year or the twelve consecutive
months immediately before the date of occurance, whichever is greater, would
be less than 1.5 times the maximnm debt service requirements of any succeeding
fiscal year.
F. Projected Balance Sheets
5.13      Due to the profitability of operations, the high liquidity and the
existing low level of long-term debt, the projected balance sheets show a very
favorable position. The balance sheet is summarized below and set out in
detail in Table 6 and Table 7.
Condensed Balance Sheets
(LSd millions)
1981       1983        1985        1987
Current Assets              39.1        54.1       64.1        76.8
Fixed Assets - Net          23.6        47.7       46.9        55.3
Works in Progress           19.5        12.0        12.8        3.2
Total               82.2       113.8       123.8       135.3
Current Liabilities          6.8         6.9        8.8         9.1
Long Term Debt              25.5       40.2        38.9        38.6
Equity                      49.9       66.7        76.1        87.6
Total               82.2       113.8       123.8       135.3
G. Future Financial Objectives
5.14      The Sea Ports Corporation Act does not stipulate financial objectives
other than to state that the general reserve fund may be drawn upon to offset
any temporary shortage of revenue in order to prevent frequent fluctuations
in the tariffs. The First Port Project included an 8% rate of return covenant
on assets as revalued from time to time. In view of the need to have an
easily identified method of determining and achieving an agreed upon financial



- 47 -
objective it is proposed to change to a cash flow objective. Therefore, it
was agreed during negotiations that the Government and SPC will take all
measures appropriate to ensure that the revenues will be sufficient to cover
working expenses, debt service (principal and interest), to provide a reason-
able contribution towards development costs, and to pay an annual amount to
the Government equal to 5% of invested capital.
H. Impact of Inflation on SPC's Finances
5.15      To assess the impact of inflation on SPC's finances during the
project period, the working expenses are assumed to increase at the same rate
as the price contingencies provided in the project cost estimates. As quay
dues are assessed on the value of the cargo handled, they will also increase
at the same inflationary rates. Due to the high percentage of revenue earned
from the quay dues relative to total revenue, they tend to offset the increased
working expenses to a large extent. The following, in summary form, is the
projected operating statements after giving effect to inflation:
LSD 000
1982            1983          1984            1985
Revenues                    38,322          40,624         42,750          44,221
Working Expenses:
Personnel              13,193          15,175         16,988          18,052
Stores                  4,110           4,595          5,139           5,728
Fuel                      604             671            812             978
Miscellaneous           3,381           4,326          4,782           4)878
21,288          24,767        27,721          29,636
Operating Surplus           17,034          15,857         15,029          14,585
Working Ratio (%)              55.5            61.0          64.8            67.0
5.16      Increases in quay dues, while providing some protection against
the impact of inflation, do not fully compensate for increases in working
expenses. SPC and the Government agreed to an annual review of the tariff
schedule to ensure financial viability (Para 5.14).



- 48 -
I. Financial Internal Rate of Return
5.17      In order to assess the financial soundness of the proposed project,
the financial internal rate of return was calculated by projecting the operating
statements of SPC with and without the project, setting out the operating
surplus before provision for depreciation and interest. The projections are
done in constant 1980 prices.
5.18      Without the project, the variable component of the salary structure
will increase by 12%; the consumption of spare parts will increase by 15% and
fuel consumption will increase by 5% due to the harder usage of mobile equip-
ment on the south quay. In addition, SPC will not realize the reduction in
labor costs resulting from the improved power supply included in the project.
5.19      The financial internal rate of return with the project investments
is 7.7%. Most of the project benefits are not reflected in the accounts of
SPC unless port tariffs are adjusted. Details are given in Table 8.
VI RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
and SPC on the following matters:
(a) Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall not
undertake any other investment directly related to the
expansion of Sudan's port capacity unless the Association
shall have been provided, prior to making the investment
concerned, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such investment is economically and financially justified
(para. 3.06);
(b) the on-lending terms of the proposed credit from
the Government to SPC (para. 3.09);
(c) arrangements regarding grain silo (para. 3.17);
(d) operational targets (para. 3.20);
(e) management information system (para. 3.22);
(f) investments outside the project (para. 5.11);
(g) debt limitation (para. 5.12); and
(h) financial targets and future tariff adjustments (para. 5.14).
6.02      Progress reporting and completion reporting were agreed with
SPC during negotiations (paras. 3.20 and 3.21).



- 49 -
6.03      The appointment of consultants for the supervision of the project
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.15) and signing of the on-lending
agreement (para. 3.09) shall be conditions of effectiveness.
6.04      On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of US$25.0 million to the Government of Sudan.



- 50 -                      TABLE 1
SUDAN SEA PORTS CORPORATION
OPERATING STATEMENTS
(LSD '000)
Year Ended June 30               1975    1976    1977       1978      1979      1980
Revenues:
Quay Dues                     5,037   6,358   5,876    6,957    7,352   10,757
Equipment                        242      336     326       445       607    1,982
Porterage                        347      404     424       634       871    2,488
Storage                          694     954   1,565    2,425    4,016    9,084
Miscellaneous                    827      915     996    1,171    1,480    2,579
7,147   8,967   9,187   11,632   14,326   26,890
Working Expenses:
Personnel                     2,176   2,960   3,695    4,711    7,100    8,701
Stores                          129      184      313       399       876    1,054
Fuel                              51       69       74      131       104       229
Miscellaneous                    323      551   1,004    1,633    1,902    1,970
2,679   3,764   5,086    6,874    9,982   11,954
Operating Surplus          4,468   5,203   4,101    4,758    4,344   14,936
Provision for Depreciation         267      261      290      494       664       807
4,201   4,942   3,811    4,264    3,680   14,129
Interest Expense                   -       -        -        --          34       549
Net Profit                 4,201   4,942   3,811    4,264    3,646   13,580
Working Ratio                     0.37    0.42    0.55       0.59      0.70      0.44



- 51 -                    TABLE 2
SUDAN SEA PORTS CORPORATION
COMf'ARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS
(LSD '000)
Year Ended June 30                1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
ASSETS:
Current Assets:
Cash                            1,945    3,648    7,222    6,022    8,816    3,931
Debtors                         2,481    5,223    5,580    7,276    6,613   24,347
Inventories                       207       208      396    1,715    1,841    2,660
4,633    9,079   13,198   15,013   17,270   30,938
Fixed Assets - At Cost            7,701    7,952    8,435   10,292   12,977   16,298
Accumulated Depreciation          267       528      818    1,301    1,965    2,714
7,434    7,424    7,617    8,991   11,012   13,584
Work in Progress                  189       333       291    1,480    1,234    6,798
7,623    7,757    7,908   ln,471   12,246   20,382
TOTAL ASSETS:                    12,256   16,836   21,106   25,484   29,516   51,320
LIABILITIES & EQUITY:
Current Liabilities:
Creditors                         735    1,172    2,482    2,468    3,408    4,919
Long-Term Debt - Current          160       166      163        25        26       28
895    1,338    2,645    2,493    3,434    4,947
Long-Term Debt:                   1,193    1,164        963    1,706    2,12n    9,421
Less Current                      160       166      163        25        26        28
1,033      998       800    1,681    2,094    9,393
Equity:
Government Capital              6,450    6,450    6,462    6,462    6,462    6,633
Capital Reserve                   205       407      609       800       848      902
Retained Earnings               3,673    7,643   10,590   14,048   16,678   29,445
10,328   14,500   17,661   21,310   23,988   36,980
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY:    12,256   16,836   21,106   25,484   29,516   51,320
Current Ratio                       5.2       6.8      5.0       6.0       5.0      6.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                 9/91      6/94     4/96      7/93      8/92    20/80



- 52 -                    TABLE 3
SUDAN SEA PORTS CORPORATION
STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS AND CAPITAL RESERVE
(LSD '000)
Year Ended June 30                   1975    1976       1977      1978      1979      1980
Retained Earnings:
Opening Balance                        -      3,673    7,643   10,590   14,048   16,678
Add Profit for Year                  4,201   4,942    3,811    4,264    3,646   13,580
4_201   8,615   11,454   14,854   17,694   30,258
Deduct:
Interest on Capital                    323      323       323       323       634       323
Adjustments                            -        447       339       292       334       443
Transfer to Capital Reserve            205      202       202       191        48        47
528     972       864       806    1,016        813
Closing Balance                      3,673   7,643   10,590   14,048   16,678   29,445
Capital Reserve:
Opening Balance                        -        205       407       609       800       848
Adjustments                            -        -        --        --        --           7
Transfer from Retained Earnings        205      202       202       191        48        47
Closing Balance                        205      407       609       800       848       902



SUDAN - SEA PORTS CORPORATION
PROJECTED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(LS  000)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986         1987
REVENUFS
OUAY DUES                         13920.      15290.      16638.      17941.       19289.      20656.      22004.
EQUIPMENT                          4241.       4540.       4829.       5119.       5408.        5705.       5994.
PORTERAGE                          4758.       5185.       5603.       5999.       6416.        6842.       7259.
SlORAGE                            9961.       8840.       7283.       5272.       2135.        2272.       2412.
MISCELLANEOUS                      1588.       1i675.      1757.        1840.       1923.       2008.       2090.
34468.      35530.      36110.      36171.      35171.      37483.       39759,
WORKING EXPENSES
PERSONNFL                          9130.       9560.       9997.      10459.       10387.      10865.      11352.
STORES                             3326.       3475.       3614.       3760.       3899.        4047.       4186.
FUEL                                505.        511.        528.        594.        666.         719.        770.
MISCEILANEOUS                      2072.       2450.       2850.       2944.        2807.       2522.       2608.
15033.      15996.      16989.      1775'7.     17758.      18153.       18916.
OPERATING SURPLUS                   19435.      19534.       19121.      18414.      17413.      19330.      20843.
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION           2533.       4167.       4954.       5282.        5409.       5808.       6088.
16902.      15367.      14167.      13132.      12004.      13523.       14755.
INTEREST                             2135.       3193.       4113.       4384.        4340.       4426.       4511.
NET INCOME                     14767.      12174.      10053.       8748.       7664.        9097.      10244.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-__ _ _ _ _ _ _
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



SUDAN - SEA PORTS CORPORATION
PROJECTED CASH FLOW
(CS '000)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
1981       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
- - - - - ~  - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - - - _-_- -_- -_- -_-
SOURCE OF FUNDS
OPFRATING SURPLUS                19435.      19534.      19121.      18414.      17413.      19330.     20843.
LONG TERM DEBT                   16086.       8321.       7828.       1923.        60.       2686.       2686.
DECREASE IN NON CASH
WORKING CAPITAL                  525.      15343.                   677.        740.
36046.     43198.      26949.      21014.      18213.      22016.      23529.
USE OF FUNDS
_   _   _   _   _- -
INCREASE IN FIXED ASSETS         25207.      11501.      14268.      8362.       2312.       5986.       4736.                           n
DEBT SERVICE - PRINCIPAL            28.        150.       1267.       1268.       1990.      2844.       2846.
- INTEREST          2135.       3193.      4113.       4384.       4340.       4426.       4511.                           I
INTEREST ON CAPITAL               1849.       2495.      2979.       3333.       3603.       3806.       4071.
INCREASE IN NON CASH
WORKING CAPITAL                                           42.                               544.        396.
29219.      17339.     22669.      17346.      12246.      17606.      16560.
ANNUAL CASH SURPLUS                 6826.      25859.       4280.       3668.      5968.       4410.       6968.
OPENING BALANCE                     3931.      10757.      36617.      40897.     44564.      50532.       54943.
CLOSING BALANCE                    10757.      36617.      40897.      44564.     50532.      54943.      61911.
07'
H
Lii



SUDAN - SEA PORTS CORPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(ES 'OOO)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
1981       1982        1983        1984    I  1985        1986        1987
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
BANK                               10757.     36617.      40897.      44564.     50532.      54943.      61911.
DEBTORS                            21699.      5841.       5936.       5946.       5782.      6162.       6536.
INVENTORIES                        6653.       6950.       7228.       7519.      7797.       8095.       8373.
39109.     49407.      54061.      58030.     64111.      69199.      76820.
FIXED ASSETS                         28845.     51609.      61693.      68250.     70781.      83597.      89197.
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION            5247.      9414.      13991.      18887.     23910.      29331.      33883.
23598.     42195.      47702.     49363.      46871.      54266.      55314.
WORK IN PROGRESS                   19458.      8195.      12002.      13421.      12816.      5600.       3200.
43056.     50390.      59704.      62784.     59687.      59866.      58514.                           1n
TOTAL ASSETS                         82166.     99798.    113765.    120813.    123798.        129064.     135334.
LiABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
PAYABLES                            6667.      5332.       5663.       5919.       5919.      6051.       6305.
LONG TERM DEBT - CURRENT             150.      1267.       1268.       1990.       2844.      2846.       2848.
6817.      6599.       6931.       7909.      8763.       8897.       9153.
LONG TERM DEBT                       25451.     33622.      40183.      40838.      38908.     38750.      38590.
EQUITY
GOVERNMENT CAPITAL                  6633.      6633.       6633.       6633.       6633.      6633.       6633.                            H
CAPITAL RESERVE                      930.       1080.      2347.       3615.       5605.      8449.       11295.
RETAINED EARNINGS                  42335.     51864.      57671.      61818.     63889.      66335.      69662.
49898.     59577.      66651.      72066.     76127.      81417.      87590.                            0
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         82166.     99798.    113765.    120813.    123798.        129064.    135334.
_    _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  _-- -
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - _ _-__ _ _-_-_-__ _ _-__ _ _ _



SUDAN - SEA PORTS CORPORATION
STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS AND CAPITAL RESERVE
(LS '000)
YEAR FNDING tJUNE 30
1981        1982        1983        1984         1985        198G         1987
RETAINED EARNINGS
OPENING BALANCE                           29445.      42335.       51864.      57671.      61818.       63889.       66335.
ADD PROFII FOR YEAR                       14767.       12174.      10053.       8748.        7664.       9097.       10244.
44212.      54508.      61917.       66419.      69482.      72986.       76579.
DEDUCT
INTEREST ON CAPITAL                        1849.       2495.        2979.       3333.       3603.        3806.        4071.                       Un
TRANSFER TO CAPITAL RESERVE                  28.         150.       1267.       1268.        1990.       2844.        2846.
1877.       2645.       4246.       4601.        5593.       6650.        6917.
CLOSING BALANCF                           42335.      51864.       57671.      61818.      63889.       66335.       69662.
CAPITAL RFSERVE
OPENING BALANCE                             902.         930.       1080.       2347.        3615.       5605.        8449.
TRANSFER FROM RETAINED EARNINGS              28.         150.       1267.       i268.        1990.       2844.        2846.
CLOSING BALANCE                             930.        1080.       2347.       3615.        5605.       8449.       11295.
H
H
(D



- 57 -
SUDAN                            TABLE 8
SEA PORTS CORPORATION
FINANCIAL INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(LSD '000)
OPERATING SURPLUS
Year Ended     Capital        With       Without                 Net Cash
June 30        Costs        Project     Project      Net          Flow
1982         4,747         19,534      19,028         506     ( 4,241)
1983         6,557         19,121      18,083       1,038     ( 5,519)
1984         2,531         18,414      17,317       1,097     ( 1,434)
1985           716         17,413      15,711       1,702         986
1986         5,600         19,330      17,541       1,789     ( 3,811)
1987         3,200         20,843      18,966       1,877     ( 1,323)
1988           -           21,852      19,906       1,946       1,946
1989           -           23,917      21,896      2,021        2,021
1990           -           23,917      21,822      2,095        2,095
1991           -           25,032      22,859      2,173        2,173
1992           -           25,984      23,732       2,252       2,252
1993           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
1994           -           25,984      23,732       2,252       2,252
1995           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
1996           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
1997           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
1998           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
1999           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
2000           -           25,984      23,732      2,252        2,252
2001           -           25,984      23,732      2,252       2,252
2002        ( 1,679)       25,984      23,732      2,252        3,931
21,672       495,197     454,181     41,016      19,344
Financial Internal Rate of Return = 7.65%.



- 58 -
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A PORT PROJECT
Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in Sudan
Credit/                      Amount
Year        Loan                     (USS million)                                                                                                    Status
1958       Loan                          39.0               (i)  the acquisition and operation of diesel locomotives and rolling                      SatisFactorily
202-SU                                                 stock;                                                                              completed in
(ii)  the improvement, modernization and expansion of various railway                      1964
facilities, including repair shops, workshops, marshalling yarda,
station loops and signalling equipment;
(iii)  the relaying with 75-pound rail of approximately 400 km of the
Sennar-Haiya line and the use of the rails and other salvageable
material taken up From such line in carrying out items (iv) and (v)
below;
(iv)  the completion of construction of the Western extension, from
Babanuse to Nyala, and installation of necessary operating facilities;
(v)  the construction of the Southern extension, from Babanusa to Wau,
and installation of necessary operating facilities;
(vi)  the modernization and expansion of Port Sudan by the construction of
two cargo berth8 for ocean-going vessels, installation of necessary
operating facilities and dredging for a third berth; and
Cvii)  the acquisition of passenger and cargo barges, diesel engines and
equipment and materials for the improvement and modernization of
river transport services.
1965       Loan                          31.0               (i)  the procurement of mainline and shunting diesel locomotives an of                    Satisfactorily
440-SU                                                diesel railcar sets;                                                                 Completed in
(ii)  the procurement, construction, and improvement of rolling stDck;                     1972
(iii)  the relaying with 90-pound rails of about 500 km of the Khartoum
Atbara-Port Sudan line;
(iv)  the acquisition of one dredger, and of equipment and materials for
the improvement of river transport services; and
(v)  the completion of two cargo berths and the construction of a cargo
shed at Port Sudan, and the procurement of tugs, barges, cranes
and cargo-handling equipment.
1972       Credit                         7.0               (i)  consulting services to the Department of Roads for:                                  Satisfactorily
331-SU                                                a)  improving its organization and operations (with emphasis on                      completed
highway betterment and maintenance);                                           June 1980
b)  identifying high priority road construction projects; and
c)  carrying out feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads
identified under b) above, followed by detailed engineering of
about 350 km of the highest priority roads;
(ii)  purchase of spare parts for highway mintenance, workshop and labora-
tory equipment, new equipment in these categories with related spare
parts; and materials and supplies for highway betterment works and
workshop construction; and
(iii)  technical assistance to thwe Ministry of Transport in transport planning
and coordination, as well as staff training.
1973       Credit                        24.0               Ci)  financing of Sudan Railways Corporation's investment program up to                   Satisfactorily
457-SU                                                1975, including:                                                                     completed
a)  for the railway: track renewal, structures and communications,                  September 30,
locomotives and rolling stock, and a central training school;
b)  for Port Sudan: cargo-handling equipment, facilities and
structures, and technical assistance;
(ii)  equipment and technical assistance for the River Trasnport Corporation;
(iii)  preinvestment studies for future airport development; and
(iv)  training for the staff of the Auditior General.
1976       Credit                         4.0                     Technical assistance to increase the capacity of Sudanese institutions              In progress,
614-SU                                                to execute preinvestment work in all sectors.                                        completion
expected in
in December
1981
1976       Loan                          20.0               (i)  the construction of two regional airports, at Wau and Port Sudan,                    Unsatisfactory.
1287-SU/                                              and upgrading of Juba and Malakal Airports;                                          Was closed
Credit                         9.0              (ii)  supervision of the construction/reconstruction  in (i) above;                        September 1981
643-SU                                         (iii)  the provision of maintenance, and navigational and communications
equipment to the project airports; and
(iv)  technical assistance and staff training for the Civil Aviation
Department.
1977       Credit 727-SU/                 8.0               (i)  completion of training school;                                                       In progress.
Loan 1467- SU                 12.0              (ii)  construction of diesel and wagon workshops;                                          completion
(iii)  flood protection works;                                                             expected in
(iv)  track upgrading of about 850 k-n; and                                               December 1982
(v)   provision of locomotives and wagons, track maintenance,  workshop,
and signalling and communications equipment.
1978       Credit                        22.0               (i)  cargo handling equipment;                                                            In progress,
781-SU                                          (ii)  emergency service and pollution control equipment;                                  completion
(iii)  maintenance and repair equipment;                                                   expected in
(iv)  harbor craft;                                                                       March 1982
(v)  civil works;
(vi)  maintenance shop equipment;
(vii)  technical assistance.
1979       Credit                        41.0               (i)  construction of a two-lane bituninous surfaced road;                                 In progress,
882-SU                                          (ii)  detailed engineering;                                                                completion
(iii)  assistance in strengthening Roads Department in Southern Region.                    expected in
December 1984
July 1981



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A PORT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.   "Private Electrical Power Generation Works" - Livesey & Henderson 1977
(Two Volumes)
2.   "Economic and Traffic Data" - Livesey & Henderson 1980
3.   "Port Suakin Feasibility Study" - RRI 1980
a) Grain Silo Upgrading - Livesey & Henderson 1977
b) Main Civil Works - Livesey & Henderson 1977
4.   "Port Suakin Pre-appraisal Report" - KfW 1981
5.   Detailed Project Cost Estimates
6.   Details of Economic Evaluation
7.   Details of Financial Projections (Computer Runs)
8.   Financial Internal Rate of Return (Computer Runs)



I                                                                                                                                                                    I



SUDAN                                    I
MAIN                                                             F
TRANSPORTATION                                              -                                  -             -
INFRASTRUC-TURE                                   i
/-               N~~~~~-
N O R THE R 'iI
P-e  Rood,       o                       Nj                          I                                                                          4
=   -d, .,,d T-l,,s  All;*Su                                             1                                                 X              ,   
wY..t. R-oJ, B-    rvut n npld       f  /,j                                                        R     r                    j-       
d~~oo,o dhAoF
---- RansP m-dor-!-,                                                                                                               m     r
J.
E.-tg -nd an--d IigonSLb--C            QlKARCU   PI IYIA                                                \t                             
- .d           ' ,                  D      A   R         F     U   Rc(
V-1~~~~~~~K
----P ~j G L I C                                    Kha          RINAL I f          i
\ ~~~~~~~~s                               o                 -     -               cr \;qt Tl  H  E  R  ,1 1/ 
Z  A   I  R   FA                                                                           -
A Fr R F                 U
4                                                           '2 --~  N--  -i-   -    
6,,N,,N,,,,/,,,,/S,,,,  C              ""   'N    L<  --                                     c
)           !    If _                                               j                     /.            (  kP:1  
.~ ~     ~~       EX ----   B< B                                                                            __A                     L-



I           I



-   {PL t-2LE  '  - 2 ,'   _ _                                   _                                                              tBRD 13081R2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B D10BR
J S ................. r....................... h                                                           nbrSUDol sthss   l ,n  AN o h ol <eed
- r   - > ,   ;lz , a;seel/ n oehe Ex rausvea cmort u>pmFl5motsrSSECOND PORT PROJECT - PORT SUDAN
CHtcl   2    .                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING  lAYOUT AND  PROPOSED  IMPROVEMENTS
r --                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED IMAPROVEMENT5
_e                          -  hw;-TE S   -    ~~~~~   le[i -t :C " sCutoms Area          rlWor xtnion
S  .  t l n _,P J                                                                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ St.ge I l - Deck E.fensio.
EllEtAR-  f  -,                                                                           L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.dern=iz0io - Groin Silo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Z;^                                                                          1\z_-1IpoemnsUder  Fi,st  Port  Project
r~~~~~~~~~~        5        Uu. . l..(
Et4E~~~~ ----    ----
gSX  eS2X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P



