FILE COPY-
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No, 113a-EC
APPRAISAL OF THE
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECUADOR
June 6, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubished, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accay or completenes of th report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 - Sucres (SI) 25
Sucres (S/)1=US$0.04
WEIGHTS AND MSAUES
1 kilometer (kin)                  =    0.62 miles
1 millimeter (mm)                  -    0.039 inch
1 meter (a)                        -    3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha) = lO,OOQ m2         -   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (k-) - 100 ha  *   0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                 -    1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)       -    810 acre feet
1 metric ton (m/ton)               3    2,205 lb
1 kilogram (kg)                    .    2.2 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATICNS
INERHI   - Ecuadorian Institute for Hydraulic Resources
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos
MAG      - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
1 nisterio de Agricultura y Ganaderfa
ENF     N- ational Developuent Bank
Banco Nacional de Fomento
IERAC    - Institute for Agrarian Reform and Colonization
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacidn
INIAP    - National Agricultural Research Institute
Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias
FECOPAK  - Federation of Agricultural and !'rketing Cooperatives
Federacio" de Cooperativas Agropecuarias y de Mercadeo
APU      - Agriculture Production Unit
NF       - Ministry of Finance
Ministerio de Finanzas
COVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ECUADOR
AN APPRAISAL OF THE MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . ........................... .    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................              ......        1
II.    BACKGROUND   ................              ......................                 1
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ...................**. ...............                          3
General  ................  e.*.........             O...........*.* ........  3
Population  and Land Tenure  .....................                        4
Agricultural Production                    ........................       5
Institutional Assistance                     .......................      6
Transportation  .....*********.****.*..  **** *** **                      6
Marketing  ........  00............................... 
IV.    THE PROJECT .................                               - .... ooo.o          7
Description  ..o.........oo.*.........0...0................               7
Project Works  .                                                          8
Water Supply,  Demand,  Quality and Rights  .... o.o                     10
Engineering Design  .......0........ ...............                     11
Adjustments  of Farm Boundaries  ... o.............                     12
Cost Estimates  ..             *........    ***   .............-         12
Financing  ....... o- - -                  .....................        13
rProcurement  O............. .................. ..0 ....                14
Disbursement  ....             ......o.......  .         ..15
Accounts and Audit  ....    ................ -.........                  15
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........                  ..o.. o........        15
Executing Agency  ..... .... ...... 0 - ..... . .....                    15
Project Organization  .00. * . 0.-.6.0.0.   . .... ..    ... . . . . . . ..  17
Consultant  Services  ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .   .  19
Implementation  of Project Works  ......  ..... .....                    19
Implementation  of Agricultural Development  .....                      20
Operation and Maintenance  .....0..0...             ..0........         22
Project  Charges  ... o ...... . .....     . . . ......                  22
This report is based on the findings of a mission in October, 1972 to
Ecuador composed of W.A. Lucas and C.G. Moret of IDA, and T.J. Bredero,
consultant  to IDA.



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES
AND FARM INCOME .......... ...........................   23
Production .............. . . . .... . * .......   23
Agricultural Plan ............ ........ * ......   25
Market Prospects ....... . . . ......... * .25
Prices    ................    26
Farm Income ................                        26
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................  27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................  28



ANNEXES
1.   Description of Project Area
2.   Scope of the Project
A.   Selection and Formulation
B.   Project Description
3.   Water Supply, Demand, Qualffy and Rights
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
6.   Consultant Services
A.   Implementation of Milagro Irrigation Project
LB.   Preparation of a Feasibility Study for Project Extension
7.   Operation and Maintenance
8.   Agricultural Production, Costs and Farm Budgets
9.   Marketing
10.   Economic Analysis
Chart No. 7568 - Proposed Project Organization
Chart No. 7273 - Construction and Development Schedule
Map IBRD 10278






ECUADOR
MILAGRO ILRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         This report appraises a project for integrated irrigation develop-
ment in the Milagro area in the Guayas river basin. The project would in-
crease agricultural production in an area of 7,000 ha by providing irrigation
for a second crop during the dry season each year. The total value of produc-
tion would also be Increased by converting the existing subsistence-type
agriculture to higher value crops for import substitution and export. The
project would also include the necessary agricultural supporting services to
assist farmers in adopting the new cropping patterns and developing market
outlets. The project would be the first Bank Group assisted irrigation
development in Ecuador and its fourth operation in the agricultural sector.
In 1967 the Bank extended a loan of US$4.0 million (501-EC) for agricultural
credit for ranch development and beef production. Subsequently two IDA credits
totaling US$11.5 million were approved in January 1970 (173-EC) and December
1970 (222-EC) for expansion of the original project to assist about 800
ranches and dairy farms. Disbursements on the two former operations are
almost completed; progress on the third operation (222-EC) is somewhat behind
schedule due to institutional changes.
ii.        Agriculture accounts for about one-third of the GDP in Ecuador and
increases in production since 1960 have barely kept pace with population
growth. The demand for imported agricultural products has increased during
the past decade while agricultural exports, which make up 90% of total ex-
ports, have grown only moderately during this period. The poor performance
in the agricultural sector has perpetuated the serious conditions of rural
poverty and low income for smallholders. With the prospect of additional
income from oil exports and improvement of both its financial and credit
positions, Government is undertaking remedial measures to improve agricultural
production and the economic conditions of the rural population. Irrigation
has been assigned a high priority in this program and a number of projects
are under study, with a substantial potential to increase production over the
existing rain-fed farming. Other means being considered for improvement of
rural conditions are land reform, formation of cooperatives, increased agri-
cultural credit, improved supporting services and availability of inputs,
all of which contribute to integrated development. There is an urgent need
to increase food production and crops for import substitution such as oil-
seeds, cotton and tobacco. Small and medium-sized farms, especially, are
in need of these integrated services and the capability of Government agencies
to manage these programs must be rapidly improved.
iii.       Traditionally the country has depended on agriculture in the central
highlands for food production, which includes several small irrigation proj-
ects. Domestic demands have outgrown the productive capacity of this region,
which is also constrained by severe minifundia and over-population. This
has forced Government to turn to the western lowlands for new project devel-
opment, which in the past have mainly been used to produce livestock and
export crops, such as sugar and bananas, on large private estates. This re-
gion has exceptionally favorable conditions for agricultural production,



- ii -
particularly in the provinces of Guayas and El Oro, where climate, soils and
available water supplies combine to produce these conditions. A comprehensive
survey of the Guayas river basin has shown that more than 200,000 ha could be
developed for double cropping under irrigation, making it one of the best
potential areas in the country for increasing production of both export and
import substitution crops.  Two projects have been selected for initial de-
velopment in the basin; these are Babanoyo (11,000 ha) for rice production
and Milagro (7,000 ha) mainly for oil seeds, sugarcane, bananas and cacao.
IDB has been requested to assist with Babahoyo and the Bank Group with
Milagro. The proposed project would provide a modern irrigation and drainage
system for 7,000 ha, together with service roads and on-farm development,
including land clearing and leveling for the benefit of 825 farmers, of which
about two thirds have small farms of less than 10 ha. The project would also
include agricultural supporting services, extension assistance, credit, stor-
age, transport, marketing, seed production and realignment of farm boundaries
to obtain an orderly layout of the irrigation systems. Provision for assist-
ance in carrying out a feasibility study for future extension of the project
would also be included. A land reform program, started in 1964, is nearly
completed in the project area. The main objectives of the project would be
production by providing irrigation for a second crop during the
dry season, to convert the existing subsistence type agriculture (principally
mixed groves of banana, cacao, coffee and other tropical tree crops) to high
value crops for export (bananas, cacao, sugar) or import substitution (oil-
seeds, rice, maize), to provide improved services to the farmers to assist
them in making this conversion and increase production and to improve the
marketing and price structure such that farmers would receive a more equit-
able income from their production.
iv.        Thle estimated project cost is US$10.2 million, with a foreign ex-
change component of US$5.3 million, including contingencies, or 51% of the
total. The czrecit would be for UIS$5.5 million which, in addition to covering
foreign exchange costs, would provide local currency financing of US$0.2
million for local contracting of topographic, land use and cadastral surveys
for the feasibility st-udy. The balance of the project costs, equivalent to
U3S 4.7 million, wouiei be financed by Government. Out of the foreign exchange
component of US$5.3 million about US$2.9 million would be put out to inter-
natioaal competitive bidding for the purchase of equipment. The balance con-
sists of US$0.9 million for local purchase of equipment and materials and
sapplies for eivil works, USS0.8 million for consultant services and US$0.7
ir13.)2On for contingencies
VI         The Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos (INERHI) would
have responsibility to implement both the construction and the agricultural
development phases of the project. The construction of the main works,
including on-farm development, would be carried out directly by INERHI while
the agricultural development would be implemented by means of operating
agreements with the several Government agencies who have primary responsibi-
lity in the country for agricultural production, credit, extension, marketing,
formation of cooperatives, seed production, research and land reform. These
agencies would participate in the project in varying degrees through the



- iii -
administrative and technical services established and managed by INERHI for
the project. INERHI would coordinate and ensure the contribution of all
agencies as required to implement a program of integrated development which
would meet the needs of the farmers for technical, managerial and financial
assistance. Consultant services would be provided, both for implementation
of the project and for the feasibility study, in fields where INERHI has
insufficient experience.
vi.        At full development in 1983 (year 11), following completion of
construction in 1978 (year 6), the net value of production at economic prices
would be about US$3.1 million, as compared to an estimated value of US$1.0
million without the project. Net incremental annual family income is estimated
at US$1,470, US$2,610 and US$4,660, for small, medium and large farms re-
spectively, over present levels of US$320, US$1,200 and US$2,000. Double
cropping with annual crops on about 50% of the area, with irrigation during
the dry season, would almost eliminate seasonal unemployment. Family labor
would be fully utilized and the project would absorb hired labor equivalent
to about 1,500 man-years annually. With the exception of vegetables, project
production would be either for export (sugar, bananas, cocoa) or import
substitution (oilseeds, cereals). At full development, savings plus earnings
in foreign exchange due to the project would amount to about US$3.0 million.
With costs and benefits discounted over a 40-year period, the economic rate
of return would be 16%. The indirect benefits to the commercial sector of
the Milagro district would provide added impetus to the economic growth which
has begun during the past four years.
vii.       With appropriate assurances obtained during negotiations, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.5 million. The borrower would
be the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, with INERHI as the executing
agency.






ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Government of Ecuador has requested IDA assistance in financing
further development of the Milagro Irrigation Project, located in the Province
of Guayas in the southwestern part of the country. This would be the fourth
Bank Group operation in Ecuador in the agricultural sector, the first being
a Bank loan of US$4.0 million for agricultural credit for ranch development
and beef production (501-EC) signed in June 1967. Subsequently, two IDA
credits, 173-EC, signed in January 1970 and 222-EC, signed in December 1970,
for a total of US$11.5 million, provided additional credit assistance to
expand the original project to benefit about 800 beef ranches and dairy farms.
Progress on these projects has been good, with satisfactory performance on
the Government side and a favorable response by the ranchers. Disbursements
on the two former operations are almost completed; progress on the third
operation (222-EC) is somewhat behind schedule due to institutional changes.
The proposed project would be the first in the country to receive IDA assist-
ance for irrigation development.
1.02       The proposed project is part of a comprehensive plan to develop the
land and water resources of the Guayas river basin, an area which has a strong
potential for agricultural development and to which the Government has assigned
high priority. Present policy is to initiate development with small projects
and Milagro would be one of the first to be undertaken. The project would
consist of integrated development for 7,000 ha including irrigation and drainage
systems, on-farm development, roads, agricultural supporting services, exten-
sion assistance, credit, storage, marketing, seed production and realignment
of farm boundaries. The existing land tenure pattern in the project area,
which is mainly cultivated for one crop each year under rainfed conditions,
is the result of an agrarian reform program carried out by the Government
beginning in 1964.
1.03       Initial feasibility studies for the project were carried out by a
private consulting firm, Chas T. Main, Int., of Boston, Mass., during 1965-67.
This study was financed by USAID. Subsequently the Government, with the
assistance of FAO/IBRD CP on two separate missions, reformulated the project
and prepared a new feasibility study. This study, completed in September
1971, forms the basis for the appraisal covered by this report.
1.04       This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited the area in October 1972. The mission included Messrs. W.A. Lucas,
C.G. Moret (IDA) and T. J. Bredero (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01       Ecuador is entering into the phase of developing the oil industry
which, through increasing foreign exchange earnings, should lead the economy
into a faster and more balanced growth by enabling the Government to increase



its current expenditures and investments. By 1977, oil is expected to account
for more than 50% of total exports.
2.02       The potential agricultural area of Ecuador is roughly estimated at
about 8.5 million ha, of which only 50% is presently used. Ecuador can be
divided into three natural regions: the coastal lands (Costa), where the ex-
port oriented crops are grown; the central highlands (Sierra), which provides
most of the country's domestic food supply and where the demographic pressure
is highest; and the eastern lowlands (Oriente), a sparsely inhabited hinter-'
land where the important petroleum deposits have been discovered and whose
agricultural potential, although rather unknown, seems most suitable for live-
stock. Leaving aside the undefined possibilities of the Oriente, the increase
of agricultural production in the Sierra should be based mostly on correcting
the disequilibrium between population and land and introduciag agricultural
improvements, while in the Costa, general estimates indicate that there is a
potential for developing irrigation schemes on some 0.6 million ha.
2.03       Agriculture contributed about 31% of GDP in 1971, providing a
livelihood for 55% of the total population, occupying 61% of the total labor
force and accounting for about 90% of the value of commodity exports. The
main export crops, the value of which totaled US$175 million in 1969, are
bananas, coffee, cacao and sugar. Bananas continue as the main export crop,
reaching an annual value of US$100 million during the period 1966-69. Agricul-
tural products represent about 20% of total imports but have increased rapidly
in recent years. These imports include mainly wheat, tallow, soybeans and
tobacco. While in recent years the economy has grown at about 7% p.a., agri-
cultural growth has been considerably lower, barely keeping pace with that
of the rural population. With population growing at 3.5% a year, and in-
comes going up, the demand for food will increase rapidly in the decade
ahead. Meat, milk, fruit, vegetables, rice, maize, and vegetable oils and
oilseed byproducts will all face a strong internal demand, and domestic pro-
duction will have to be increased rapidly to avoid sharp rises in the import
bill for food.
2.04       In 1972 the total population of the country was estimated at 6.5
million, of which 4.0 million were in the rural sector. This sector is
characterized by acute poverty and unemployment, especially in the central
highlands. Development in the coastal area and opening up the Oriente are
expected to increase migration which would ease the situation in the Sierra
and absorb part of the expanding labor supply. This is one of the important
reasons for proceeding with agricultural development in the coastal region
as rapidly as practicable.
2.05       A major constraint for better performance in the agricultural sec-
tor is the uneven distribution of land ownership, with the immediate conse-
quence of lack of capitalization and, on the social side, a severely distorted
income distribution. About 75% of farms are less than 5 ha, accounting for
10% of the total farm land; at the scale's opposite end, 1.5% of the farms
are larger than 100 ha and represent 47% of the total. The lowest decile
of rural population earns about 2% of agricultural income, while the top
decile accounts for about 58%.



- 3 -
2.06       Important goals of Government's agricultural policy are agrarian
reform, colonization, and irrigation development. The Instituto Ecuatoriano
de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion (IERAC) has primary responsibility for
agrarian reform. By 1970, IERAC had, since its creation in 1964, made about
570,000 ha available to some 40,000 families. About 415,000 ha had been
colonized and alloted to some 12,000 families and 155,000 ha had been redis-
tributed to some 28,000 families. While the colonization program has achieved
moderately positive results, on the agrarian reform side achievements have
fallen short and, in general, the farmers' situation is not much better after
agrarian reform than before. The major reason for this has been the lack of
Government budgetary support, together with a too wide scope of IERAC's ac-
tivities. The Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos (INERHI) is the
agency responsible for irrigation development. At present INERHI is operating
12 irrigation districts with an irrigated area of about 20,000 ha. In addition
other agencies, mainly Government provincial offices, have constructed and
are operating five small projects serving about 5,000 ha. INERHI is engaged
in planning and construction on 8 other projects which ultimately will command
about 25,000 ha. Most of these projects are located in the Sierra where a
high priority for rehabilitation and extension of existing projects has been
assigned on social grounds rather than for economic reasons. These projects,
however, represent a small part of the estimated potential area in the country,
which would be suitable for developing the land and water resources. The
coastal area has the best potential for large projects with better economic
prospects. The Milagro project would be one of the first to be undertaken in
this area and an important first step in eventual development of the extensive
irrigation potential in the Guayas river basin.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01       The project area is located in the western part of Ecuador in the
tropical coastal zone, about 40 km east of the City of Guayaquil. The area
proposed for development lies adjacent to the Rio Milagro and the Rio Chimbo,
which are tributaries to the Rio Guayas, and within the Province of Guayas
(Map No. 10278). Topography in the area is uniform which makes the land
suitable for irrigation and on-farm development. The climate is tropical
and is characterized by a wet season from mid-December to mid-May and a dry
season during the remainder of the year. Annual rainfall during recent years
has averaged 1,000 mm, with less than 100 mm during the dry season. Humidity
is high, averaging over 80% throughout the year, and temperatures range from
23'C in July to 26'C in March. Cloud overcast occurs more than 75% of the
daylight hours and wind velocities are low.
3.02       The soils in the project area are mainly recent alluvium and strati-
fied, ranging from medium textured loams and silt loams to moderately coarse
textured sandy loams. They are well adapted to cultivation of a wide range
of crops under irrigation. Addittonal information on conditions in the
project area are presented in Annex 1.



-4-
Population and Land Tenure
3.03       The rural population in the project area is estimated at 6,000
persons. This does not include the City of Milagro (just outside the area
with a population or about 40,000) or the Village of Naranjito, on the south
boundary of the project area. Two small villages, Mariscal Sucre and Venecia,
are located within the area. The 1962 census in the Canton of Milagro gave
a total population of 62,000, which would benefit indirectly from the project.
I- is evident that the number of people in the general area has increased
rapidly in recent years, due in part to immigration following initiation of
the land reform program in 1964 and improvement of the highway to Guayaquil
and the new bridge across the Guayas river. A recent survey revealed thal:
about 25% of the present population were immigrants and that approximately
50% of these came from the mountainous region, which contributes to relieving
land pressure in the Sierra. The area is almost totally dependent on agri-
culture and the two large sugar plantations, San Carlos (15,000 ha) on the
south boundary and Valdez (7,000 ha) on the west boundary, offer sizeable
employment opportunities. Unemployment does not appear to be a critical
problem in the area; however, the seasonal work peaks create underemployment
during the off-season. One indication of the labor situation is that farm
workers or owners from the high valleys in the Andes find employment in the
Milagro area during seasons of peak employment. There is some competition
on wage rates between the sugar estates and private farmers which at times
makes it difficult for the latter to find laborers on a temporary basis.
3.04       The land tenure pattern in the project area is the result of unre-
gulated use and acquisition which occurred over a period of more than 20 years.
The 825 farms in the project were fo!merly part of four large haciendas and
the present owners occupied the land as renters, tenants, squatters, and, in
some cases, by purchase from former owners. In 1964 IERAC began a program to
expropriate these lands, establish farm boundaries on the basis of existing
use and occupancy and issue land titles to the farmers. This was one of the
first programs to be undertaken by IERAC under the new law which gave the
agency power to give workers title to the lands they cultivated, to colonize
public domain and to expropriate under-used private lands and settle landless
families. A small part of the expropriated land, less than 10%, was settled
by landless families on tracts of one to two hectares. The new owners were
required to pay for the land over a period of years and this resulted in
exchanges which reduced the size of some farms and increased the size of others.
iln a sense land reform in the area has consisted of legalizing existing occu-
pancy rather than expropriation and redistribution. Further reform to
rationalize farm sizes would be strongly resisted by present owners who won
title to their land following a long period of controversy. About 80% have
paid for their land and received titles and the balance are expected to com-
plete their payments and receive titles within the next five years.
3.05       This tenancy pattern, as shown in the following table, would not
seriously constrain production on the project, since 83% of the project area
is in farms ranging from 5 to 50 ha, which are economically viable for ir-
rigat±on and application of improved technology. Only 8% is in farms less



- 5 -
than 5 ha and 9% in farms of more than 50 ha. Smallholders would gain
increased benefits by concentrating on high value crops, such as vegetables,
and from the availability of adequate supporting services.
Number of                      Total           Average
Farm Size              Farmers       Net ha's       Area %          farm size
Less than  5 ha         280             560             8.0            2.0
5    -    10 ha         275           1,560            22.3            5.7
10   -    20 ha         165           1,980            28.3           12.0
20   -    50 ha          95           2,250            32.1           23.7
More than 50 ha          10              650            9.3           65.0
Total            825            7,000           100.0
Agricultural Production
3.06       Agricultural production in the area at present, even with the favor-
able conditions of soil and climate and irrigation on roughly 1,200 ha, remains
at a low level and none of the farms, with the exception of some banana growers
established on what formerly was an estate plantation, operates on a truly
commercial scale. This is due, in part, to the fact that these farmers have
become truly independent owners only in recent years and have not acquired
the managerial competence to develop the resources available to them. Another
factor is the limited income and availability of capital to modernize their
operations and participate in the commercial economy to a degree that would
produce surplus income for investment in farm development. The marketing
structure and low level of prices severely restricts the use of inputs and
machinery, transport and storage facilities and the growing of cash crops in
response to the market demand. Agricultural extension services for farm
management planning are not available and most of the farmers are reluctant
to use the limited credit available. This further restricts the use of ferti-
lizers, improved varieties, machinery and chemical disease and pest control,
which results in low quality and yields. Most farms of all sizes are dependent
on family labor, as the farmers cannot afford the hired labor rates paid by
the sugar estates, which is an added constraint to using all the land available
for its most productive purposes.
3.07       Ninety percent of the project area is cultivated at present, how-
ever, the present cropping patterns determine the low productivity of most
farms. About 50% of the area, irrespective of farm size, is covered with
"finca", a perennial tree crop mixture of coffee, cocoa, citrus, bananas,
plantains and other fruit trees with an estimated annual gross value of
about US$40/ha. On 30% of the area low yielding sugarcane, ratooning for
20 years or longer, is grown mainly for the production of 'panela' (brown
sugar loaves) with a gross value of about US$180/ha. At present none of
the farmers produce sugarcane under contract for the San Carlos and Valdez
sugar companies. On about 10 percent of the area, bananas are grown as an
independent crop, mostly Gros Michel variety for local consumption. The
exportable Cavendish varieties are grown only on about 500 ha. The gross
value obtained for Cavendish is estimated at US$500/ha, compared to US$200/ha



- 6-
for Gros Miche:L. Ten percent of the area is under fallow and natural pastures
or is utilized for the cultivation of maize and rice, mainly used for domestic
or ariimal consumption. The gross value of these crops are estimated at US$40
to US$50/ha.  The average value of production in the area, taking into account
all crops, ranges from US$70 to US$110 per hectare.
3.03      Reliable data on the area cropped to specific crops and on yields
and value is not available for most of the project area.  On the basis of the
estimates presented in paragraph 3.07, the gross value of present production,
at curre-nt domestic prices, has been estimated at US$0.9 million.
lnis_~itutional Assistance
3.09      Technical assistance by Government agencies to farmers on production,
marketing and credit is almost non-existent in the project area.  INEHII
maintains a small office in Milagro primarily to control water distribution
to San Carlos, Valdez and the existing project. A small amount of maintenance
work is performed on the headworks and main canal by INEPII but in the exist-
ing project the farmers provide a minimum amount of maintenance on the system.
The Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) maintains a branch office in Guayaquil,
however, the records indicate that no loans have been made in the area during
the past three years. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, formerly of
Production, apparently is unable to provide extension services and farmers
receive very little assistance on farm planning and production. The Instituto
Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (INIAP) research station at Boliche
has provided limited amounts of improved seed. Data on research and training
have limited availabili.y. Due to its own organizational and budgetary problems,
the follow-up of the Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion
IUERAC) on the agrarian reform and colonization programs has been weak.  The
farners receive a minimum of assistance on marketing, transport or storage.
The situation described above is the reason the project has been planned as an
integrated development whereby the essential services will be provided by means
of agreements between INEPII and the other agencies, with INERHI having the
primary responsibility to ensure that assistance to the farmers is coordinated
and forthcoming (para 5.03). Further, the project includes the means to pro-
vi de a part of these services such that it will not be entirely dependent on
the limited resources of Government agencies.
Transportation
3.10       A paved highway from Milagro to Guayaquil provides the project with
easy access to the main port and largest city in Ecuador. Construction of
the highway bridge across the Guayas river at Guayaquil has been a major fac-
tor in opening up the area east of the river to development and the Milagro
area is favorably located to take advantage of this improved access to the
Guayaquil market and port facilities. From Milagro, paved highways extend
into the area to Mariscal Sucre and Naranjito, and interconnecting gravel
surfaced roads presently serve most farms in the area. The proposed project
would provide additional service roads so that every farm would have access
to an all-weather road. The railroad from Guayaquil to Quito parallels the
south boundary of the project area, with a main station at Naranjito.



-7-
Marketing
3.11       Present production of bananas, cacao, coffee, panela (sugar) and
rice, in excess of subsistence requirements, is marketed through agents or
intermediaries in Milagro and Naranjito. Maize is mostly consumed on the
farm. Due to lack of transport, the farmers sell to the intermediaries at
the farmgate for prices which average one third to one half of the demand
price at the processing plant, rice-mill or wholesalers. Some of these agents
provide credit and the farmer has little choice but to accept the price
offered, which virtually eliminates any margin of profit. A strong demand
exists in the internal market for soybeans, groundnuts, maize and rice and
the limited production of these crops that is marketed goes to processing
plants in Guayaquil or to rice-mills in the area. The demand for bananas
and cacao of suitable quality for export is good. The Valdez Sugar Company
has indicated it has mill capacity and a market for the production of sugarcane
from about 1,400 additional hectares. Guayaquil with a population of 800,000
offers an expanding market for vegetables and fruits. Most of the land
immediately adjacent to Guayaquil is poorly drained and affected by a high
groundwater level, which make it unsuitable for agriculture, with the possible
exception of rice and pasture. The production of fruits and vegetables in
the area is not highly developed and the effective demand, especially on a
seasonal basis, exceeds the supply. The market prospects are, therefore,
good for all crops which could be grown on the project and the real problem
is that the farmers do not have access to these markets. This is a critical
factor in breaking the chain which now limits nearly all the farmers to an
uneconomic level.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01       The project would consist of integrated irrigation and agricultural
development of 7QQ0 ha in the Milagro area. The area is partially irrigated
at present (1,200 ha) but production is mainly dependent on rainfed cropping
during the wet season and providing irrigation for the entire area during
the dry season would greatly increase the benefits to be realized from the
land. About 825 farmers, mostly smallholders now operating at a marginal level,
would benefit from the project.  The principal objectives of the project
would be to increase the area in annual cash crops, such as oilseeds and
maize for import substitution, and to consolidate banana and sugarcane pro-
duction for export. The project would provide the necessary supporting serv-
ices and attempt to improve the marketing structure, with an increased return
to the farmers. INERHI, an autonomous Government agency, would be responsible
for implementing the project over a 5 year period and for operating and main-
taining it thereafter.
4.02       The project would include the following:



- 8 -
a)   rehabilitation of the existing main canal and intake structure;
b)   irrigation and drainage systems and roads to serve a net area
of 7,000 ha, with outlets to each of the 825 farms;
c)   on-farm development consisting of land clearing, land leveling,
farm ditches and drains;
d)   buildings to provide a new headquarters for project adminis-
tration, the production unit, and the extension service, and
warehouse and storage space and a maintenance shop;
e)   an agricultural production unit to provide production inputs,
marketing assistance, storage, transport, drying facilities
and machinery services;
f)   agricultural extension assistance;
g)   a basic supply of improved seeds and a seed multiplication
program;
h)   training of extension agents and farmers at the nearby
Boliche experimental station;
i)   consultant services to assist with construction, on-farm
development, irrigation practices and management of the
agricultural production unit; and
j)   a feasibility study for extension of the project into an
area of 10,000 to 15,000 ha west and south of the presently
proposed project area.
4.03       The project would also include a program for realignment of existing
farm boundaries in order to facilitate the layout and construction of the ir-
rigation and drainage systems and roads. Farmers would be compensated for
crop loss during the period their farms were being cleared and leveled and
the other works completed. Equipment for operation and maintenance, admin-
istration, supervision, the agricultural production unit, the extension serv-
ice and the feasibility study would be provided. Agricultural credit for
production inputs would be provided by the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF).
A more detailed description of project activities is presented in Annex 2.
Project Works
4.04       Headworks and Main Canal.  The existing natural intake and main
canal from the Rio Chimbo would serve the proposed project. The intake con-
sists of an earth dike which intercepts a part of the flow of the river. This
dike requires eonsiderable maintenance following flood periods (Annex 1,
para 6); however, the size of the project would not justify construction of



a permanent diversion dam and control structure. The main canal discharges
into the Estero Anapoyo which conveys water to the intakes for the San Carlos
Sugar Estate, the existing Milagro project and the Valdez Sugar Estate (Map
No. IBRD 10278). The project would include rehabilitation of the existing
main canal (3 km) and intake structure, including enlargement and installation
of new gates for a capacity of 7 m3/sec. From the intake at Estero Anapoyo
a new main canal would be constructed for a distance of about 8 km to serve
the intakes for the seven secondary canals which would provide the primary
supply of all parts of the project area. This portion of the main canal
would be concrete lined.
4.05       Secondary Canal Systems.  This sytem would consist of seven concrete
lined canals for a length of about 6i5 km, all feeding from the main canal
and conveying water to the tertiary systems, which would serve all farms in
the project area. These canals, running generally from east to west, would
be constructed partially in cut and partially in compacted embankment in
order to maintain water levels above the land surface and thus provide g 7ity
flow into the tertiary canals.
4.06       Tertiary Canal Systems.  These systems would serve and provide an
irrigation inlet into every farm in the project area. These canals, with
a length of about 220 km, would also be concrete lined and include the neces-
sary control and measurement structures. These systems would be designed to
provide a minimum supply to each farm of 50 liters/sec, which would be an
adequate head for irrigation.
4.07       Drainage Systems.  The drainage system would include about 53 km
of main and secondary drains, of which about 38 km would consist of rehabil-
itated natural drains (Esteros), and 285 km of tertiary drains to serve
each farm. The drainage systems would not only serve to remove excess rain-
fall during the wet season but also to control groundwater levels throughout
the year. Depth would range from one to two meters below ground surface,
depending on conditions, and the design capacity would be 5 liters/sec/ha.
4.08       On-Farm Development.  On-farm development would consist of land
clearing and leveling on each farm and the required farm ditches and drains.
Clearing in the project area is estimated at 4,000 ha which would mainly
consist of the mixed groves of perennial crops. It is estimated that 6,000
ha would require leveling to improve irrigation efficiency. A large part
of this would be done with land-planes to obtain a uniform surface. Due to
the generally uniform character of the land, cut and fill leveling would be
required on not more than about 1,000 ha in the eastern part where the natural
gradient is slightly greater. The on-farm development works would be carried
out in three project units of about 2,000 ha each, with all the work in one
-unit being completed during a 6-7 month dry period each year. This would
also include the tertiary irrigation and drainage systems and interior roads.
With completion of secondary systems the previous dry season this schedule
would require that all the land in a unit be taken out of production during
one dry season and most of the land could be replanted to annual crops dW -Lr,
the next wet season. This plan would reduce to a minimum the amount of com-
pensation paid to farmers for crop loss and would make it possible to complete
the works more rapidly and at the lowest cost.



- 10 -
4.09       Project Roads.  The project would include about 330 km cf gravel
surfaced roads, including service roads along all irrigation canals, so
that every farm would have access to an all weather road. Other unsurfaced
farm roads would be provided as required.
4.10       Other Project Facilities.  The project would provide for construction
of a project headquarters, near the village of Mariscal Sucre, which would
contain office space for administration, operation and maintenance, the ex-
tension service and the production unit, together with space for warehouse,
storage and a machinery maintenance shop. This facility would centralize
the supporting services and lead to more effective coordination.
Water Supply. Demand, Quality and Rights
4.11       Water Supply.  The project water supply would be by diversion from
the Rio Chimbo through existing works which also supply the San Carlos and
Valdez sugar plantations and the existing Milagro project of about 1,200 ha.
Previous investigations have confirmed that construction of a storage re-
servoir on the river, upstream from the project would not be feasible due
*;      cessive grade of the streambed, lack of suitable sites and the high
sediment discharge. The available diversion would, therefore, be dependent
on the normal flow of the river. The headwaters of the Rio Chimbo watershed
are on the higher elevations of the west slope of the Andes Cordillera and
a part of the flow is derived from the permanent snowfields of the Chimborazo
massif. This provides a relatively high average flow during the dry season,
which is also the period of greatest irrigation demand.
4.12       Discharge records for the period 1944-70 at the Bucay station, 20
kuxn upstream from the project intake, show an average monthly flow during
September aad December. normally the months of lowest flow, of about 14 m3/sec.
The maximum ;iemand for San Carlos (15,000 ha), Valdez (7,000 ha) and the
project, with a net area of 7,000 ha, would average about 14 m3/sec. An
analysis 'Lo- the period 1964.70, the most critical during the 25 year period,
is given in Annex 3, Table 1. IR this comparison of available discharge and
the project demand, taking into account the requirements of San Carlos,
Valdez, and additional small users, deficiencies in the order of 30% would
hw.-iw occurredo on the project during September and December during the years
1966, 1967, 196d, which was a period of prolonged drought throughout the
southlern hemisphere. This deficiency during one or two months in 3 years
oet of 25 would have llo significant effect on production and the water supply
for the project would be adequate.
4.13       Water Demand.  During the irrigation season, June to about mid-
December, effective rainfall is almost non-existent and irrigation of peren-
nial crops (bananas, cacao and sugarcane) would be required to maintain optimum
production as well as a full supply for annual crops, such as groundnuts,
soybeans, maize, rice and vegetables. The project water requirements (see
Annex 3, Table 2) were calculated on the basis of the proposed cropping
pattern and the average monthly evaporation as recorded during the past
five years from Type A evaporation pans. Coefficients (Hargreaves) were
applied for each crop, taking into account the stage of growth for each



- 11 -
month of the growing season to determine the crop water requirements. A
field efficiency of 60% and conveyance losses of 10% were assumed to cal-
culate the irrigation and diversion requirements. During the critical period
(September) the diversion requirements to meet project needs are estimated at
5.5 m3/sec, or about 40% of the normal flow of the river (14 m3/sec). These
requirements are relatively low, as compared to more arid parts of the world,
due to the high humidity and percent of cloud overcast, the constant but not
extremely high temperature and the absence of wind or rapid changes in air
movement. Total diversion requirements for the 7,000 ha project would be
about 70 Mm3 during the seven-month irrigation season. During the wet season
from December through May, rainfall averaging 1,000 mm is more than adequate
for producing a second crop of rice and maize, together with the perennial
crops.
4.14       Water Quality.  The water of the Rio Chimbo is of excellent quality
for irrigation and would impose no constraints on the proposed cropping pat-
tern. Tests during low flow periods show a total salt content of less than
300 ppm, d low sodium percentage, low sodium absorption ratio and no toxic
ingredients.
4.15       Water Rights.  The rights to diversion of the flow of the Rio Chimbo
for irrigation were adjudicated by the Provincial Court of Guayas in 1956,
whereby INERHI was awarded two thirds of the normal flow and San Carlos Sugar
Estate one third.  Under a contract with the Valdez Sugar Estate, INERHI was
obligated to deliver 2.5 m /sec through the Estero Anapoyo and thence to the
Valdez diversion on the Rio Milagro. Other users along the Rio Milagro had
rights to about 1.1 m3/sec, which have been taken into account in estimating
the low period flow available to the project. The Milagro river is normally
dry during the dry season and would not be a source of supply for the project.
4.16       The Water Law approved in May 18, 1972 explicitly cancelled all
water rights currently held by private users. Under this law, INERHI is
designated as the authority responsible for granting rights of utilization.
These rights have to be registered and, further, use of the water according
to the purposes for which the right is granted is obligatory to maintain such
a right. The law further empowers INERHI to acquire right-of-way for con-
struction of hydraulic works. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that INERHI would: (a) allocate to the Milagro project not less than 40%
of the water flow available at any time in the Chimbo River, as measured at
Bucay; and (b) prior to the time the farms would be ready to receive irriga-
tion, establish the basic irrigation entitlement for each farm under the
project, and grant and register the corresponding rights of utilization.
Engineering Design
4.17       INERHI has completed the hydraulic calculations and designs for
the main, secondary and tertiary canal systems, both for irrigation and
drainage. Design of major structures and typical structures for the second-
ary and tertiary systems, including turnouts and measuring structures for
each farm, control structures, drops, flumes, bridges and the gravel surfaced
roads, have also been completed. A layout of the main and secondary canals
and road systems has been prepared on photogrammetric maps, scale 1:20,000.
Field surveys have also been completed for these main systems as a basis for



- 12 -
calculating quantities and cost estimates. Additional field surveys would
be required for final layout of the tertiary systems and for land leveling.
Adjustments of Farm toundaries
4J78      IERAC is completing a survey to update cadastral information on
farm boundaries on maps to a scale of 1:5,000. Using these maps, INEREI
has preparea preliminary layouts in the office of the tertiary canal systems
for about one half of the project area.  These layouts indicate the adjllut-
ments in farm boundaries which would be required to construct a more orderly
di,itribution system, which would be more efficient and less costly. Due to
the irregular shape of existing farms, the owners have indicated a willingness
to cooperate in the realignment program which would not imply land reform in
a strict sense, Minor exchanges of land between adjacent farms in most cases
to cover loss or gain of land, taking into account that INERIII has the power
to expropriate right-of-way, would suffice. In cases when the exchange of
land between two adjacent farms resulted in a net gain for one of the farmers,
IERAC would acquire the excess land from the farmer losing such land and
transfer the ownership to the farmer gaining it. IERAC, by using the money
made available to it through INERHI, would pay the full amount of the es-
timated value of the land when it is acquired. The farmer gaining such land
would pay IERAC the same amount under the terms and conditions provided for
in the Agrarian Reforn Law. Compensation would be paid to the farmers, as
provided by the Water Law, where rights-of-way for project works exceeds 10%
of a farmer's holding. Detailed surveys would be required for field layout
of the tertiary irrigation and drainage systems and during this phase IERAC
and INERHI would jointly undertake negotiations with the farmers to acquire
rights-of-way and carry out the realignment program.  Assurances were obtained
from Government during negotiations that funds would be made available:  (a)
to compensate farmers for expropriation of right-of-way when, according to
the Water Law, compensation is required; and (b) to finance acquisition
by IERAC of land subject to transfer when realignment of boundaries so
requires.
Cost Estimates
4.19      Cost estimates for civil works in the project, which includes
headworks, irrigation and drainage systems, roads, buildings and on-farm
development, are based on designs, layout of systems, quantities of work
and unit costs prepared by INERHI, with the assistance of an FAO/IBRD CP
preparation mission. These costs were calculated on the basis that INERHI
would construct the works using small local contractors and provide the
major items of construction equipment required for this purpose. Esti-
mates for other items were prepared jointly by INERHI and the appraisal
mission. Compensation for crop loss is estimated as the present gross
value of production, adjusted for production costs, during the year the
land would undergo on-farm development. Compensation for land includes
rights-of-way, where purchase is necessary, and payments for boundary re-
alignment, where loss of land could not be offset by exchange with an ad-
jacent farm. The equipment item includes equipment for construction, opera-
tion and maintenance, administration, engineering and supervision, the ex-



- 13 -
tension service, the agricultural production unit and for the feasibility
study. Costs for equipment to be imported were estimated on the basis of
duty and tax free import by INERHI, which has this privilege. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 10% for civil works and price contingencies
calculated at 5% for local costs and 6% for foreign costs, compounded annually
during the construction period of 5 years. Contingencies are also included
in the estimated costs for direct purchase of equipment.
4.20       Project cost estimates are given in detail in Annex 4 and summarized
below:
Sucres (million)       US$ (million)       % Foreign
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange
Civil Works               56.25   -       56.25  2.25    -      2.25      -
Equipment                  0.50  95.00   95.50  0.02   3.80   3.82        99
Compensation for crop
loss                    10.00   -       10.00  0.40    -      0.40      -
Compensation for Land      1.25   -        1.25  0.05    -      0.05      -
Administration and
Supervision             19.00   -       19.00  0.76    -      0.76      -
Consultant Services       12.50  20.00   32.50  0.55   0.75   1.30        57
Sub-Total            99.50 115.0   214.50  4.03   4.55   8.58        -
Contingencies
Physical                 5.75   2.00    7.75  0.23   0.08   0.31        -
Price                   16.00  16.75   32.75  0.64   0.67   1.31        -
Sub-Total            21.75  18.75   40.50  0.87   0.75   1.62        46
Total Project Cost  121.25 133.75  255.00  4.90   5.30  10.20         51
Financing
4.21      Total project costs of US$10.2 million would be financed by an IDA
credit of US$5.5 million and a Government contribution of US$4.7 million
to be met by annual budgetary appropriations to INERHI. Government would
be the borrower and carry the foreign exchange risk. The IDA credit would
be extended on standard terms and the proceeds of the credit would be trans-
ferred to INERHI under an agreement between INERHI and Government. Entering
into this transfer agreement, which would set out the conditions under which
INERHI would implement construction, agricultural development and operation
and maintenance of the project, would be a condition of effectiveness of the



- 14 -
credit. Transfer of the credit funds to INERHI, on the same terms as annual
appropriations, is justified since the agency is almost completely supported
by direct appropriations from Government. With an annual budget equivalent
to US$1.3 million in 1970, only 9% was financed through collection of proj-
ect charges for operation and maintenance, with no recovery of capital in-
vestment. The improvement of existing projects and completion of several
new projects over the next 10 years would increase revenues but not to the
extent that INERHI would become anywhere near self-supporting. The increased
revenues would be absorbed into the budget for further improvement and de-
-lopment but INERHI would still be largely dependent on Government appro-
priations for all phases of the irrigation and agricultural development
programs. The IDA credit would cover foreign exchange expenditures for:
(a) equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies, US$3.8 million; (b) consultant
services, US$0.8 million; (c) contingencies, US$0.7 million; and local currency
financing of US$0.2 million for contracting for topographic and cadastral
surveys to a local consulting firm on the feasibility study for extension of
the project. INERHI specifically requested this local currency financing due
to their limited resources for investigation and planning activities. Govern-
ment contribution equivalent to US$4.7 million would finance the remaining
costs, covering the balance of local currency requirements. Assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that a special account would
be established for the project by INERHI and that Governmentts annual contri-
bution would be deposited in such an account on or before March 1 of the year
in which the expenditures would occur. It would be a condition of effective-
ness that appropriations -or 1974, about S/14.0 million, be deposited in the
project account.
Procurement
4.22       INERHI would construct the civil works by using local contractors
(para. 5.08). INERHI would be responsible for organizing and supervising
the construction work and supplying construction equipment, materials and
supplies to the contractors. Contractors, who would be awarded contracts on
the basis of local tenders, would provide skilled and unskilled labor and
locally available material and supplies. The cost of equipment, vehicles
materials and supplies to be procured under the project is estimated at
US$4.0 million; this covers: construction equipment, US$2.1 million; agricul-
tural machinery, US$0.4 million; vehicles, trucks and motorcycles, US$0.2
million; well-drilling and testing equipment, US$0.2 million; and equipment
and supplies for irrigation, engineering, office and laboratory US$1.1 million.
With the exception of equipment for engineering, office and laboratory and
miscellaneous materials and supplies, all other items would be grouped in
contracts estimated to cost more than US$40,000 and would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"; the aggregate value of
these contracts is estimated to be JS$2.9 million. The excepted items, which
because of their nature could not be practically grouped, would be procured
through normal commercial channels on the basis of a minimum of three quota-
tions; the aggregate value of these contracts is estimated to be US$1.1
million. For purposes of bid comparison and contract awarding the standard
World '.iank Group preferential rules would be applicable to local and regional
suppliers. About US$1.0 million worth of consultants and experts services
would be directly negotiated by INERRI (paras 5.05-5.07).



- 15 -
Disbursements
4.23       The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the CIF cost of imported
equipment (US$2.9 million), 80% of the cost of locally produced or procured
equipment (US$0.9 million), the foreign exchange cost of consultants services
for both the Milagro project and the feasibility study for its extension
(US$0.8 million) and 95% of the local currency cost of the topographic and
cadastral surveys (US$0.2 million). The unallocated amount of US$0.7 million
would cover contingencies. Any surplus funds remaining in the Credit Account
on completion of the project should be cancelled. INERHI disbursements for
implementation of the project would be accomplished within about 6 years and
the Closing Date would be August 31, 1979. The estimated schedule of expendi-
tures on the project and a quarterly disbursement schedule are presented in
Annex 5.
Accounts and Audit
4.24       Although INERHI is an autonomous entity under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, its bi-annual budget allocations are received
directly from the Ministry of Finance (MF). INERHI's accounts are audited
internally by an auditor appointed by INERHI's Board of Directors and these
accounts are submitted monthly to the MF. Unless specifically requested, no
further auditing is required. The Board of Directors or the internal auditor
may request that the accounts be audited by the Contraloria General
de la Nacion (National Accounting Office), a public entity independent of
other Government agencies. It appears, however, that the Contraloria General
de la Nacion has insufficient capacity for the task of auditing all the
accounts of Government agencies and this results in considerable delay.
4.25       In other Bank Group projects in Ecuador, accounts are audited by
private firms, of which there are several established in the country, both
local and international. Assurances were obtained from Government during
negotiations that: (a) INERHI would maintain separate accounts for the
project with sub-accounts for construction, operation and maintenance, APU
operations and the collection of project charges; (b) such accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) the
audited accounts together with the auditor's report, would be submitted to
IDA within four months of the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Executing Agency
5.01       The Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrhulicos (INERHI) would
be the project's executing agency. INERHI was created by executive decree
No. 1551, November 10, 1966, for the main purpose of executing irrigation
and drainage development and ensuring rational use of water resources.
It was created by combining the Caja Nacional de Riego and the Direcci6n de



- 16-
Recursos H'idrulicos del Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, two agencies
which formerly had shared responsibility for water resource development. INERHI
is empowered by law to administer and suipervise all activities for integrated
agricultural development within a project area and to enter into agreements
with other agencies who would participate in the project. Under the new Water
Law, approved May 18, 1972, INERHI has been given even broader powers for the
development and management of water resources, one of which provides for the
creation of Irrigation Districts. INERHI's general policies are defined by
its Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock,
and -omprising one representative each from:  (a) General Planning Board;
(b) Institute of Agrarian Reform; (c) National Development Bank; and (d) an
elected representative of the agricultural industry. The head of INERHI and
its legal representative is the Executive Director, appointed by the Minister
of Agriculture and Livestock. The main office in Quito is organized in four
principal departments; namely, administration, planning, technical and agricul-
tural. At present INERHI has a professional and administrative staff of about
175 and employs some 300 more in the field on construction, operation and
maintenance. The technical department which is responsible for engineering
and field operations, has acquired considerable experience working on small
projects during the past several years, as most of the staff are holdovers
from the previous Caja de Riego.  This department is considered competent to
implement the Milagro project, which is demonstrated by its performance on
a similar project, Mantufar (3,500 ha) where, with financial assistance from
IDB, progress on construction is ahead of schedule and actual costs are lower
than the original estimates, Further, the department has satisfactorily
completed the surveys and designs for the Milagro project. The administration
department, while not as strong as the technical department, is presently
undergoing an evaluation by a firm of management consultants, Price, Waterhouse
& Co., leading to a reorganization which should specifically strengthen the
capabilities and effectiveness of this department as well as the overall
agency. In the initial years INERHI has developed into a strong technical
engineering organization, with emphasis on constructing civil works, while
leaving agricultural development to the farmers or other agencies to manage.
This has created a serious deficiency in projects reaching their full produc-
tion potential and providing the anticipated benefits. Consequently, the
Agricultural Department of INERHI must be strengthened for the pattern of
integrated development to be carried out successfully on subsequent projects.
The integrated nature of the Milagro project, including implementation of an
agricultural program by creation of an Agricultural Production Unit at the
project level, managed during the first years by INERHI with the assist-
ance of consultants, would, together with the Montufar project, provide an
opportunity to strengthen INERHI's performance in the agricultural sector and
train staff for this purpose. An important factor for successful implementa-
tion of all aspects of the project is the establishment of a strong project
office, with primary responsibility for all activities, adequately staffed
by competent specialists in the technical, agricultural and administrative
fields and provided with the necessary equipment and facilities. This is
envisaged by INERHI, and the consultants and equipment provided in the project,
together with construction of a new project headquarters, would all help to
achieve this goal.



- 17 -
Project Organization
5.02       Overall responsibility for the project would rest with INERHI.  A
project office with direct responsibility for implementation of all activi-
ties on the project would be established at the new headquarters to be con-
structed in the project area. This office would be supervised by a Project
Director, appointed by INERHI in consultation with IDA and his appointment
would be a condition of effectiveness. The office would comprise four main
units; namely general administration, surveys and construction, agricultural
production and operation and maintenance. The Project Director would be re-
sponsible to the Executive Director of INERHI and the operating units would
be supported by the corresponding departments, technical, administrative and
agriculture in the central office in Quito (Chart 7568). These units would
have responsibility for day-to-day operations in implementing the project,
however the central office in Quito would necessarily retain responsibility
for certain aspects. All engineering design, preparation of plans and most
of the laboratory work would be performed in the central office. The central
office would also retain the main responsibility to negotiate and sign con-
tracts, place orders for equipment, manage the financial aspects and for
maintaining project accounts. Details on the staffing requirements and the
administrative and operational costs for project activities in the project
office are presented in Annex 4.
5.03       The integrated nature of the project would require the participation
of several Government agencies, which have specific responsibility in the country
for agricultural development. To ensure effective coordination of participa-
tion by other agencies, INERHI is in the process of finalizing agreements,
which were discussed and reviewed with IDA during negotiations. The signing
of final agreements satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness. Thereafter, any changes in these agreements would be subject to
IDA's approval. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the con-
tributions of each agency to the project would be provided as stipulated in
these agreements and in accordance with the specific requirements set forth
therein. Agencies participating in the project would be: the Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion (IERAC); the Instituto Nacional
de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (INIAP); the Ministerio de Agricultura y
Ganaderia (MAG); the Federaci6n de Cooperativas Agropecuarias y de Mercadeo
(FECOPAM); and the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF). The role of each is
discussed in the following paragraphs.
5.04       (a)  IERAC was established by Executive Decree in 1964 following
passage of the Agrarian Reform Law in 1963. The main objectives of the
law were to give workers title to the land they cultivate, to establish
colonization projects on public domain, to subdivide and settle certain
public estates and to expropriate and redistribute under-utilized private
lands. IERAC would be responsible for issuing ownership titles to farmers
(about 80% already have titles) and would work with INERHI in realigning farm
boundaries according to, and simultaneous with, layout and construction of tlhe
irrigation, drainage, and road networks. IERAC would be also responsible for
transferring land ownership in cases when realignment of boundaries so requires;



- 18 -
(b) INIAP would direct research activities related to the project
(crops, soils, pests), provide the basic supply of improved seeds, and assist
with the seed multiplication program. It would also organize seminars on
specific subjects fbr training of extension agents. These activities would
be carried out at the Experimental Station of Boliche, located some 20 km
southwest of the project area. This station is presently carrying out several
applied research programs on rice and oilseed crops. Technical and managerial
performances are satisfactory. INIAP in general, and the Boliche Station in
particular, are among the most efficient organizations in the country in the
field of agriculture;
(c) MAG would assist in forming an Extension Service for the
project, providing a highly qualified officer to serve as Chief of the Service
and general policy guidance. INERHI would be responsible for organizing and
supervising extension activities at project level and would recruit staff and
provide funds for the Extension Service. The project's Extension Service
would be expanded in phase with the implementation of irrigation works and,
at full development, it would consist of a team of 10 agents (intermediate
level) headed by an agronomist, who is already on INERHI's staff and working
in the project area. The Extension Service would work in coordination with
the agricultural prbduction unit and INIAP, and would help farmers in assessing
.a;  uirements and preparing requests for agricultural credit;
(d) FECOPAM would assist INERHI in setting up a cooperative which
would be organized to take over the responsibilities initially assigned to
the Agricultural Production Unit (para 5.11) at the end of the development
period when the farmers would be in a position to take responsibility for
management. The agreement with FECOPAM would specify that a plan for the
cooperative and the legal action to be initiated would be presented to INERHI
not later than the end of 1977, to enable establishment of the cooperative by
the end of 1978.  FCOPAM is an organization operating on a nation-wide basis,
responsible for forming cooperatives, carrying out the preparatory work, draft-
inzg statutes according to existing laws, providing training for managers, and
the like. When a cooperative is established and becomes functionally active,
FECOPAM's work is done. The cost of FECOPAM's services would be paid from
their regular budget. The transition of the proposed agricultural production
unit into an& indepeadent cooperative would be undertaken with due regard to
the present regulationis controlling the establishment of Irrigation Districts
in irrigated areas.
(e) BNF would provide short-and medium-term credit either to
t !iagricultural production unit or individual farmers at the interest rate
c'larged ior this type of operations (currently 9% p.a.). Medium-term credit
requirements for establishment of plantations (bananas and cocoa) are estimated
at about S/4.0 million. At full development, short-term credit requirements
would amount to about S/22 million per year. To build up a revolving fund for
the project, a special line of credit would be established at BNF's Guayaquil
office. Only a few farmers in the Milagro area have received credit in the
past from BNF. BNF would have adequate resources to provide this revolving
fund under the terms of a recently approved USAID loan for credit to small and
medium sized farms in the coastal provinces which, together with BNF's own



- 19 -
resources, would make more than US$8.0 million available for this purpose.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would cause BNF
to make funds available in the revolving fund to meet annual credit requirements,
as estimated by APU, and in accordance with the completion of on-farm development
itn the three project units.
Consultant Services
5.05      Due to the scope of the project and the lack of experience in certain
fields, INERHI would require three consultants to advise the Project Director
on: (a) supervision of construction; (b) implementation of on-farm works; and
(c) management of the Agricultural Production Unit. Outline terms of reference
for these consultants are presented in Annex 6 (part A).
5.06       The superintendent of construction would be on duty early in 1974
to receive the construction equipment, set up the workshop, select and train
operators and, in general, organize the job. He would remain in the project
area for four years (1974-1977) until the end of the main works construction
period. Both the irrigation and management experts would stay in the project
area from three to four years (1975-1978). The consultants would be assigned
counterparts, who would take over the consultants' duties at the end of the
construction period. The consultants would provide in-service training to
local staff assigned to the project. Assurances were obtained from Gov-
ernment during negotiations that: (a) consultants would be employed by INERHI
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; (b) replacement of consultants
with INERHI personnel would be done in consultation with IDA; and (c) the
superintendent of construction would be appointed not later than March 1, 1974
and the two other consultants not later than March 1, 1975.
5.07        In addition, consultants would be also needed to assist with the
feasibility study for the extension of the project. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that consultants would be employed by INERHI to undertake
such study under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and that terms
of reference for the consultants would be submitted to IDA not later than
June 30, 1975. A preliminary plan for the feasibility study is presented
in Annex 6 (part B).
Implementation of Project Works
5.08        INERHI would implement the project works by using local contractors
to perform the construction work. Under this method INERHI would be responsi-
ble for organizing and supervising construction and providing technical plans
and services. The contractors, who would be selected through local bidding,
would provide skilled and unskilled labor and perform the work with equipment
furnished by INERHI. The contractors would provide locally available materials
and supplies (cement, fuel, lumber, etc.) and INERHI would provide imported
items such as reinforcing steel and irrigation equipment, as well as the
construction equipment which would be purchased with credit funds. Under the
conditions prevailing in Ecuador and in the project area, this is considered
the most suitable plan for implementing the project. The possibility of
working only during the dry season (June to December) each year and the value
of work that would be completed, about US$1 million, in each of the 5 years



- 20 -
of the construction schedule (Chart No. 7273), would preclude any interest
on the part of foreign contractors. Locally there are no large contractors
who have the competence or experience on this type of work and who could
take fulL responsibility for management and execution. INERHI is the only
organization in the country that has had past experience on irrigation
development. This plan would also provide an opportunity for small con-
tractors to gain experience and INERHI agrees that these contractors
would be permitted to purchase the equipment, once the project is completed,
w' ich would put them in a position to expand their operations and undertake
other contracts for similar type work.
5.09       The limitation on the length of the working season each year, 6
to 7 months, made it necessary to devise a schedule of operations whereby
the land clearing and leveling in a given area could be completed during a
working season and thus interrupt crop production during only one cropping
period in that area. The project area would be divided into three units,of
each unit comprising the area to be served by one of the secondary canal
systems including the complementary laterals (Map IBRD 10278). Project imple-
mentation would take 6 years. During the first year (1973) INERHI would
complete final designs and field layout of the main systems and procure the
construction equipment. Construction is expected to begin with the dry
season in June 1974 and is estimated to take 5 years, or to the end of the
dry season in December 1978. With the expected rate of development, Unit I
(2,600 ha) would be fully Irrigated in year 5 (1977); Unit II (2,700 ha) in
year 6 (1978); and Unit III (1,700 ha) in year 7 (1979). Full production
.'  is expected to be achieved in the fifth year of receiving irrigation.
Cultivation of annual crops during both the wet and dry seasons could be
resumed very soon after completion of on-farm development in each unit;
however, a longer period would be required to re-establish perennial crops
such as cacao. During the period a unit would be undergoing on-farm develop-
ment, the land would be out of production and compensation to the farmers for
crop loss would be required. For the entire project this loss is estimated at
about US$0.4 million, which would cover the gross value of production, less
production cost for inputs, during one year under present conditions. Assur-
ances were obtained from Government during negotiations that funds would be
made available, in accordance with the schedule for on-farm development in
each project unit, to compensate the farmers in an amount equal to the value
of the crop loss, and that such compensation would be paid to farmers before
commencing on-farm works.
Implementation of Agricultural Development
5.10       Implementation of the agricultural development phase of the project
would be the main responsibility of the Agricultural Production Unit (APU),
which would operate as a unit of the project office but with the support of
INERHI's Agricultural Department in Quito. The main objective of this unit
would be to ensure that adequate supporting services would be available to
the farmers, which is not the case at present, and to coordinate the partici-
pation of other Government agencies in this phase of the project. It would



- 21 -
be headed by a General Manager under the supervision of the Project Director.
The General Manager would be assisted by a consultant with broad experience
in agriculture and agricultural management, which would strengthen INERHI's
capabilities in these activities which are rather weak at present. The unit
would be organized in a Field Operations Section and a Marketing Section, with
a deputy manager heading each section. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions from Government that the APU would be established not later than
January 1, 1975.
5.11      APU, with the assistance of the Extension Service (para 5.04c),
would help farmers in planning cropping patterns and in obtaining credit
through BNF, for the purchase of inputs-seeds, fertilizers, chemicals and to
provide storage and transport for subsequent delivery to the farmers. APU
would also provide farm equipment on a rental basis, transport for delivery
of produce directly to markets, storage and drying facilities. The
Marketing Section would arrange outlets with large processing plants and
wholesalers. This type of operation would ensure the availability of inputs
at lowest cost and improve the market and price structure which would increase
the farmer's income. Although the farmers would not be required to deal
through APU, it is expected that nearly all would take advantage of the service
provided. Farmers would repay the production (credit) costs at harvest time
in conjunction with the APU marketing operation, which should ensure a good
recovery rate on credit loans. Farmers would also pay a pro-rated cost for
the use of other APU services. Initially, in order to ensure effective opera-
tion on the part of APU, the project would provide farm machinery, trucks,
storage silos and drying equipment (Annex 7). INERHI would pay administrative
costs during the construction period. APU would monitor the progress of
the agricultural development phase and adoption of the proposed cropping pat-
tern. The Agriculture Department of INERHI would have the responsibility to
prepare annual reports covering such aspects as the areas cropped, production,
use of inputs, prices received, cost of production and market conditions.
These reports would be submitted to IDA as part of the normal progress reports
during the construction period and for subsequent years until a stage of full
production is achieved. It is planned that by the end of the construction
period, this unit, with the assistance of FECOPAM, would be converted into a
cooperative with the farmers as participating members. It is envisaged that
trained staff and the equipment and facilities operated by APU would be trans-
ferred to the cooperative.
5.12      Under present conditions the farmers are not able to finance and
operate the required farming equipment, and private sources are very limited.
For this reason APU would operate a machinery service to meet the needs of
double cropping and harvesting on a restricted schedule. Rental rates for
use of the machinery would be established at a level which would be economic-
ally acceptable to the farmers. The difficulties inherent to this activity
are recognized and, therefore, prior to instituting the service, INERHI would
submit to IDA a detailed proposal outlining the demand for such services, the
cost estimates, rental rates, organizational procedures, maintenance facilities
and schedule for machinery use. Only after IDA approval would INERHI proceed



- 22 -
with the procurement of the agricultural equipment.  Assurances were obtained
from Government during negotiations that INEPRHI would submit such a proposal
to IDA for approval prior to purchase of the machinery and other equipment.
Operation and Maintenance
5.13       T>,FfRiI would hiave overall responsibility for operating and main-
taining project facilities and, after completion of project works, would
establish an Operation and Maintenance Section staffed as shorwn in Annex 7.
The required equipment would include a portion of that purchased for construc-
tion work and some other items additionally required (Annex 7, Table 1).
Annual 0&M costs would amount to S/3.0 million (US$0.12 million), or 425
sucres per ha (US$t7 per ha).
Project Charges
5.14         NERHI is entitled, by law, to impose project charges sufficient
to cover ooeration and mainteniance costs and up to the full amount of Invest-
ments, but, under present practice, the charges levied on existing projects
do not even cover the actual O&M cost.  For the Milagro project, INERHI pro-
posed to introduce gradually a charge that would cover operation and mainte-
nance cost plus a substantial amount of the investments. In determiniLng the
Level of project charges, it has been intended to assure farmers cooperation
in the initial phase and to provide sufficient incentive to maintain their
parti cipation.  In addition, particular attention had to be given to the
fact that some 67% of farms are below 10 ha and that the proposed levels were
in 1 ine with the repayment ability of farms in this size range.
5Ai3        To meet these objectives and considering the project conditions,
it was agreed during negotiations that INERHI would impose two types of
charges:  a first one, called "irrigation service,"' to be gradually introduced
over a 5-year period on a per ha basis, conmencing the first year of receiving
irrigation; and a second one, called "betterment levy", progressive with farm
size, to be paid from  the first year of receiving irr igation onwards.  For
these two types, the following initial levels have been agreed upon:
Irrigation Service                            Betterment Levy
Year of Receiving          Suc-res per       Farm Size         Sucres per
irrigation            hectare              (ha)           hectare
More than  Up to
First                    500                      10           0
Second                   750            10        20          100
Third                  1,000            20        50          200
Fourth                 1,250           50                     400
Fif th-onwards           1 ,500
Moreover, it was agreed that these charges:  (a) would regularly be adjusted
to take into account inf1lation by an indexing mechanism to be agreed upon not
iater than DJecember 31, 1975; and (b) would be reviewed and adjusted not later
than December 31, 1978 and at regular intervals thereafter, in order to recover,
in addition to annual operation and maintenance costs, the project investment
costs as far as possible, taking into account farmers' repayment capacity,
farm size, cropping pattern and taxes paid by the farmers.



- 23 -
5.16      On the basis of the initial levels above, when project costs and
charges are discounted at 8% p.a. over the economic life of the project
(40 years), the charges would recover, in addition to meeting annual costs of
operation and maintenance, about 43% of investments. Expressed in other terms,
this would represent full recovery of investment costs at about 3% p.a.
Expressed as percentage of incremental farm income (before charges) the proj-
ect charges paid by farmers would be: small farms, 12%; medium farms, 23%;
large farns, 26%; and sugarcane farms, 47%. On the average, project charges
would represent about 22% of incremental income (see para 6.11).
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01       With the project the net irrigated area would be 7,000 ha.  It is
estimated that 3,600 ha would be in perennial crops and the balance, 3,400 ha,
in annual crops. In addition to the annual crop grown during the wet season
a second crop would be produced under irrigation during the dry season. This
would result in a total annual cropped area of 10,400 ha. Comparative data
on the present and projected cropping pattern are presented below.
Cropped Area                 Production
Present   Projected   Present   Projected   Increment
------(ha)m------   ------         -(m ton)------
Perennial Crops
Sugarcane                    2,300       1,400      115,000    140,000    25,000
Bananas /1                   1,000       1,700       18,800     51,000    32,200
Cocoa                            -         500         n.a.        500       n.a.
Mixed Tree Crops /2          3,200           -         n.a.          -       n.a.
Annual Crops (Wet Season)
Rice                           250       1,900          500      7,600      7,100
Maize                           250      1,300          300      4,700      4,400
Vegetables                        -        200            -      3,000      3,000
Annual Crops (Dry Season)
Groundnuts                       -       1,900            -      4,800      4,800
Soybeans                         -       1,300            -      2,600      2,600
Vegetables                       -         200            -      3,600      3,600
Total              7,000     10,400
/1    At present, 500 ha Gros Michel, 500 ha Cavendish.
77    Cocoa, coffee, bananas, and others.
Details on yields, production costs and benefits are presented in Annex 8.
6.02       Although statistics on present crop areas and yield levels are limited,
estimates on present land use have been prepared on the basis of aerial photo-
graphs and findings in the field. Under the project, changes in the cropping



- 24 -
pattern would mainly consist of excluding the mixed tree crop stands (para 3.07),
increasing the production of bananas and cereals, and introducing oil crops and
vegetables. Farmers response to project implementation is difficult to fore-
cast; in determining the project cropping pattern to be used as a basis for the
economic rate of return calculations a conservative estimate has been made
taking into account the present level of farming skills and consequently, the
time required to introduce high value crops on a large scale; soil and climate
suitability for certain crops; labor demand; and supply and demand conditions
.n the project area and its markets. As a result the assumed project cropping
pattern represents a wide variety of crops, most of them of medium value. It
is likely that, when farmers achieve a more sophisticated level of cultivation
techniques, changes in individual crop areas would result in their growing
higher value crops than those included in the assumed cropping pattern.
6.03       About 3,600 ha, or roughly 50% of the area, would be devoted to
perennial crops that, in addition to being traditional in the area, provide
a fairly even labor demand through the year. Sugarcane, on a more efficient
commercial basis, would be grown on some 1,400 ha, in specialized farms under
contract with the neighboring Valdez Sugar Estate, which has expressed its
willingness of contracting out the production of that area to fill the present-
ly unused capacity of its factory (para. 3.11). Contracting with private
farmers is a current practice largely used by Valdez Sugar Estate. In the
case of industrial oriented plantations -- both inside the estate and outside
contracted production -- current sugarcane yields frequently exceed 100 ton
per ha, in contrast with the poor yields (50 tons per ha) of the "panela"
production oriented plantations. With the change to commercial production
the use of sugarcane for "panela" would gradually decrease, due mainly to
the low market value. Bananas, of the export oriented Cavendish variety,
would be grown on some 1,700 ha, which would be made up by some 500 ha re-
cently established and the new planting of about 1,200 ha to replace uneco-
nomic plantations of the Gros Michel variety (500 ha) and mixed crop trees
(700 ha). With the improvement of water supply, drainage and use of inputs,
yields are expected to rise at least to 30-32 tons per ha. New plantations
of hybrid cocoa, for which clones are available, would be established on
about 500 ha. Yields are expected to be 1.0-1.1 ton per ha, in line with
those currently obtained in a neighboring plantation.
6.04       About 3,400 ha would be double cropped with seasonal crops.  Cereals
would be grown during the wet season and oilseeds during the dry season.
(a)   Wet Season Crops
INIAP has successfully developed rice and maize varieties that
are well adapted to local conditions. With respect to rice, the Boliche
Station, working with material imported from Colombia (Centro Internacional
de Agricultura Tropical) and Philippines (International Rice Research
Institute), has produced and is distributing the variety INIAP-6, whose
experimental yield is about 8-9 ton per ha. At full development, the commer-
cial yield is expected to average 4 ton per ha. As for maize, the Pichilingue
Stat^on is producing and distributing the variety INIAP-515, whose commercial
yield hlas proved to be between 3.5 and 5.2 ton per ha. At full development, the
average yield is expected to be about 3.6 ton per ha. Because of its higher



- 25 -
economic yield, farmers are likely to devote more land to rice than to
maize; rice area is estimated at 1,900 ha and maize would be grown on about
1,300 ha; vegetables are expected to account for the remaining 200 ha.
(b) Dry Season Crops
INIAP has undertaken a research program on oilseeds and, accord-
ing to the results to date, groundnuts and soybeans would be the most
adequate for the project area. Recommended varieties are "Tarapoto"
(groundnuts) and "Americana" (soybeans). In areas adjacent to Milagro
commercial yields of 2.5-3 ton per ha are currently obtained for groundnuts
and yields of 2-2.5 ton per has for soybeans. As in the case of cereals,
it is expected that farmers would devote more land to the crop yielding
higher profits. It is estimated that groundnuts would be grown on about
1,900 ha and soybeans on about 1,300 ha. As noted for the wet season, it
is envisaged that vegetables would be grown on about 200 ha.
Agricultural Plan
6.05       The sequence harvesting-land preparation-sowing must be completed
on about 3,400 ha twice a year: after the end, and before the beginning
of the wet season. Thus, the agricultural calendar and rainfall pattern
require that critical farming operations be completed in short periods of
time. Although, at present, labor requirements are met by seasonal immi-
grants from the Sierra at low cost (daily wages are about US$1), it is
unlikely that the supply could cope with the substantially increased
demand generated by the project. Furthermore, it would be too risky to
undertake the project assuming that its most critical aspect -- the imple-
mentation of the agricultural development plan -- could be achieved on the
basis of such an uncontrollable input as the supply and adequacy of seasonal
labor. Therefore, agricultural operations would be mostly mechanized.
Market Prospects
6.06       Crops included in the cropping pattern were selected taking into
account market opportunities. When expressed in terms of percentage of future
benefits, crops for the export market (bananas, sugarcane, and cocoa) would
account for about 43%; crops for the domestic market (rice, maize, and vege-
tables) would be about 28%; and import substitution crops (oilseeds) would
be about 29%. Bananas are the country's leading agricultural export and
although no major expansion in exports is forecasted, it is expected that
Ecuador would keep her share in the world trade. At full development in
1983, the project output would represent an increment in Cavendish production
of about 40,000 ton, or about 3% of the present total export level. Taking
into account the favorable location of the project with respect to the main
outlet -- the Guayaquil port -- no problems are anticipated in placing the
production of the project. Sugarcane output would increase in the project
area and future production would be processed by the Valdez factory, which
would ensure a market outlet.  At full development, sugarcane productior - -d
be about 140,000 ton. Sugar is a growing export of Ecuador, whose competitive
and efficient industry, in addition to filling its United States quota, is
in a favorable position to increase sales in the European market. In this



- 26 -
context, it is expected that the project output can be readily marketed. As
for cocoa, the project output would represent about 1% of current total
production, which s4ould not present any difficulty. Further information
on the market prospqcts for bananas, cacao and sugar is presented in Annex 9.
6.07       Rice, maize and vegetables would be absorbed by the domestic
market. Rice output has fluctuated sharply; in recent years, national
production has been about 200,000 tons; maize output is at about the same
level. Thus, at full development, projected production would be about 3%
(rice) and 2% (maize) of current total production in the country. The
increase in the demand of the domestic market will largely exceed these
increments. The market of Guayaquil (population 800,000) is expected to
be a rapidly expanding outlet for vegetable production.
6.08       Ecuador is currently importing about S/140 million (US$5.6 million)
worth of oil and fat products per year. On the other hand, a large propor-
tion of the existing processing capacity, mostly in the Guayaquil area, is
unused. Therefore, oilseed production would be immediately absorbed by the
domestic market, th,us reducing the burden on the balance of payments.
Prices
r  <       Present farm-gate prices in the area are low, due to the lack of
an organized market system and the inability of the farmers to deal directly
with processing plants, exporters or wholesalers. With the intervention of
APU it is expected that the marketing arrangements would improve and that
farmers would receive prices based on direct sale to the major consumers, less
transport, process;ng and service costs incurred by APU. The calculations for
farmers' income have been based on prices currently being paid in the primary
markets rather than the farm-gate prices paid by intermediaries. A significant
example of price dtfferential is the case of bananas, for which the farmgate
price is S/500 per ton while exporters buy from intermediaries at S/900 per
ton. This same relation exists for rice, oilseeds, cacao and maize.
Farm Income
6.10       About 100 farms totalling some 1,400 ha would be devoted exclu-
sively to growing sugarcane under contract with the Valdez Sugar Estate,
which would provide inputs, undertake farming operations, and meet all pro-
duction costs. In fact, this arrangement is a land lease contract in which
the price depends upon crop yield and production cost. The rest of the
project area, about 5,600, ha would be made up by some 725 farms. About 500
small farms (less than 10 ha) would account for some 1,700 ha; medium farms
(10-20 ha) would be about 125 totalling some 1,500 ha; and about 100 farms
(20 ha up) would take up the remaining 2,400 ha.
6.11       To illustrate the impact of the project on the beneficiaries,
three different models have been prepared corresponding to small, medium,
and large farms. Family labor force averaging 4 to the family would suffice
on small farms, but medium and large farms would need hired labor all year
around. Land preparation would be fully mechanized through the area (para
5.12). Harvesting would be by hand in small farms, where family labor can



- 27 -
cope with it and mechanical harvesting, in addition to introducing an unneces-
sary cost, would imply a substantially larger machinery service. On medium
farms, rice and groundnuts would be harvested by hand and maize and soybeans
mechanically. On large farms, harvesting would be fully mechanized. A
detailed analysis of representative farm budgets, at full development, is         I
presented in Annex 8 and summarized below:
Farm Type                        Small       Medium        Large       Sugarcane
Representative Farm Size (ha)    3.4           12.0         24.0           14.0
No. of Farms                     500           125         100            100
Represented Area (ha)         1,700         1,500        2,400          1,400
--- (Sucres) ---------------------
Present Farm Income           8,000        30,000       50,000         25,000
With the Project
Farm Benefits              49,900       114,500      207,200         72,800
Project Charges
Irrigation Services       5,100        18,000       36,000         21,000
Betterment Levy             -           1,200        4,800          1,400
Total                     5,100        19,200       40,800         22,400
Net Farm Income          44,800        95,300      166,400         50,400
Incremental Net Income       36,800        65,300      116,400         25,400
US$ Equivalent            1,470         2,610        4,660          1,020
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01       The project would rehabilitate and expand an existing irrigation
system, now serving, deficiently, about 1,200 ha, to cover a net area of
about 7,000 ha. It would substantially improve the present land use by re-
placing old and unproductive plantations of mixed tree crops (bananas,
cocoa, coffee and others) with export-oriented varieties of bananas and
cocoa, and by introducing import substitution crops, mainly ailseeds, of
which Ecuador suffers a severe shortage. The irrigation component would be
the basis of an integrated agricultural development program to provide credit,
extension, farm machinery, and marketing facilities to the farmers. Today,
the low quality and volume of the produce, the extremely weak capitalization
of the farms, and the lack of a marketing organization, constitute altogether
a vicious circle in which each one of these aspects is simultaneously cause
and effect of the others. Farmers are disconnected from the market and the
produce is sold to middle-men at prices on which the supplier has little or
no influence. The project is intended to overcome these conditions.
7.02       Some 825 families having currently an average annual income of
about S/19,600 (US$780) would benefit from the project. At full production,
annual family income would increase by US$1,470, US$2,610 and US$4,660 for
small, medium and large farms. With an average of six to seven persons per



- 28 -
family, this would represent per capita income increases of about US$230,
US$410 and US$720 over present levels of US$50, US$180 and US$320, for the
three groups of farms. On the average per capita income in the project area
would be about US$420, as compared to a projected national average for the
agricultural sector of about US$200. 1/
7.03       At full agricultural development, 11 years after commencement of
the project, the net value of production, at economic prices, would be about
US$3.1 million per year, while the corresponding value without the project would
be about US$1.0 million.  Since future production would be for export or import
suL-tittution, significant project benefits would accrue from foreign exchange
earnings. When costs and benefits are discounted over a 40-year period, the
economic rate of return would be about 16%.   To measure the project's sensi-
tivity to deviations from the basic assumptions, three alternatives were
examined, namely; (a) a two-year delay in project implementation together
with a 20% increase in project costs; (b) a 50% reduction in the double cropped
area; and (c) a 10% decrease in prices.  In no case would the rate of return
be lower than 11%. Annex 10 gives detailed information on project economic
analysis.
7.04       The project would cause a shift from a seasonal underemployment
situation to one in which the farm family labor force would be fully used.
In addition, the project would absorb hired labor equivalent to about 1,500
man-year, quite evenly distributed over the year. Lowest demand for hired
labor would take place during May-July (about 850 jobs) and the peak during
December-February (about 2,500 jobs).
7.05       The project would not introduce any major changes that could ad-
versely affect the ecology of the area. Improved drainage and road systems
will improve living conditions, particularly during the wet season. Drainage,
together with clearing of the mixed tree groves, could also help to control
insect propagation, which, however is not a serious problem at present.
Heavy rainfall during the wet season would minimize the effects of increased
use of pesticides and fertilizers.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01       During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points.
(a)  INERHI would allocate to the Project not less than 40%
of the water flow available at any time in the Chimbo
River, as measured at Bucay, and grant and register rights
of utilization to each farm (para 4.16);
(b) funds would be made available to finance acquisition
by IERAC of land subject to transfer when realignment
of boundaries so requires (para 4.18);
l/    Based on data presented in the IBPD/IDA report, "Current Economic
Position an(   ,spects of Ecuador", Nov. 16, 1972.



- 29 -
(c) funds would be made available sufficient to
compensate farmers for the value of the crop loss
during the period the farm was undergoing on-farm
development (para 5.09);
(d) INERHI would submit a detailed proposal to IDA for
approval, outlining the requirements for machinery
services and operational procedures prior to purchasing
the machinery and other equipment (para 5.12); and
(e) INERHI would assess and collect project charges
sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs
and to recover a substantial amount of investments;
and that the minimum level of project charges initially
agreed would be periodically reviewed to protect capital
recovery against inflation and to reflect actual farmers'
payment capacity (para 5.15).
8.02       Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be:
(a) the execution of an agreement satisfactory to IDA
between the Government and INERHI for a transfer
of the proceeds of the credit to INERHI to finance
implementation of the project (para 4.21);
(b) the deposit of local currency requirements for
project implementation during fiscal year 1974,
in the special project account (para 4.21);
(c) the appointment of a Project Director in consultation
with IDA (para 5.02); and
(d) the approval by IDA of the final agreements signed
between INERHI and IERAC, INIAP, MAG, FECOPAM and
BNF (para 5.03).
8.03       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$5.5 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Description of the Project Area
General
1.        The project area is located in the western part of Ecuador
in the tropical coastal zone and about 40 km east of the City of Guayaquil.
The area proposed for development (7,000 ha) lies adjacent to the Rio Milagro
and the Rio Chimbo, which are tributaries to the Rio Guayas, and within the
Guayas river basin and the province of Guayas. Physically the project area
is located in the upper coastal piedmont about midway between the foothills
of the Andes Cordillera and the coast. This zone has very favorable soil
and drainage conditions as compared to lower lying areas nearer the coast.
The catchment area of the Rio Chimbo, the source of water supply for the
project, covering 2,250 km2, has its headwaters on the western slope of the
Andes mountain range and derives a part of its flow from the perpetually snow
covered Chimborazo massif.
Topography
2.        The land surface in the project area, and in the general zone, is
exceptionally uniform with an average slope of 0.2% from east to west. This
is due to land formation by alluvial outwash from the mountains and accounts
for the fertile soils which derive from volcanic origin. The main rivers
flow generally westward and local drainage is provided by "esteros" or small
channels which traverse the area, discharging into the main rivers, and flow
only during periods of heavy rainfall. Some ponding occurs during the wet
season and groundwater levels rise to the ground surface, however, the area
dries out in a relatively short time at the beginning of the dry season, due
mainly to good vertical percolation. Elevations in the project area vary
from 18 msl at the lower, or western boundary, to 40 msl at the upper end.
The area is not affected by the tidal bore or sea water intrusion and the
uniform topography will greatly simplify construction of irrigation and drain-
age systems and land levelling. The project area is contiguous, extending
about 13 km in the east-west direction and varying in width from 3 km at the
upper end to 8 km at the lower or western boundary (see Map IBRD No. 10278).
Climate
3.        The climate is tropical and is characterized by a wet season from
about mid-December to mid-May and a dry season during the remainder of the
year. A long period of record (1931-1970) at the City of Milagro, just out-
side the project area, shows a total average annual rainfall of 1,500 mm of
which less than 100 mm occurs during the dry season. However, the records
indicate that since 1963 the annual average has decreased to around 1,000 mm,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
leading to speculation that a change in the climatic cycle is occuring,
possibly due to movement of the Humboldt current. In any case rainfall is
sufficient during every month from December to May to produce a crop during
this period. Irrigation is necessary during the period June to mid-December
for a second crop and the productivity of perennial crops would benefit from
irrigation during this period.
4.        Humidity is high and almost constant throughout the year, averag-
ing over 80%. Temperatures are also constant, the average varying from 23C
in July to 26°C in March. Cloud overcast occurs more than 75% of the daylight
hours, however, this appears to have no adverse effect on crop production as
yields, when technology and inputs are adequate, are comparable to those in
other parts of the world where direct sunlight occurs during more hours of
each day. Precise measurements with Type A pans during the period 1963-69
gave an annual average evaporation of 1,100 mm with an average deficiency as
compared to effective rainfall of 700 mm from June through December for crop
production, which makes irrigation essential. Wind velocity averages less
than 2.0 m/sec which would have no effect on agricultural operations or
production.
Soils and Land Classification
5.        The soils in the Milagro area are mainly recent alluvium and occur
along the terraces and flood plains of the Chiinbo and Milagro rivers and their
tributaries. The alluvium is derived from volcanic sediments deposited in the
upper valleys of the watershed on the west slope of the Andes Cordillera. The
soils are stratified, and range from medium textures (loams and silt loams)
to moderately coarse textured (sandy loams). On the basis of a classifica-
tion of suitability for sustained irrigation, all of the soils qualify in
Class 1 or 2 with 81% in Class 1 (highly suitable) and 19% in Class 2 (mod-
erately suitable). From the standpoint of depth of profile, permeability,
moisture holding capacity and ease of cultivation the soils are highly pro-
ductive and adapted to a wide range of crops. Chemically these soils are
well supplied with calcium, potassium and magnesium and the pH values are
within a desirable range. Organic matter and nitrogen are moderate, but
nitrogen fertilizers would be required for sustained high crop yields. Phos-
phate levels are low and maize, sugarcane and legumes have shown high re-
sponse te phosphate on the San Carlos Sugar Estate. With intensive crop-
ping a need for potassium will probably develop. Due to good permeability
and drainage characteristics there are no salinity problems in the area.
Details on soil characteristics are presented in Appendix 1 of this annex.
Existing Irrigation Development
6.        The existing project, which ineffectively serves about 1,200 ha,
is part of a system which also provides irrigation to the San Carlos Sugar
Estate (15,000 ha) and the Valdez Sugar Estate (7,000 ha). These systems
all share the same diversion works on the Rio Chimbo and the main canal which
delivers water into the Estero Anapoyo (natural drain). The intake for



ANNEX 1
Page
San Carlos is from the main canal, about one km from the dipetFion noint.
This structure also controls the flow into the Estero and prevetns e?xcess
flows from the river, during periods of heavy run-off, from ertPx1ng the
system. Diversion from the river is uncontrolled since it consists of an
earth dike, which intercepts a portion of the river flow and conducts water
through a channel formed in the river bed to the mouth of the main canal. This
dike is breached during the wet season to prevent flooding the main canal
system and rebuilt at the beginning of the irrigation season each year. The
two sugar estates provide equipment and share the cost of this maintenance
with INERHI. This arrangement is effective, even though it requires constant
maintenance, and construction of permanent diversion works would not be jus-
tified for the proposed project unless San Carlos and Valdez would agree to
share the cost. This is not likely since an adequate flow may be obtained to
serve the two sugar estates and the proposed project with the existlng arrange-
ment. Extension of the irrigated area in the Milagro project to 7,000 ha is
projected on diverting the total flow of the river during the period of low
flow in September each year, and the existing main canal with a ceapnity of
12 m3/sec below the San Carlos intake is adequate for this purpose and to
supply Valdez. A permanent diversion dam would not increase the av-iaiale
supply during the low flow period, which is the primary constreint on 4ne
amount of land that could be served with an assured supply.
7.         The project intake structure on the Estero Anapoyo serves a distri-
bution system of three canals with a combined capacity of 6 m3 sec. Irriga-
tion of the 1,200 ha under this system is relatively ineffective due to a
lack of proper control structures and land leveling. Distribution of water
to the land and on the land is very inefficient and, in fact, many farmers
under the system make no attempt to use water, or at best, on only a small part
of their land. A drainage system has not been provided and all-weather roads
serve only a part of the area. With the exception of the intake structure,
which would be rehabilitated, the existing distribution system would be re-
placed by the new system under the proposed project.
8.         Water for Valdez is discharged through the project intake, flowing
downstream in the Estero and eventually into the Rio Milagro where the Valdez
diversion is located. The Rio Milagro, which runs through the project area,
is normally dry during the irrigation season and cannot be used as a source
of supply for irrigation.






ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils and Land Classification
1.        A semi-detailed soil survey on a scale of 1:20,000 covering 10,000
ha in the project area was carried out by a consultant firm in 1966. Soil
borings were made to a depth of 150 cm and samples collected on a grid pattern
at 500 m intervals. Soil characteristics were established for each 15 cm of
soil depth from the surface to the total depth of 150 cm from data on texture,
structure, color, moisture holding capacity, plasticity and permeability.
Chemical properties were also analyzed.
2.        On the basis of soil characteristics and topography the lands in the
project area were classified as follows:
Land Class              llectares                Percent of Area
Class 1                  8,160                         81
Class 2                  1,840                         19
10 000                       100
The 7,000 ha proposed for development in the project constitute a part of the
10,000 ha covered in the survey.
3.        Class 1 Lands:  These are irrigable lands that are highly suitable
for irrigation farming, being capable of producing sustained and relatively
high yields of a wide range of climatically adapted crops at reasonable cost.
They are smooth lying with gentle slopes. The soils are deep and of medium
textures (loams and silt loams) and moderately coarse textures (sandy loams and
fine sandy loams) throughout the profile. Roots, air, and water penetrate the
soil readily. These soils are moderately permeable, well drained, and have
good available moisture storage capacity. Both soil and topographic conditions
are such that a minimum of farm drainage would be required. Overall project
drainage would be required and project canals and ditches would need to be
lined.
4.        Class 2 Lands:  This class comprises lands of moderate suitability for
irrigation farming, being measurably lower than class 1 in current productive
capacity, adapted to a somewhat narrower range of crops, more expensive to pre-
pare for irrigation and more costly to farm. They are not so desirable for
general farming as lands of class 1 because of certain correctable or noncorrec-
table limitations. They may have a lower available moisture capacity, as indi-
cated by coarse texture or limited soil depth. They may be only slowly permeable
to water because of moderately fine or fine textures. Farm drainage would be
required.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
Soil Fertility
5.        Chemical analysis of selected soil samples gave the range and average
values shown in the following table. These data are representative of the top
30 cm of the soil profile:
0Oganic      Cation Eccha*ge ltractabie Cationa -    Available Base
Matter Nitrogen Capacity -    me/IO -rams     K   Saturation
PH      S     S    Me/100 grams   Ca  Mg   K-- pT    n     %
13.9   0.2  0.2  0.3-  17.6    94-  85-
Range  6.4-7.1 2.2-4-2 0.10-0.35 18.0 - 47.6  25.6 24.9 0.3 1 S 54.2  50o    11I
Average  6.7   3.6   0.20    33.7    19.0 10J4 0.2 0.7 30.3  241    90
6.        The analyses indicate that the soils have favorable chemical conditions.
They are well supplied with calcium and magnesium and the pH reaction is in the
optimum range for crop production.  Sodium is slightly higher than would be
expected in soils in a humid zone.  Organic matter and nitrogen are moderately
low which reflect leaching during the high rainfall season each year. Intensive
cropping and high yields would require regular applications of nitrogen fertili-
zer for both annual and perennial crops. A need for potassium would likely
develop for some crops and the San Carlos Sugar Estate has obtained a good re-
sponse from annual applications of phosphate, which would also occur with crops
such as groundnuts and soybeans which have a high requirement for this element.
The rapid decomposition of organic matter would make it essential to plow under
crop residue. The residual from fertilizer applications during the irrigation
season would thus be utilized during the wet season. Dissolved calcium and
magnesium in the irrigation water should keep the soils adequately supplied with
these elements. With a systematic program for application of nitrogen and other
fertilizers, depending on the crop and the natural availability of potassium
and phosphate, there would be no difficulty in obtaining satisfactory yields
from these naturally good soils.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Scope of the Project
A. Selection and Formulation
1.        The Bank report, "Agricultural Review of Ecuador," July 1972, pro-
vides a comprehensive review of the present situation on irrigation development
in Ecuador and on the policy and possibilities for future development. In
the past INERHI has given a great deal of attention to improving existing
projects in the Central Highlands, due to the dependence of a major ---t of
the population on production in this region, but in recent years the advantages
of development in the western lowlands have become more apparent. The
combination of relatively level land, good soils, moderate climate and
available moisture create a potential for high production with reasonable
investment for development and improved technology. This region also offers
an opportunity to drain off excess population from the highlands where extreme
minifundia is a serious constraint to modernization and increased production.
2.        In the western lowlands the Guayas river basin has exceptionally
favorable conditions for agriculture. During the past 4 years an autonomous
organization, "Comision de Estudios para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio
Guayas" (CEDEGE), has undertaken a comprehensive study through the basin to
identify and plan projects for future development. There are possibilities
for large multi-purpose projects, such as Daule-Peripa for hydropower,
flood control and irrigation; however the Government has decided that initial
development should be restricted to smaller projects in the basin, of which
Babahoyo and Milagro have been assigned highest priority. The IDB has been
requested to assist with Babahoyo and the Bank Group with Milagro.
3.        The initial feasibility studies for improvement and extension of
the Milagro and the adjacent Manuel J. Calle projects were carried out by
the Charles T. Main consulting firm during 1965-67 with funds provided by
USAID. This study recommended a project of 3,700 ha at Milagro using surface
water and a future extension to be supplied from groundwater. A subsequent
review of the data and report by FAO/IBRD CP revealed certain discrepancies
in evaluating the water supply and it was determined that a project of
7,000 ha net was possible with only the available river flow. A new
feasibility report was prepared by Government on this basis and on a second
mission the CP assisted Government in refining the overall plan, designs and
cost estimates. This provided the basis on which the project was appraised.
At this stage the Manuel J. Calle project and groundwater development were
set aside for a later stage of development. The present proposal, however,
includes funds for a feasibility study to extend the project by use of
groundwater and the flow available in the Rio Yaguachi.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Project Description
General
4.        The Milagro project has been planned for integrated agricultural
development, as outlined in the main report. Thus the construction of the
civil works would be only one of a series of activities required to achieve
production levels which would bring measurable benefit to the farmers and
the country and justify the investment. This integrated approach is essen-
tial to provide supporting services which are not available at present.
The project, therefore, consists of the following interrelated activities.
Civil Works
5.        The civil works on the project would consist of the following:
(a) Rehabilitation of the main canal from the Rio Chimbo
diversion to the project intake on the Estero Anapoyo
(3 kin) and reconstruction of the project intake;
'1b) 73 16a of conrete lines main and secondary canals;
witli the required control structures;
(c) 220 km of concrete lined tertiary canals with
struttures;
(d) 53 kin of main and secondary drainage canals and
285 km of tertiary drains;
(el 330 km of gravel-surfaced service roads;
(f) on-farm development on 7,000 ha which would include
land clearing (4,000 ha), land leveling (6,000 ha),
farm ditches and drains and unsurfaced farm roads;
and
(g)  headquarters buildings providing space for offices,
warehouses and a machinery maintenance shop.
m icultural Production Unit
6.        The success of the project will depend on the availability of
supporting services to assist the farmers in adapting to new cropping
patterns, provide seeds and fertilizers, make machinery available during
critical periods to meet the tight schedule for double cropping and to
provide transport, storage and marketing assistance. These services are
not adequately available at present and a production unit, operated as
a division of INERHI during the development phase of the project, would
ensure that these essential services were available during this critical
period. The production unit, which would be operated much the same as a
cooperative, would b6 provided with transport, drying and storage facil-
ities and farm machinery, as part of the project. The production unit



ANNEX 2
Page 3
wmu'.4 rm-t   rktirp, ae:-angements directly with prncessirg fAalts and
whnlezs2:r.  .s ~a mL :I` Jih.provixig the prices received by tin farrers.
Aga<2:2iti 2 credit pru3vided by BNF would mainly, but not exrlis'ively,
he -h     ~ Xed ihrough the nnit which would permit the bulk purchase of
inn."s such as fertilizers, pesticides and seeds, for delivery In kind to
in-Ajidual farmers.  This system would ensure coordination of the use of
Cr?¶t marketing of production and loan recovery.  It would alSO provide
the' rEsrms with a lower cost source of inputs and services.  Farmers
"-^."sd pay rental for machinery and a pro-rata cost for drying. transport
and otorage facilities. INERHI would pay the management costs of the unit
during the first 5 years, however, it is planned that at the end of this
time the unit would be converted to a full cooperative, under the guidance
of FECOPAM., with management being taken over by the farmers. A census of
the farmers has indicated that close to 100% favor implementation of the
proje-t and formation of one or more cooperatives to provide the supporting
services and a marketing outlet.
Extension Services
7.         In the past the Ministry of Production (today Ministry if Agrieul-
ture and Livestock) has -ot had sufficient resources to provide ever, a minimum
cr  e nion assistance throughout the country and particularly ln the project
erea.  INERHI would have responsibility, both for management and funding, to
provide a group of about 10 extension agents during the development period to
asqtst farmers with farm planning, cropping patterns, variety selection, use
of credit and inputs, irrigation practices and other management aspects. The
tlinistry of Agriculture and Livestock would provide policy and technical
guidance to the service and assist with recruitment. Training for production
of specific crops would be provided by INIAP to both extension agents and
fa-mers through the nearby Boliche research station. The Extension Service
would work in close cooperation with the Production Unit and provide assistance
on tbe credit program.
Mricultural Credit
8.        The credit needs of the project, both short-term production credits
and medium-terms development credits, would be met by BNF. The credit
program for the project would be handled through the Guayaquil office of
BNF and it is proposed that a revolving fund be established for this purpose.
It Is also envisaged that most of the credit would be channeled through the
Agricultural Production,Unit (APU), however this would not preclude indi-
wvduv4l farrers from obtaining loans directly from BNF.  There would be
a0vantages to the farmers in coordtnating production credits with the
bulk purchase of inputs by APU and the provision of transport, storage,
machinery and marketing services. This would also simplify the operations
for BN? and ensure a good recovery rate since the APU, with the assistance
of tho Extension Service, could establish realistic credit needs for each
ferrer, zneure that all inputs would be available and used effectively and
r-Artain come control of marketing and accounts at harvest time.  It is
exnected that a portion of the credit needs would be provided from a recently



ANNEX 2
Page 4
signed USAID loan for agricultural credit. This loan includes about US$4.2
million for oilseed prcduction and marketing in the provinces of Los Rios and
Guayas. The loan would be supplemented by codnterpart funds of about US$4.0
million provided by Gol.ernment, BNF and other participating banks for increased
production of maize, rice and cotton under irrigated double cropping with oil-
seeds.  The credit requirements of the project would develop in accordance with
the completion sane-.ule of the thirea untrs and, at full development, are
estimated to reach a peak between S/20 and S/25 million per year, that would
decrease rapidly as farmers become more able to finance their own production
and development costs.
Seed Procuction and Research
9.         The project would benef±t from the on-going research and seed
production programs at the Boliche station.  These programs involve crops
which are relevant to the project, primarily maize, rice, groundnuts and
soybeans. With support from the project on laboratory and cold storage
equipment and improvement on about 40 to 60 ha for irrigation under the
existing system, INIAP woJuld provide a basic supply of certified seed to
the APIJ which could thent be multiplied ender arrangements with selected
farmers on the project. With the introduction of oilseeds into the cropping
pattern and the need to improve rice and maize production, the supply of
certified seeds and suitable varieties becomes an important input for
conversion of the existing cropping patterns. INIAP would also provide
training for extension agents and denonstration programs for farmers and
make research data available to the project on a continuing basis.
RealtgnMent of Fa-r  Bouuidrie,
10.        During the past   vh years, 12tXC lhas undertaken a land reform
program in the proJect are!~ Ahi!ct bas.'al3y consisted of legalizing own-
ership on the basis of e istivg ladI-Use. by renters, sharecroppers, squat-
era and in some cases actula ow,4er6.   M.t the problem of ownership has
been resovled, the patter:  f efarm  slsee and boundaries is irregular.  A
realignment progralk t(. enable csnsLruction C,f a more orderly and efficient
irrigation and draln.age system will he audertaken.  While the irrigation
and drainage canals, with accomranying roa,s, woauld be located as nearly
as possible along existirkg farm boutkaries, saone realignment would be
necessary which would re&ult In a :,ess of land by some farmers and a gain
by others.  Most of thee -e cases,       = C e'tiLlated to involve about 300 ha,
would be resolveJU by lanad ..xcfiarg%e6  Ilowevc, compensation would be required
where a net loss occuiree.   'tzH avoLoIvt .#.- vved, in land or cost, is difficult
to estimate.  A saripl   '     way- a r     of about 3,000 ha, or one-third of
the gross project a:rea, ildicattd  rhat rUh  net losses which could not be
covered by exchanges wcre a-       otic-  tc:lit;  these studies took into
account the author.4tv of  MRNHI, under =ria lsW wfor creation of irrigation
districts, to exrroprzte r-nts-of-way Z,cr irrigation works without compen-
sation, unless such ex toprirAun affe -s mnore than 10% of an individual
holding.  The pisgr-tm i- realisnwmeurt w     1Y)#. ocarried out jointly by INERHI
and IERAC du-ring               i of thte dv3ee1  Jurlng which the final location



ANNEX 2
Page 5
of canals and roads would be determined on the ground. The up-dated cadastral
survey being completed by IERAC would provide a basis for making the boundary
adjustments.
Feasibility Study for Future Extension
11.        The original feasibility study for the Milagro project by
Chas. T. Main, Int., included extension of the project by about 5,000 ha
to the west and south of the project area, known as the Banco Arena area,
by supplementing surface flow with groundwater development. In the
revised study prepared by the Government the proposed Milagro development
area, using only surface flow from the Rio Chimbo, was expanded from 3,700
ha to 7,000 ha, which is the limit that could be accommodated from the
Rio Chimbo, taking into account other existing rights. In liew of ground-
water development, Government requested that funds be provided in the loan
for a study on the proposed Tabacundo project in Central Highlands near
Quito. This project was found to be completely unsuitable for irrigation
development. Following discussions on possible alternatives for future
development, it was agreed with Government that external financial assis-
tance for irrigation could be used to greater advantage in the western
lowlands and specifically in Guayas province. On this basis it was
agreed to include the Banco Arena area, about 5,000 ha, together with a
contiguous area further south and west of about 10,000 ha, which would
receive an irrigation supply from the Rio Yaguachi, in the project for
investigation and preparation of a feasibility study. The critical part
of this study would be to confirm the adequacy of the water supply from
both the groundwater resources and the Rio Yaguachi. Other conditions
in these areas are similar to those in the Milagro area with respect to
soil, climate and terrain and should be favorable. The provisional plan
for carrying out this study is presented in Annex 6 (Part B).






ALNEX 3
Page 1
ECUADCIR
I4ILAGRO IRRIGATIO01 PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand, Quality and Rights
Adequacy of Rainfall
1.        Climate in the project area is characterized by two distinct sieasons,
a wet season from mid-December through May each year with rainfall averaging
1,000 mm or more and a dry season from June to December during which rainfall
averages less than 100 mm. Present production in the area is based on one
annual crop during the wet season while the yield of perennial crops, such as
cacao, bananas, coffee and tropical fruits, suffer from lack of moisture during
the dry season. During the dry season total evapotranspiration, based on pan
evaporation records for the past 5 years, is estimated at 700 to 800 mm. With
virtually no effective rainfall during this season the need for irrigation is
clearly evident.
Water Supply
2.        The project water supply would be obtained from the Rio Chimbo, a
source which is now shared by the San Carlos Sugar Estate (15,000 ha), the
Valdez Sugar Estate (7,000 ha) and the existing Mfilagro project (1,200 ha).
All these systems obtain their supply from a common diversion works and main
canal.
3.        The Rio Chimbo, with a watershed of 2,250 km , has its headwaters at
the higher elevations on the western slope of the Andes Cordillera and receives
a part of its flow from the permanent snowfields of the Chimborazo massif, the
highest peak in Ecuador. This ensures a high average flow in the river, parti-
cularly during the dry season, and is the reason this river is the main source
of supply in the Milagro area. The Milagro river, for example, is relatively
short and does not benefit from the high mountains with the result it is com-
pletely dry during the dry season. Previous studies have demonstrated that
construction of a dam and regulating reservoir on the Rio Chimbo, which would
increase the available supply, would not be feasible due to the excessive grade
in the streambed, lack of suitable sites and high sediment discharge during
flood flows. The project would, therefore, be dependent on normal stream flow
and, specifically, on the minimum flow during the dry season which would also
be the period of peak irrigation demand.
4.        Discharge records, partially reconstit'ated by correlation with rain-
fall records, are available at the Bucay Station, 20 km upstream from the pro-
ject diversion for the period 1944-69. These indicate that the lowest average
flow occurs in the months of September and December, with a monthly average of
about 14 m /sec. This average would be about equal to the diversion demands
for irrigation, which means that the total flow of the river would be utilized.
On the basis of quantity, thS average flow during the period 1964-68, frQm June
through December, was 341 Mm 7 with the lowest in 1968 of 227 Mm3.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Tle size of the proposed >iilagro project was determined on the basis of the
flow available, taking into account the requirements of San Car;os and Valdez.
A more detailed analysis for the critical years 1964-70 is presented in Table 1.
This was a period of drouglht in the Southern Hemisphere and this table indicates
the deficiencies that could occur with a project of 7,000 ha in addition to San
Carlos and Valdez. These range up to about 30% during the two critical months
ifn 3 years out of 25, which is acceptable and which would only slightly affect
production on the project. The water supply available to the project would be
adequate.
WTater Demand
5.        The total diversion demand during the irrigation season ( une through
December) for the proposed project (7,000 ha) is estimated at 70 iIm . *  Te cal-
culations for crop water requirements, as presented in Table 2, are based on
measurements of evaporation from Type A panis during the 5 year period, 1967-71,
and application of coefficients (Hargreaves) for each crop, taking into account
the cropping pattern, crop calendar and stages of growth. These coefficients
have been established over a period of years to represent tropical conditions.
The use of these coefficients witlh measured pan evaporation is a more direct
and reliable method for estimating evapotranspiration than the use of empirical
formulae. An assumed field efficiency of 60% and conveyance losses of 10% were
used to estimate the diversion demand. In general the crop water requirements
for the 7 month period a-e relatively low compared to more arid parts of the
world. This is due to the climatic conditions which combine high constant
humidity with an even temperature, high percent of cloud overcast and low wind
3
movement.  The average demand for the irrigation season would be lQ,O00 im /ha.
A maximum water duty of 0.8 liters/sec/ha and diversion demand of 5.5 m /sec
would occur in September each year, which is the mid-point of the dry season.
Water Quality
6.        Tests on water samples from the Rio Chimbo during low flow at the
diversion works gave the following average results:
Total                   CATIONS
Dissolved                                                    Water
pH    Solids         Ca          Na    K  lea           SAR        Class
m          ---------------me/1-----m
7.5     260         1.94  0.96  0.43  0.04  15          0.7        C2-S1
These tests indicate that sodium is insufficient to cause any harm and total
salts would not be a problem with the favorable leaching qualities of the soils
in the project area. Chloride and other salts are below levels which would be
injurious to sensitive plants. These waters are, therefore, highly satisfac-
tory for irrigation use under the soil and climatic conditions prevailing in
the project area.



ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Available Discharge. Diversion Requirements and Deficiencies
June                   July                Au ust             September              October                 November             December
Year   Dis.   Reg.   Def.   Dis.   Req.  Def.   Dis.   Req.  .Def  Dis.   Req.   Def. ! Dis.   Req.   Def.   Dis.   Req.   Def.   Die.   Req.   Def.
1964   20.5   2.3      -     13.0   3.1    -      8.8    4.2      -   8.7    5.5       -     8.4    5.0      -      8.5    3.4      -      8.1    3.4      -
1965   30.3   2.3      -     17.8   3.1    -      9.0    4.2      -   9.1    5.5       -     9.4    5.0      -    18.9    3.4       -      9.7    3.4      -
1966   12.2   2.3      -      8.1   3.1    -      3.9    4.2      -   3.9    5.5    29       5.0    5.0      -      3.1    3.4      9      4.1    3.4      -
1967   11.6   2.3      -      7.8   3.1    -      4.0    4.2      -   4.0    5.5    27       5.3    5.0      -      4.8    3.4      -      2.9    3.4      15
1968    5.5   2.3      -      4.5   3.1    -      3.4    4.2    19   3.4    5.5    38        8.0    5.0      -      4.0    3.4      -      2.5    3.4      26
1969   21.9   2.3      -     19.9   3.1    -      6.6    4.2      -   6.2    5.5       -     6.2    5.0      -      8.5    3.4      -    14.9    3.4       -
1970   36.8   2.3      -     18.2   3.1    -    11.8    4.2    --  10.7    5.5         -    10.7    5.0      -    13.1    3.4       -    23.5    3.4       -
Dis. - Average monthly discharge available (m3/sec) to project, excluding discharge reserved for San Carlos, Valdez and others users.
Req. - Diversion Requirement (m /sec).
Def. - Deficiency in discharge to meet requirement (X).                                                                                                 s|x
December, 26, 1972



ANNEX 3
ECUADOR                                          Table 2
MILAGRO IRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Requirements and Diversion Demand
June    July      August      September       October      November _ Dcomber
Mean TRnk Evaporation mm            95      95          108          127           121          117             138
_rops
Bananas (1,700 ha)
Coefficient                    1.0    1.0          1.0          1.0            1.0          1.0            1.0
mi/ha                      1,580  1,580        1,800        2,120         2,010         1,950          2,300
Total (1,000 m3)              2,686  2,686        3,060        3,604         3,417         3,315          3,910
Sugarcane (1,400 he)
Coefficient                    1.0    1.0          1.0          1.0            1.0          1.0            1.0
m3/ha                       1,580  1,580        1,800        2,120         2,010         1,950          2,300
Total (1,000 m3)              2,212  2,212        2,520        2,968         2,814         2.720          3,220
Cacoa (500 ha)
Coeificient                    0.7    0.7          0.7          0.7           0.7           0.7            0.7
m /ha       3               1,120  1,120        1,270        1,490         1,420         1,370          1,620
Total (1,000 mi)                560    560          635          745            710          685            810
Groundnuts (1,900 ha)
Coefficient                            0.4         0.7          0.8           0.8           0.5
m3/ha                                633        1,270        1,703         1,620         580
Total (1,000 m3)               1,202  2,413        3,225        3,098         1,102
Soybeans (1,300 ha)
Coeificient                            0.3         0.5          0.8           0.6
m /ha                                466         900         1,700         1,200
Total (1,000 m3)                        606        1,170        2,214         1,560
Vegetables (200 ha)
Coefficient                            0.4         0.6          0.6           0.5          0.5
m /ha                                633        1,080        1,390         1,008         975
Total (1,000 m3)                        126         216          278           201           195
Total Irrigation Require-
tent (1,000 m3)              5,458  7,392       10,014       13,044        11,800        8,027           7,940
System Loss (10%)            545    740         1,000        1.300         1,200         800              800
Total Diversion Demand
(1,000 m>)                  6,000  8,100      11,000        14,300        13,000        8,800          8,700
Total Diversion Demand
(m3/sec.)                    2.3    3.1         4.2           5.5           5.0          3.4            3.4
Duty (7,000 ha - 1/s/ha)       0.33   0.44         0.60         0.79          0.71         0.49            0.49
January, 8, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 1
ECUADOR
MILAGPD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(Sucres Million)           (US$ '000)
ITEM                             Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Main Canal
Rehabilitation of' Main Canal
and Anapoyo Intake                 0.25      1.00    1.25     10      40       50
Unit I
Distribution Systemr                   8.50     6.75   15.25    3140    270      610
Drainage System                        3.75     6.25   10.00    150      250     400
On-farm Development                    5.75     8.75   14.450    230     350     580
Roads                                 3.25      5.25    8.50    130      210     340
Unit II
Distribution System                    7.75     7.50   15.25    310      300     610
Drainage System                       3.25      5.50    8.75    130     220      350
On-faLam Development                   5.00     7.75   12.75    200      310     510
Roads                                  1.75     3.50    5.25     70    1140      210
Unit III
Distribution S'ystem                   5.25     5.75   11.00    210     230      4140
Drainage System                        3.00     5.50    8.50    120'    220      340
On-farn Development                    3.75     5.25    9.00    150      210     360
Roads                                  1.50     3.00    4.50     60      120     180
Total Civil Wbrks           52.77    71.77  1214.50  2,110   2,870  4)i,90
Buildings                             3.50      0.75    4.25    140       30     170
Eqquipment                             0.50    22.50   23.00     20      900     920
Sub-Total               56.75    95.00  151.75  2,270   3,800   6,070
Compensation for Crop Loss           10.00       -     10.00    L00     -        1400
Compensation for Land                  1.25      _      1.25     50     -         50
Adninistration and Supervision        19.00      -     19.00    760       -      760
Cbnsultant Services
Milag.o Project                         -       12.50  12.50      50     450     500
Feasibility Study for Ectension       12.50      7.50  20.00    500      300     800
Sub-total                   99.50    115.00 214.50  4,030   4,550   6,580
Contingencies
Physical                               5.75      2.00   7.75    230       80     310
Price                                 16.00     16.75  32.75    640      670   1,310
Total                      121.25    133.75 255.00  4,900   5,700  10,200
February 1, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table2
ECUADCR
MIIAGRO IRRIGATX   PROJ ST
Staff Reuuirwte
(during construction period)                         Amual
1979 1975                  1                   Total     Salary
------6i(aui year)________           (Sucres) iJ
ADMINISTRATION AND EN           - N                 -E E-ING
Project Headquarters
Project DLrector              1         1       1        1        1           5       216,000
- Administration Section
Chief                         1        1        1        1        1           5        86,000
l erk                         1        1        1        1        1          5         70,000
- aigineering Section
Chief                         1        1        1        1        1           5       144,,000
Assistant                      2        2       2        2        2          10        86,000
Draftman                      4         4       4        4        4          20        40,000
- Workshop
Chief                         1         1       1        1        1           5        70,000
Mechanic                      5         5       5        S        5          25        40,000
Construction
- Main works
Consultant                    1         1       1        1         -          4     1,000,000
Counterpart                    1        1       1        1         -          4       144,000
Surveyor                      2         2       2        2        -           8        80,000
- On-farm works
Consultant                     -        i       I        1         -          3    1,000,000
Counterpart                    -        1       1        3         1          4       144,000
Surveyor                      -        2        2        2        2           8        80,000
Boundaries Realignment
Chief                         1        1        1        1        1           5       144,000
Surveyor                      2         2       2        2        2         10         80,000
Social worker                 1         1       1        1        1           5        70,000
SUPPORTING SERVICES
Agricultural Production
- Management
General Mknager              -         1        1        I        1           4       160,000
Adviser (consultant)         -          1       1        1        1           4     1,000,000
Assistant                    -         I        1.       I        1           14      1144,000
Clerk                         -        2        2        2        2           8        70,000
- Workshop
Chief                         -        -        1        1        1           3        70,000
Mechanic                      -         -       2        2        2           6        40,000
Extension
Chief                         -        1        1        1        1           4       1144,000
Agents                        -         2       14       8       10          214       80,000
1/ Projected for 1973, at current prices.
May 18, 1973



ECUADOR
bII-GRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Administration, Engineering and Supporting Services Cost L
1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978        Total
---------------------(Thousand Sucres)-------------------------_
(a) administration and Engineering
i1nal Design                           1,700        -        -          -         -          -         1,700
Project Headquarters                     -       1,100    1,100        1,100     1,100      1,100      5,500
Construction 2/                                    300       600        600        600        300      2,100
Boundaries Realignment                   -          400      400         400        400       400       2,000
Sub-Total                     1,700     1,800    2,100       2,100      2,100     1,800      11,600
(b) Supporting Services
Agricultural Production Unit 2/          -          -        400         600       600        600       2,200
Extension                                           -        300         500       800      1,000       2,600
Sub-Total                       -         -         700      1,100      1,400     1,600       4,800
Direct Staff: (a) + (b)                1,700     1,800    2,800        3,200     3,500      3,400     16,400
General Expenses  /                      300        300    -400          500       600        500      2,600
Total                         2,000     2,100    3,200       3,700      4,100     3,900      19,000
US;C Thousand Equivalent                  80         80      130         150       160        160         760
1 Based on data presented in Table 2 of this Annex.
/ Cost of consultants' services not included.
/ Estimated at about 150/0 of direct staff cost.. It includes cost of auxiliary personnel, transportation,
office expenses, etc.
D3 1
December 13, 1972






ANNEX 5
Table 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Calendar Year             17       MA274    1975      1976     197       1978     Total
----------(Sucres Million )---------------
Civil Works
Rehabilitation of Headworke  -        0.25       -        -         -                 0.25
Unit I                        -       8.00      10.50     2.75      -                 21.25
Unit II                       -        -         3.75     8.25    5.75       -        17.75
Unit III                      -        -         -        -        2.00     11.50    13.50
Buildings                     _       1.00       1.00     1.50     _         -
Sub-Total                   -       9.25      15.25    12.50    7.75      11.50    56.25
Ec uipment
Construction                  -      55.00       5.50     5.00    5.00       2.00    72.50
Operation and Maintenance    -        -          -        2.25      -         -       2.25
Administration and Super-
vision                     -       2.00       2.00     4.75      -         -        8.75
Extensio:a Service            -       -          0.20     0.40    0.40        -        1.00
Agricultural Production
Unit                       -                  6.00     3.00    2.00        -      11.00
Sub-Total                   -      57.00      13.70    15.40    7.40       2.00    95.50
Compensation for Crop Lois       -       -          3.00     3.00    2.00       2.00    10.00
Compensation for Land            -       0.20       0.30     0.30    0.25       0.20      1.25
Consultant Services
Project Implementation        -       1.50       3.50     3.00    3.00       1.50    12.50
Feasibility Study             -       -          -       10.00   10.00        -       20.00
Administration and Supervision  1.50    2.50        4.00     4.00    4.00       3.00    19.00
Contingencies
Physioal                      -       -          1.50     2.00      2.50     1.75      7.75
Price                         -       4.00       5.00     8.00      9.50     6.25    32.75
Total                      1.750     0            7    5.250             28.20   255.00
..==.   ".em.      .s...    -aees.    WM_s.   s..s.    .....
US$ Equivalent ('000)             60    2,978      1,850    2,328    1,856    1,128   10,200
mma== s m===                == ens.    e==u =  555 m     ess==es



ANNEX 5
Table 2
ECUPADOR
MILAGiR0 IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
V
ITBFD Fiscal Year                        Camulative Disbursement
and 1-uarter                             at end of Quarter
(US$ Thousand)
1973/74
June 30, 1974                                     600
1574/75
September 30, 1974                              1,270
December 31, 197L4                              2,370
.rch 31, 1975                                   2,520
June 30, 1975                                   2,710
1975176
September 30, .975                              3,030
December 31, 1975                               3,160
Ynrch 31, 1976                                  3,380
June 30, 1976                                   3,550
976/77
September 30, 1976                              3,790
rLecem,ber 31, 1976                              3890
?Karch 31; 1977                                 4,120
June 30, 1977                                   4,290
Septem ber 30, 1977                             4, 480
Cecember 31, 1977                               4,520
1k1arch 31, 1978                                4,740
June 70, 197U                                   4,940
Se-,ember 30, 1978                              5,080
December 31, 1978                               5,110
;L~rcc 317 1979                                5,260
June '0, 19 )                                  5,5 oo
1/ Based on Construction Schedule (Chart 7273) and Estimated Schedule of
,-Fm vdUtlare (Annex 5, Table 1), with a six months lag from expenditure
to disbursement.
December 14, 1972



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultant Services
Part A. Implementation of Milagro Irrigation Project
1.         Consultant services would be provided to assist with three important
activities on the project, for which INERHI does not have sufficient previous
experience. The size and integrated nature of the project, which is beyond
the scope of previous INERHI operations, together with the restricted develop-
ment schedule imposed by the possibility to carry on operations during 6 to 7
months each year, makes it essential to provide experienced staff to supervise
certain operations. The terms of reference for the three consultants would be:
(a) Construction Superintendent - to assist with the management
and scheduling of construction and equipment operations, as
an advisor on construction methods, proper use and main-
tenance of equipment, coordination of work schedules and
equipment availability and the timely supply of materials
and supplies. To also assist in establishing schedules
and procedures for an operation and maintenance unit (Annex
7) and provide training to staff assigned to the unit.
(b)  Irrigation Engineer - to assist initially with on-farm
development as this relates specifically to land clearing
and leveling and layout of the tertiary and on-farm irri-
gation and drainage systems. For land-leveling, to assist
in determining the type of leveling needed, depending on
soils, terrain, method of irrigation to be used and crops
to be grown; to determine the appropriate scale and inten-
sity of field surveys for calculations of earth moving
quantities (mass diagram) and finish elevations; and to
organize equipment operations in the most efficient manner
so as to meet construction goals during each working (dry)
season. Upon completion of the civil works and on-farm
development in a given unit to provide training to farmers
and extension agents on suitable irrigation practices and
water-use for various crops and soil conditions and to
assist INERHI in establishing procedures for water manage-
ment, delivery schedules and measurement standards.
(c) Agricultural Production Specialist - To advise on manage-
ment of the Agricultural Production Unit. To coordinate
the activities of the unit, in close cooperation with the
Project Director, with the participation of BNE, INIAP,
the Ministry of Production and the Extension Service, to
provide farmers with the required supporting services.
The consultant would continue on the job until



ANNEX 6
Page 2
the end of the development period, at which time it is
planned the unit would be converted to a cooperative with
a manager to be selected by the members.
2.         The estimated schedule for provision of consultant services during
the development period is presented in the following table.
Type of                         Calendar Year   Man - Months
Consultant                       1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
Construction Superintendent         12    12    12    12
Irrigation Engineer                       12    12    12
Agricultural Production Specialist        12    12    12    12
Part B. Preparation of a Feasibility Study for Project Extension
eite initial feasibility study for the Milagro project by Chas. T.
Main, Int., included a proposal for groundwater development to supplement the
supply to the project and for an extension of the project to the south and
west into what is known as the Banco Arena Area. When it was determined sub-
sequently that the normal flow of the Rio Chimbo was adequate to serve a pro-
ject of 7,000 ha, this proposal was omitted in the request to the Bank for
financial assistance in developing the project. In lieu of this Government
proposed that the loan provide ftnds for a feasibility study for improvement
and extension of the Tabacundo project near Quito in the Central Highlands.
Investigations proved that this area was unsuitable for further irrigation
development. With agreement thiat the Guayas basin offered the best prospects
for irripatioo development and the use of external financial assistance for
this purpesee( Government proposed that basic investigations, surveys and stud-
les, leading to a feasibility study for extension of the proposed project, be
included inn Lhe credi.. agreement.
4,        The area proposed for the study would be 12,000 to 15,000 ha situated
south and west of the Milagro area, between the Milagro and Yaguachi rivers
and extending from the San Carlos Sugar Estate on the east to the village of
Yaguachi on the west. Conditions in this area are similar to those in the
ililagro area and would be favorable for intensive agricultural development
under irrigation. The critical factor would be the adequacy of the water sup-
ply. Preliminary investigations on groundwater potential by Chas. T. Main
confirmed that a groundwater reservoir was present in acquifers ranging to a
depth of 100 n. Further the groundwater level, as measured in five test wells
and 5 observation wells, ranged fronm 2 to 14 m below ground surface, with
artesian flow in one well. Pumping tests over 36 hours at a rate of about 16
liters/sec gave a maximum drawdown not exceeding 3 meters in any of the wells
and a specific yield averaging about 6 liters/sec/meter. This data indicated
tnat a substantial supply from grounduater would be available for irrigation,
however the number of wells and the duration of the tests were not sufficient



ANNEX 6
Page 3
to determine the sustained yield that could be obtained throughout the irri-
gable area, and consequently to determine the amount of land that could be
irrigated from this source of supply. It is proposed that further investiga-
tions with 10to 15 additional wells, tested at higher pumping rates and for
longer periods, should be the first step in confirming t*e water supply for
the proposed extension.
5.        Further there is the possibility that an additional supply could be
obtained fron the Rio Yaguachi. Full diversion of the Rio Chimbo, a tributary
of the Rio Yaguachi, for the proposed project, as well as San Carlos and
Valdez, would deplete the flow of this river, however it has other sizeable
tributaries, such as the Chanchan, which produce significant discharge.  The
investigati0n should, therefore, include a hydrological survey of the Yaguachi
system to determine the available flow that could be diverted for use in the
area of the proposed extension. The area to be served under the extension
would be determined by a water management study based on the combined capacity
and coordinated use of the two sources of supply.
6.       The basic investigations, surveys and studies would include the
following:
(a) hydrological and hydrogeological investigations and analyses;
(b) topographic, cadastral and land-use surveys on a scale of
1:5000 with one meter contours;
(c) semi-detailed soil and land classification surveys;
(d) investigations and surveys of flooding and drainage condi-
tions, as these could become critical factors in future
development;
(e) agricultural studies for an evaluation of possible crop-
ping patterns, production, costs, nrices, markets, need
for institutional and supporting services and organiza-
tional and management requirements; and
(f) socio-economic investigations and studies, as a basis to
evaluate the economic justification for further develop-
ment, from both the project and regional level, and to
identify the social and economic benefits that would
evolve from the proposed extension.
7.        On the basis of these investigations, surveys and studies, a plan
for integrated agricultural development of the area and a feasibility study
would be prepared, which would cover the subject matter normally included in
this type of report. The field investi-ations and studies and preparation of
the plan and report are estimated to require two years, to be undertaken dur-
ing the implementation period of the Milagro project and completed prior to
1978.  Tlis would make it possible, if the proposed extension is found feasi-
ble, to use equipment and staff from 1iilagro to continue with development of
the extension area. The estimated costs for carrying out this feasibility
study are presented in the following table:



ANNEX 6
Estimated Cost       Page  4
INELRHI     IDA
Iterm                                   ----(US   O0n)
Consultant cervices (see schedule below)                 10         300 /1
Equipment and Supplies, Including Well Drilling
and Testing Equipment                                  20         200 /1
Survevs (by Local Contract), Topographic,
Cadastral, Soils and Land-use                          10         200 /2
Participation of ITERHI with Technical and
Administrative Staff and Services on Surveys,
0:udies, Designs, Cost Estimates, Drafting,
Data Collection and Preparation and Printine
of Reports                                            260          -
Total          300         700
/1 Foreign Exchange Cost.
72  Local currency cost which would be financed by lLA credit.
6.                      Schedule for Consultant Services
Consultant              1976          1977           Total
--man-months--
Hiydrogeologist          12            12              24
flydrologist              3             9              12
DIrilling
Superintendent         6             6               12
Soil Scienitist                        12              12
Agronomis t
(Irrigation)                        12              12
Agri cul,tural
EcoIIomist                           12              12
8.        The main items of equipment required would be for the groundwater
explorations, such as a rotary drilling machine, casing, bits, test pump, air
compressor, electric well logger, truck, pickups and minor equipment.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
Under the law authorizing the creation of Irrigation Districts, INERHI
is empowered to administer and supervise all activities for integrated agricul-
tural development within the limits of a project area. This would include the
organization and supervision of supporting services for agricultural development,
implementation of the civil works and operation and maintenance of the irriga-
t2on and drainage systems and roads. Operation and maintenance, in addition to
the maintenance of works, would include the granting of water utilization rights,
the allocation and scheduling of water deliveries and the collection of project
charges. Under the project, staff and equipment would be provided to adequately
carry out these operations. Annual operation and maintenance costs for the
7,000 ha project at full development are estimated as shown below:
Estimate Annual
Personnel                                   Number               Cost - US$
Operator, tractor and loader              1                   4,000
Operator, grader                          1                   3,200
Operator, excavator                       1                   3,600
Operator, dragline                        1                   3,600
Drivers, truck, dump                      2                   4,000
Driver, truck, stake                      1                   2,200
Chief watermaster                         1                   4,800
Watermasters (Units I, II and III)        3                    9,000
Gatetenders                              10                  10,000
Mechanics                                 2                   4,800
Laborers, skilled and unskilled          10                   8,000
Clerks                                    2                   4,000
Secretary                                 1                   1,800
Sub-total         63,000
Depreciation on Equipment                                           20,000
Equipment Operation and Maintenance
(Fuel, oil, grease, spare parts)                                 28,COO
Materials and Supplies                                               6,000
Total Annual Cost             117,000
Average Annual Cost/ha        US$  17
or Sucres           425



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.         The list of equipment attached to this Annex presents the estimated
equipment needs for all activities except the feasibility study, which would
be undertaken on the project. This includes construction, administration and
supervision, extension services and the machinery and facilities required by
the Agricultural Production Unit. The equipment to be provided for seed pro-
duction by INIAP is also included. The list for operation and maintenance
equipment is in addition to the heavy equipment that would become available
for this purpose from the construction equipment upon completion of the civil
works.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
Page a
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment
Estimated Cost
Number      CIF - US$'000
1. Construction
Loader, track type, 1 m3                           1                30
Loaders, wheel type, 1 m3                           2               50
Crushing and screening plant,
portable, 25 m3/hr.                             1               140
Scrapers, tractor, 15 m3                           2               140
Landplanes, heavy duty, tractor
pulled, rotating blade, 5 m                     3                60
Tractors, 180 hp., angle
dozer, track type                               4               240
Tractor, 270 hp. track type,
with angle dozer and root rake                  1                80
Graders, wheel type, self
propelled, 125 hp., 12 ft. blade                3               100
Excavators, backhoe, track
type, 3/4 m3                                    3               225
Excavators, gradall type, i m3                     2                75
Dragline, 3/4 m3, 40 ft. boom                       1               90
Roller, sheepfoot, tractor pulled,
double drum                                     4                20
Rollers, drum type, self propelled                 4                80
Trucks, dump, 6 m3                                12               120
Trucks, tank, water sprinkling                      3               45
Truck, tractor, flat bed, dual
axle trailer, 25 tons                           1                30
Trucks, pickup, 1 ton                               8               30
Trucks, stake body, 4 tons                          3               20
Pwnps, water, portable, 2 inch, with
engine and hose                                 3                 5
Tractors, wheel type, 70 lp.,
(to be supplied from farm
machinery pool)                                4         (See equipment list for
agricultural machinery)
Mixers, concrete, portable, 1 m3                    6               30
Mixers, concrete, portable,  i m3                   6               20
Truck, with tank, 8,000 liters                      1               10
Compactors, earth, motor driven                    6                15
Vibrators, concrete, both cylinder
and screed type                               15                20
Mobile servicing unit                               1               15
Tanks, water, portable, 2,000 liters               10                8
Miscellaneous tools and small equipment           Lot               20
Sub-total                             1,718
Contingencies and spare parts (20%)                                345
Total                                 2,063



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Estimated Cost
2.  Operation and Maintenance                         Number     CIF - US$OO00
Shop and seervicing equipment
including gasoline and oil storage and
pumps, welding machines, compressor,
lubricating  equipment and tools               1 Lot             30'
Motorcycles                                        15               12
Vehicles, station wagon 4-wheel drive               2                8
Vehicles, pickup                                    6               20
Radio, control unit                                 1               6
Radio, portable                                    15                8
Current meters, water measurement                   1               6
Sub-total                                    90
(Heavy equipment for operation and maintenance would be
provided from construction equipment).
3. Administration and Supervision
Office equipment                                1 Lot              15
Engineering equipment                           1 Lot             18
Labo-ve'ey7 equipment (INERHI)                  1 Lot             30
'^"Wory equipment (INIAP)                   1 Lot              15
Vehicles, pickup, 4-wheel drive                    6               24
Vehicles, pickup, standard                         6               20
Vehicles, station wagon                            2               8
Sub-total                                  130
(Includes equipment and vehicles for administration, engineering,
bocundary realignMent, and consultants)
il extension Sernlce
Vehicles, Wtillity, 4-wheel drive                 4               13
Vehicles. sta-;iOn wagon                           1                3
Motor cyc.les                                      4                4
MN sc elarieoxus laboratory and field equipment   Lot             20
Sub-total                                   40
,-i, utura Machinea
Trac)rE., wheel, agricultural, rear wheel
½,ve, diesel, 70 hp                             30              165
cirt.-- ines, self -propelled, for rice and
5';3a})f harvesting,13 feet                      3               28
wo.rx.le. har-9ster, 3 row, maize                 1                4
Womnoines, harvester, groundnuts                  5               25
Planters, combination, with toolbar and
attachments for maize, soybeans,
groundnuts and fertilizers                        3               3
Drill, combination fertilizer and grain,
13 feet                                          2                2
Diggers, groundnuts, with inverter               10                2
Plows, disc, heavy duty, 4 furrow                 18              20
Harrows, disc, tandom, heavy duty, 12 feet         8               6
Rotavators, hoiward type, 6 feet                   5               8



ANN7X ;
Tab]a I
Estimated Cost Pag 3
Agricultural Machinery Continued                       Number       CIF - US'000
Trailers, flatbed, towing,  4-wheel, 5 ton           15                6
Trailers, flatbed, towing, 4-wheel, 3 ton             5                2
Silos, metal, round, demountable,
200 ton capacity                                    856
Dryers, soybean, groundnuts, grain
8 tons/hour                                         2               26
Trucks, stake bed, 5 ton                              5               35
Equipment f'or seed preparation and
storage (INIAP)                                   Lot                2
Contingencies and spare parts                       Lot               30
Sub- Total                                    44°
Total (Excluding construction
equipment).                     700
December, 20, 1972






ANNEX 8
ECUADOR                                                Table 1
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cropping Pattern with Project
A.  Unit Data                                                                                                 Net
Gross Value            production Costs                  Value of Production (t;Zr)
Crop                   Yield     Price       of Production
(ton/ha)   (S/ton)                            (S)- I     m)1(                                      (L)-_/
----------------_---_-----(Sucres/ha)-------------------------------------
Perennials
Sugarcane 2/            100.0       110         11,000               -       5,800      5,800       -        5,200      5,200
Bananas                  30.0       900         27,000           19,100    19,100    19,100       7,900      7,800      7,900
Cocoa                     1.0   12,000           12,000              .       5,500      5,500        -       6,500      6,500
Annual, Wet Season
Rice                      4.0    1,900           7,600            4,100      4,100      3,300     3,500      3,500      4,300
Maize                     3.6    1,500           5,400             2,700     2,600      2,600      2,700     2,800      2,800
Vegetables               15.0    1,600          24,000           13,600        -          .      10,400        -          -
Annual, Dry Season
C-oundnuts                2.5    4,000          10,000             3,700     3,700      3,200     6,300      6,300      6,800
-ovbeans                  2.0    4,000           8,000            3,200      3,200     3,200      4,800      4,800     4,800
Vegetables               18.0    1,800          32,400           16,800        -          -      15,600        -          -
B. Project Area
Crop                            Small Faruks.          Medium Farms          Large Farms                   Total
Area       NVP          Area        NVP        Area         NVP         Area         NVP
(ha)     (S7Tuillion)  Tha)    (S/ million)  (ha)    (S/ million)   (ha)          (S/mllion)
Sugarcane                    -           -           900         4.7        500          2.6        1,400         7.3
Bananas                     400         3.2          500         3.9        800          6.3        1,700       13.4
Cocoa                        -           -           200          1.3       300          2.0          500         3.3
Rice                        700         2.5          500          1.8       700          3.0        1,900         7.3
Maize                       400         1.1          300          0.8       600          1.7        1,300         3.6
Vegetables (Wet Season)    200          2.1           -            -         -            -           200         2.1
Groundnuts                  (700)       4.4         (500)         3.2      (700)         4.8       (1,900)       12.4
Soybeans                   (400)        1.9        (300)         1.4       (600)        2.9       (1,300)        6.2
Vegetables (Dry Season)   (200)         3.1           -            _         _            _          (200)        3.1
Total             1,700        18.3       2,400         17.1      2,900        23.3        7,000        58.7
Cropped Area              3,000                    3,200                  4,200                    10,400
Cropping Intensity (,)      176                      133                    145                       150
1/ S, M and L stand for small, medium and large farms, respectively.
2/ Sugarcane would be grown in specialized farms under contract with
the Valdez Sugar Factory.
December 13, 1972



ECUADOR
1LAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production Costs
Crop                       Seeds      Fertilizer-/   Pesticides        Marketing                     Machinery                             Labor                              Total
(All Farm Sizes)----------------                             (S)          (M)         (L)         (S)         (M)       (L)         (S)         (M)         (L)
--------S------c------e-------------a---------------------------(Sucres/ha)--------------------------------------
Perennials
Sugarcane                    500        3,100             400              -               -           600        600           -        1,200      1,200           -        5,800       5,800
Bananas                      700        1,200           2,100            9,000            200          200        200         5X900     5,900       5,900       19,100      19,100      19,100
Cocoa                        900        1,000              500             200             -           100        100           -        2,800       2,800                    5,500       5,500
Annual. Wet Season
Rice                        400           400              200             200            200          200        600         2,700      2,700       1,500       4,100       4,100       3,300
Maize                        100          400              300             200            200          5w0        700         1,500      1,100         900        2,700       2,600       2,600
VegetablEs                   100        1,800           2,600            3,500            200           -           -         5,400        -           -         13,600         -         -
Annual, Dry Season
Groundnuts                  400           700              100             300            300          300        700         1,900      1,900       1,000        3,700       3,700       3,200
Soybeans                    400           700              100             300            200          500        600         1,500      1,200      1,100        3,200       3,200        3,200
Vegetablee                   100        2,400           3,300           6,000             200           -           -        4,800         -           -        16,800          -         -
1/ Fertilizer   Prices (ex-warehouse Guayaquil)
Fertilizer                 S/kg
3.2t;
15-15-15                  3.24
12-24-8                   3.39
18-46-0                   3,56
Superphosphate (477)      3.02
Urea                      2,87
S04(NR4)2                 2.22
ClK                       2.43                                                                                                                                                &ii
December 13, 1972



ANNEX 8
Table 3
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
3.4 ha Farm Budget
Gross
Valye
Proouction
Area    Yield      Price      (GVP)     Inputs         Gross Benefit
Tha7    (Ta)   (Titanh)            (S/ha )-----     (Per ha)    Toal
--Sucres-
Bananas                 0.8      30.0       900       27,000    13,200     13,800       11,000
Rice                    1.4       4.0     1,900        7,600     14,00       6,200       8,700
Maize                   0.8       3.6     1,500       5,400      1,200       4,200       3,400
Vegetables (wet season) 0.4      15.0     1,600       24,000     8,200     15,800        6,300
Gr'iimdnuts            (1.4)      2.5    4l,000      10,000      1,800       8,200      11,500
So,ybeans               (0.8)     2.0     4,000        8,000     1,700       6,300       5,000
Vegetables (dry season)(J0.)    18.0      1,800       32,400    12,000      20,400       8,200
Total             3.4                                                             54,100
Cropped Area            6.0
Cropping intensity (%) 176
Sucres        3ucres
Gross Farm Benefit                                           54,100
Less:
APU Services                              2,700
Interest on short-term  credit            1,500
Total                                                     4.200
Net Farm Benefits                                            49,900
Project Charges J/
Irrigation Services
Operation and Maintenance              1,450
Towards Investment Recovery            3,650
Total                                                  5 100
Net Farm Income
Estimated Present Income                                      8 000
Incremental Net Income
Production costs, excluding labor costs.
No "betterment levy" would be imposed  to farms lesser than 10 ha.
May 16, 1973



ANNEX 8
Table74
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATICW PROJECT
12 ha Farm Budget
Gross
Value of
Production
Area     Yield      Price      (GVP)    In uts       Gross Benefit
~    (ton/lha)   (S/t)    -----                    (Per ha)   (Total)
(Sucres)
Bananas                    4.0      30.0       900       27,000   13,200      13,800     55,200
C,ocoa                    1.6        1.0    12,000      12,000    2,700        9,300     14,900
Rice                       4.0       4.0     1,900        7,600    1,400       6,200     24,800
Maize                      2.4       3.6     1,500        5,400    1,500       3,900      9,400
Groundnuts                (4.0)      2.5     4,000       10,000    1,800       8,200     32,000
Soybeans                  (2.4)      2.0     4,000        8,000    2,000       6,000     14,400
Total              12.0                                                           150,700
Cropped Area             18.4
:ropping intensity (%)   153
Sucres        Sucres
Gross Fhrm Benefit                                         150,700
Less:
Hired Labor (800 man-days)               241,000
APU Services                              7,500
Interest on short-term credit             4,700
Total                                                   36.200
Net Farm Benefits                                          114,500
Project Charges
Irrigation Services
Cperation and Maintenance              5,100
Towards Investment Recovery           12 900
Sub-Total
Betterment Levy                           1,200
Total                                                   19,200
Net Farm Income                                             95,300
Estimated Present Income                                    30,000
Incremental Net Income                                      65,300
J Production costs, excluding labor costs.
May 16, 1973



ANNEX 8
Table 5
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
24 ha Farm Budget
Gross
Value of
Production
Area    Yield     Price      (GYP)     Inputs        Gross Benefit
ha (ton/ha) (S/ton)  ------a) -ha   -       (Per ha)    (Total)
t  ---(Sucres)-------
Bananas                8.0       30.0      f900     27,000    13,200        13,800     110,400
Cocoa                  3.0       1.0    12,000      12,000     2,700         9,300      27,900
Rice                   7.0        4.0     1,900      7,600     1,800         5,800       40,600
Maize                  6.0        3.6     1,500      5,400     1,700         3,700       22,200
Groundnuts            (7.0)      2.5      4,000     10,000     2,200         7,800      54,600
Soybeans              (6.0)      2.0     4,000       8,000     2,100         5,900      35,400
Total          24.0                                                             291,100
:'pped Area         37.0
(ropping intensity (%) 154
Sucres          Sucres
Gross Farm Benefit                                         291,100
Less:
Hired Labor (2,000 man-days)          60,000
APU Services                          14,000
Interest on short-term credit          9,900
Total                                                   83,900
Net Farm Benefits                                          207,200
Project Charges
Irrigation Services
Operation and Maintenance          10,200
Towards Investment Recovery        25.800
Sub-Total                          A6000
Betterment Levy                        4,800
Total                                                   40,800
Net Farm Income                                            166400
Estimated Present Income                                    50 000
Incremental Net Incme 1a16,400
lJ Production costs, excluding labor costs.
May 16, 1973






ANNEX 9
Page 1
ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Mfarket Prospects for Export Crops
Bananas
1.         With a total production fluctuating around 2.5 million metric tons,
bananas are the most important crop in the Ecuadorian economy, generating
about US$ 112 million (1971) or almost 50% of total foreign exchange earnings.
Banana exports have sharply increased after World War II from 170,000 ton in
1959 to a present level of about 1.3 million ton, making Ecuador the first
exporter country.
2.         Until the mid sixties, Gros Michel was the only banana variety
grown for export, with production centered in the highlands, where rainfall
and other conditions were favorable. However, market preferences and the
appearance of Panama disease imposed a shift to the Cavendish variety, of
much higher yield. Both the producers and the exporters adapted rapidly to
the change, establishing plantations under irrigation in the Costa and setting
up packing plants.
3.         Government's policy is to restrict expansion of banana plantations
in view of the equilibrium supply-demand reached at present. Export trend
largely depends on the supply situation in other producer countries, and
Ecuador is expected to keep firmly her position in the world market. Proj-
ections for 1977 call for an increase in export of some 100,000 ton over the
present level of 1.3 million ton. This implies an expansion of about 3,500
ha over the present cultivated area. The incremental Cavendish area assigned
to the Milagro project is about 1,200 ha or, roughly, one-third of the ex-
pansion foreseen for 1977. Considering that full production would be achieved
in 1983 (six years after the date of reference of the expansion cited above),
and that the production cost in Milagro (about S/12.5 per box of 43 lb, in-
cluding carton) is considerably lower than current production cost (S/15-17),
the production of Milagro project should not have market difficulties.
Sugarcane
4.         The sugar trade picture has drastically changed from the "disaster
situation" of the mid sixties to a currently firm position and a bright outlook.
With world wide consumption growing at an annual rate of about 3% through the
next ten years, production of sugar should increase by almost 40% and short-term
forecasts for non-quota prices indicate a firm trend upward from the present
level of US8 cents/lb.
5.         Up to now, sugar prices and export taxes have not enabled Ecuador to
enter into the non-quota market on a large scale. However, the Ecuadorian
sugar industry is efficient and, with the expected increase of non-quota prices,



ANNEX 9
Page 2
an increase in exports is expected. In spite the export taxes (24% of FOB
price), sales to Europe have started, so confirming the trends. It is also
expected that export prospects be enhanced by a probable gradual decrease of
export taxes.
Cacao
6.        The world market for cacao is fairly strong but Ecuwdor, which until
the mid-1950's was a major exporter, has experienced difficulty in maintaining
previous production levels and holding its share of the market. This has been
due to disease problqms and old groves, which lowered both yields and quality.
Production and quality have been improving slightly in the last few years with
new plantings and more emphasis on research by INIW to develop disease re-
sistant clones and new hybrids. A USAID financed program is providing assist-
ance for rehabilitating existing groves and new plantings. The 500 ha planned
for the project would be new plantings to replace old trees in the mixed
groves, which would be eliminated. The project output would represent a
small increase of present production but quality is expected to improve, which
would satisfy the stapdards for the export market and no difficulty is antici-
pated r-w  e marketing standpoint.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ECUADOR
IaLAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.         In calculating the economic rate of return the following assumptions
have been made:
(a) Costs during the construction period (1973-1978) are
those shown in 'Estimated Schedule of Expenditures'
(Annex 5, Table 1), expect:
(i)  farm machinery, whose depreciation is included
in on-farm production costs;
(ii)  consultants fee for feasibility study for project
extension; and
(iii)  price contingencies.
(b)  Cost during the development period include full costs of
administration, supporting services, and operation and
maintenance of project facilities. No deductions have
been made for present expenditures related to these
concepts, since they are nil or negligible;
(c)  For commodities subject to international trade, prices
used in the economic analysis have been based on the
current forecasts for 1980 of the Bank's Economic
Department. Wholesale prices derived from such
forecasts and used in the economic analysis are
compared below with domestic wholesale prices used in
the financial analysis.
Financial          Economic
Commodity            Anal sis           Analysis
___-7(US$ per m/ton-----
Sugarcane               4.4                 8.3
Bananas                36.0                36.0
Cocoa                 480,0               480.0
Rice                   76.0                95.0
Maize                  60.0                73.0
Groundnuts            160.0               180.0
Soybeans              160.0               125.0



ANNEX I0
Page 2
(d) Production costs include on-farm anu marketing costs.
Since no subsidies or direct taxes affect such costs,
prices used in the economic analysis are the same used
in the financial analysis. Additional labor (both
family and hired) over the without project require-
ments, has been fully costed at current wage rates.
(e)  The "without project" net value o  piroduction has been
estimated as the difference between gross value of pro-
duction (at economic prices) and the estimated subsistence
cost of the farm family.
(f)  The project's economic life has been assessed at 40 years.
It is assumed that, in any g       lrve  l¢nd, full production
would be reached by the fifth yFar of receiving irrigation;
since physical execution of project works would be completed
in 6 years, full benefits would be reached by the 11th
year; and
(g)  Since the equipment purchasedi  or constructiotn would be
used only partly in the project, the residual value of
the equipment to be used elsewhere  estimated at 40% of
its original cost, has been credited to the project at
the end of the construction priod,.
Table 1 presents the streams of cost and beiief its derived upon the
above assumptions. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 16%.
2.         To measure the project's sensitivity to deviations from the basic
assumptions, three adverse cases have been examiAed; these are:
Rate of Return (Z)
(a) Case I, a two-year delay in project
implementation together with a 20% increase
in project costs;                                   12
(b) Case II, a 50% reduction in the double
cropped area, lowering the overall cropping
intensity to 124%; and                              11
(c)  Case III, a 10% decrease in prices.                 11



ANNEX 10
Table 1
ECUADOR
MilAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs and Benefits Streams
Net
Year                   Project Costs                      Value of Production            Net
IqWlem.ntation    Developmnnt   Total   Without  With       Incre-   Project
Period            Period              Project  Project  mental   Benefits
-----------------------------(S/ millin) -------------------
1973  (1)               2.0                -          2.0    23.8       23.8      _         (2.0)
1974  (2)              72.6                -         72.6    23.8       23.8      -        (72.6)
1975  (3)              27.6                -         27.6    23.8       23.8      -        (27.6)
1976  (4)              29.2                -         29.2    23.8       17.5     (6.3)      (35.5)
1977  (5)              31.8              1.1         32.9    23.8       21.5     (2.3)      (35.2)
1978  (6)              20.8              2.2         23.0    23.8       33.6      9.8       (13.2)
1979  (7)                -               4.9          4.9    23.8       63.9 4J 40.1         35.2
1980  (8)                -               4.9          4.9    23.8       60.1     36.3        31.4
1981  (9)                -               4.9          4.9    23.8       70.3     46.5        41.6
1982  (10)               -               4.9           4.9    23.8      74.2     50.4        45.5
1983-2012 (11-40)        -               4.9           4.9    23.8      77.6     53.8        48.9
1J Includes S/ 17.3  dllion, residual (40% of original) value of comstruction equipment
other than that to be used for Operation and Maintenance.
Deceiber 15, 1972






ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION
|INERHi
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
|MiLAGRO IRRIGAITION DiSTRICT|
PECT DIRECTOR
CONSULTANT                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONSULTANTS
Management of APU                            ..AgrItural Prduction Unit  |Operaton and Maintenance Suction        Administration Section           Engineering and Conuction Section      n rIn 
Ma,k.ti.g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mciey prto
TraoPeri,ivt                             n l                                                                                   | Deyelopment |      | BoundeDfp to i
Ministry of
Agri=oiBcre &
Lietc                                                                                                                                                World Benk-7fE8lR)






ECUADOR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
ITEM OF WORK                                                                                                                                          __
1973               1974               1975                1976                1977               1978               1979
Engineering and Supervision for                        _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _    _
Construction
Rehabilitation of Main Canal
and Intake Structure
Unit I
Irrigation Systemn
Drainage System
On-Farm Development
Roads
Unit 11
Irrigation System
Drainage System
On-Farm Developmnent
Roads
Ujnit )il
Irrigation System
Drainage System
On-Farm Development
Roads
Buildings (Project Headquarters)
Realignment of Boundaries
Consultant Services                         l    _ _ _ _    _  _            _ _                                                                -    - _
World Bank -7273






''                                                                                                                             f   f    PV    P    {f  )    A   )   delissfed tHg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B m b ro nd|
; :                                                                                                   ,~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   U   M IA D R    C I R   R               M .N RJC
Supply for ValdezcoTh                                                                                             a.ctr0o0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                              tp pIy   lor o        * V-St de   4 ;Ft;K-s      /a                sfMunste                                      Mo j o T
N cdeierad toMilogro
ECUADOQR
MILAGRO IRRIGATION PROJECT
r                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed canals
Valdez                                                                                                                                           ........... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed ronds
Plantation                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rive's cand st(eams
26-- Cos1)turo in MetenS
Nararojila~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iE



