CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 425 EC
Project Agreement
(Milagro Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS
DATED AUGUST 17, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 425 EC
Project Agreement
(Milagro Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS
DATED AUGUST 17, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS (hereinafter called
INERHI).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Ecuador (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to INERHI, through the Borrower, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand dollars
($5,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that INERHI agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS INERHI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) INERHI shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency, under competent management and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4w
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, INERHI shall (i)
establish and maintain, until Parts A and B of the Project are completed, a separate
account for the purpose of recording all amounts credited to and disbursed for
the carrying out of such Parts of the Project, including such sub-accounts as shall
be agreed from time to time between the Association and INERHI (hereinafter
called the Project Account); and (ii) deposit in the Project Account, on or before
March I in each year, until such Parts of the Project are completed, such amounts
as INERHI shall have determined, in consultation with the Association, that shall
be necessary during such year for the carrying out of such Parts of the Project
in accordance with the preceding paragraph (a) of this Section; provided, however,
that the initial deposit in the Project Accoint may be made on any other date,
for purposes of Section 8.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02 In order to assist INERHI in the carrying out of Part A.8 of
the Project, INERHI shall (a) employ agricultural and engineering consultants, all
acceptable to the Association, to an extent and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers, and (b) submit to the
Association, not later than June 30, 1975, the proposed terms of reference for
such consultants.
Section 2.03. INERHI shall:
(a)   establish, not later than January 1, 1975, and maintain until Parts
A and B of the Project are completed, an internal unit to (i) procure, organize
and furnish to farmers participating in the Project selected agricultural supplies
and materials, drying, storage and transport facilities, agricultural machinery services
and marketing assistance and (ii) to be responsible for the carrying out of Part
B.1 of the Project (hereinafter called the Agricultural Production Unit);
(b)   create the position of Project Director, such Project Director to have
overall responsibility for the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project, to
report directly to the Director Ejecutivo of INERHI and to be appointed by
INERHI in consultation with the Association;
(c)   employ three agricultural and engineering consultants, acceptable to
the Association, to an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to act as advisers to the Project Director respectively on (i) execution
of farm irrigation works, (ii) management of the Agricultural Production Unit and
(iii) supervision of construction for Parts A. I through A.5 inclusive of the Pro'ect;
such consultants to be employed not later than March 1, 1974 for purpos s of
sub-paragraph (iii) and not later than March 1, 1975 for purposes of sub-paragrphs
(i) and (ii); and


﻿5
(d)   replace such consultants with INERHI's own personnel after the
Association and INERHI shall have agreed that such personnel have acquired the
experience required for the purpose.
Section 2.04. In carrying out Parts A.1 through A.5 inclusive of the Project,
INERHI shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association to an extent and
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of experts and consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the
basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) INERHI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by INERHI to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, INERHI shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) INERHI shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   INERHI shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿6
Section 2.08. INERHI shall: (i) enter into the Transfer Agreement with the
Borrower; (ii) apply the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
under the Transfer Agreement exclusively to financing the cost of goods and services
required to carry out the Project; (iii) duly perform all its obligations under the
Project Implementation Agreements and the Transfer Agreement; and (iv) not take
or concur in, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project
Implementation Agreements or the Transfer Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. INERHI shall take or cause to be taken all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.10. INERHI shall: (i) take all such timely action as shall be required
to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to Section 3.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement; (ii) establish the basic irrigation entitlement
for each farm within the Project Area, before each such farm is ready to start
receiving irrigation; (iii) record and register the water allocation for the Project
Area and such farms' basic irrigation entitlements and take all such other measures
required under Decreto Supreno No. 369 and Decreto Supremo No. 40 or any
other legislation of the Borrower as may be then applicable and, thereafter from
time to time, to maintain and renew such rights; and (iv) create one or more
Directorios de Aguas as may be necessary for the purpose, pursuant to such
legislation.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of INERHI
Section 3.01. INERHI shall operate and maintain all its equipment and
property and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
and at all times manage its affairs and operate its property and equipment in
accordance with sound administrative and technical practices.
Section 3.02. INERHI shall: (a) take all feasible measures to ensure that the
execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard to ecological
and environmental factors; and (b) not permit that (i) the water flow of the Rib
Chimbo or of other rivers supplying water to the Project Area be depleted, unless


﻿7
the Association shall otherwise agree, below the minimum water requirements of
thu Project Area, or (ii) the waters of such rivers be polluted in any way which
might have an adverse effect on the agricultural development of the Project Area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. INERHI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. INERHI shall: (a) have the records referred to in Section
2.07(b)(i) of this Project Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish to the Association as sooni as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of its records for such year as so audited, and (ii) a signed copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such records and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from  time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. INERHI shall: (i) establish and operate the Crop Compensation
Fund in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement; (ii) establish, in consultation with the Association, the amount of
compensation payable to each farmer eligible therefor on the basis of the value
of the crop being compensated, as such value shall have been established by a
committee composed of the general manager of the Agricultural Production Unit,
the chief of the extension services to be provided under Part A.7 of the Project
and a third member elected by the farmers participating in the Project; and (iii)
pay such compensation as shall have been established in accordance with paragraph
(ii) of this Section  to such   farmers as are eligible therefor, prior to the
commencement upon such farmers' land of the works described in Part A.3 of
the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) INERHI shall, from time to time, take all such action as
shall be necessary or advisable to cause its charges for irrigation services and
betterment levies imposed within the Project Area to be set and maintained at
such levels as shall provide INERHI with such revenues as shall be sufficient to
(i) cover the operatio- , administrative and maintenance expenditures of INERHI
in, or for the benefit of, the Project Area and (ii) recover, within not more than


﻿8
forty years, such substantial proportion of the amounts spent by INERHI in the
carrying out of Parts A. 1 through A.6 inclusive of the Project, as shall be satisfactory
to the Association and INERHI.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, INERHI further
undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)          such charges and levies shall, initially, be set at the following
minimum levels:
(1)    in the case of charges for irrigation services, (A) 500 Sucres
per each irrigated hectare, during the first calendar year
after such hectare starts receiving irrigation; (B) 750 Sucres
per each irrigated hectare during the second year; (C)
1,000 Sucres per each irrigated hectare during the third
year; (D) 1,250 Sucres per each irrigated hectare during
the fourth year; and (E) 1,500 Sucres per each irrigated
hectare during the fifth year and during each calendar year
thereafter until the fortieth such year inclusive; and
(2)   in the case of betterment levies, during the first calendar
year after each hectare starts receiving irrigation and
during each calendar year thereafter until the fortieth such
year inclusive, (A) no levy in farms of up to 10 hectares;
(B) 100 Sucres yearly per each hectare in farms of more
than 10 and up to 20 hectares; (C) 200 Sucres yearly
per each hectare in farms of more than 20 and up to
50 hectares; and (D) 400 Sucres yearly per each hectare
in farms of more than 50 hectares; and
(ii)         INERHI shall, in consultation with the Association:
(1)   review, on or before December 31, 1978, and at regular
intervals thereafter, the then current level of charges for
irrigation services and betterment levies taking into
account such factors as farm size, income received and
taxes paid by the farmers participating in the Project, and
the need to maintain economic incentives for such farmers;
and
(2)   make, promptly after each such review, such adjustments
in such charges and levies as shall be necessary to comply
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿9
(c)   For the purpose of setting or adjusting the charges and levies provided
for in this Section, INERHI shall:
(i)         adjust, not later than December 31, 1975, and annually
thereafter, the charges and levies referred to in paragraph (b)(i)
of this Section, or those prevailing at the time of such
adjustment, to such extent as shall be necessary to maintain,
in terms of Sucres of December 3 1, 1972, an amount equivalent
to the amounts referred to in sub-paragraph (b)(i) of this Section,
such equivalent to be determined in accordance with such
indexing procedure as shall be agreed between the Association
and INERHI not later than December 31, 1975; and
(ii)        determine the amounts actually spent and to be recovered in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, such amounts to
be calculated in accordance with such revaluation procedures as
shall be agreed between the Association and INERHI not later
than December 31, 1978, on the basis of constant prices as of
the date when the expenditures were actually incurred.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and INERHI shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and INERHI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Project Agreement, the performance by INERHI
of its obligations under the Project Implementation Agreements and the Transfer
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of INERHI and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and INERHI shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Project Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and INERHI of their respective obligations under the Project Implementation
Agreements and the Transfer Agreement.
Section 5.03. INERHI shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all sites, works, properties and equipment of INERHI and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Project Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If,
pursuant to Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate, the Association shall promptly notify INERHI of this
event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations
of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.02. (a) This Project Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of INERHI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty five years after the date of this Project Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify INERHI of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Project Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For INERHI
Instituto Ecuatoriano
de Recursos HidrAulicos
Riofrfo 314
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
INERHI
Riofrfo 314
Quito, Ecuador
Section 7.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of INERHI, may be taken or executed by the Director Ejecutivo of
INERHI or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
(b)   Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents
required or permitted to be executed, on behalf of the Borrower, pursuant to
Section 2.09 of the Development Credit Agreement may be taken or executed
by the Director Ejecutivo of INERHI or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 7.03. INERHI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of INERHI, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by INERHI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Project Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Project Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Project Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO ECUATORIANO
DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS
By /s/ Arturo Lecaro
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
A.    General Rules
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more:
(a)   Before inviting bids, INERHI shall send to the Association for its
approval, (1) the lists of equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies, showing the
specifications and the estimated unit and total price, grouped in lots to permit
such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement
practices and (2) in respect of equipment for the Agricultural Production Unit,
a detailed proposal describing the requirements for farm machinery services, rates
for machinery rental to farmers, maintenance facilities to be set up, schedules for
machinery use and organizational procedures to be followed. Amendments to such
lists and proposal, which may be made from time to time, shall also be submitted
to the Association for approval.
(b)   Before bids are invited, INERHI shall furnish to the Association, for
its approval, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, INERHI shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.05 of this Project Agreement, promptly inform INERHI
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association


﻿14
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment, vehicles, materials and
supplies, procurement shall be through normal commercial channels on the basis
of at least three bids. INERHI shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its exccution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of this Project Agreement, promptly inform INERHI and state the reasons
for such determination.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to INERHI
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation
of bids in accordance with paragraphs 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Category I of the table set forth in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, INERHI may grant a margin
of preference to goods manufactured in Ecuador and to goods manufactured in
countries which are a party to the Latin American Free Trade Association or to
the Andean Group in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ecuador, if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of INERHI
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ecuador equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in Ecuador, other
than bids classified in Group A.


﻿15
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country
(other than Ecuador) which is a party to the Latin American
Free Trade Association or to the Andean Group and entitled
to preferential tariffs thereunder.
(4)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the first comparison under paragraph (b) above, the
lowest bid is a bid from Group C or Group D, all Group C and Group D bids
shall be further compared with the lowest bid from Group A, as determined under
paragraph (b) above, after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported
offered in each Group C and Group D bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of goods offered in such Group C or Group D bid, or (ii)
15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid or a Group C bid
is the lowest in such further comparison, it shall be selected for purposes of award.
(d)   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (c) above,
a bid from Group D is the lowest, all Group D bids shall be finally compared
with the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group D
bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller
of (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in such
Group D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the Group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such Group
D bid. If the lowest bid in such comparison is the Group C bid, it shall be selected
for purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from Group D, as determined under
paragraph (b) above, shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


