CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 425 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Milagro Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 17, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 425 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Milagro Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 17, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos
Hidrdulicos with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrdiulicos the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos
Hidrdulicos;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 is deleted and paragraph (i) thereof
becomes paragraph (h); and
(c)   the words ", the Project Agreement" are inserted after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" wherever they occur in Sections 6.06 and 8.02.


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrdulicos of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Transfer Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrdulicos pursuant to Section
3.01(b) of this Development Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Transfer Agreement;
(c)   "INERHI" means Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrdulicos, an
instrumentality of the Borrower, established in accordance with Decreto No. 1551
of the Borrower, dated November 10, 1966;
(d)   "IERAC" means Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforna Agraria y
Colonizaci6n, an instrumentality of the Borrower, established in accordance with
Ley No. 155 of the Borrower, dated July 11, 1964;
(e)   "Project Implementation Agreements" means the several agreements
entered or to be entered into, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, for the purpose of assisting INERHI in the carrying out of the Project,
between INERHI and, respectively, Instituto Ecuatoriano de Refbrma Agraria y
Colonizaci6n, Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias, the Ministerio
de Agricultura y Ganader'a of the Borrower, Federaci6n de Cooperativas
Agropecuarias y de Mercadeo and Banco Nacional de Fomento;
(f)   "Project Area" means an area of about 8,000 hectares lying on both
banks of the Milagro River, the boundaries of which area being: at north, the
proposed alignment of the northern-most branch of the main canal; at north-east,
the Estero Anapoyo; at south-east, the proposed alignment of the southern-most
branch of the main canal; at south, the Quito-Guayaquil railroad tracks, the Estero
Papayal and the Estero Galdpagos; and at west, the eastern boundary, as of the
date of this Development Credit Agreement, of Ingenio Valdez;
(g)   "Agricultural Production Unit" means the unit provided for under
Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement;


﻿5
(h)   "Project Director" means the director referred to in Section 2.03(b)
of the Project Agreement;
(i)   "Project Account" means the account provided for under Section
2.0 1(b)(i) of the Project Agreement; and
(j) "Crop Compensation Fund" means the fund provided for under
Section 3.05 of this Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand
dollars ($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1979, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. rhe Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1983, and ending April 1, 2023,
each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 1993, to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. INERHI is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause (i) INERHI to carry out Parts
A and B of the Project and (ii) Banco Nacional de Foinento to carry out Part
C of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency, under competent management
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and technical practices, and
shall provide, or cause INERHI and Banco Nacional de Fomento to be provided
with, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit to
INERHI under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and INERHI
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
(hereinafter called the Transfer Agreement).
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Transfer Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Transfer Agreement, the Project Implementation Agreements or any provision
thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to perform their respective obligations


﻿7
under the Project Implementation Agreements and to enable INERHI to perform
all of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Transfer Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.
Section 3.02. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
allocate, or cause to be allocated, to the Project Area not less than forty per cent
(40%) of the water flow available at any time from the Rib Chimbo, as measured
at Bucay.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take, or cause IERAC to take, all such
timely action as shall be necessary to ensure that (i) title to the lands within the
Project Area has been granted to each farmer participating in the Project and that
such grant of title has been duly recorded or otherwise adequately protected under
the laws of the Borrower, not later than January 1, 1975; and (ii) whenever any
realignment of farm boundaries deemed necessary by INERHI to carry out Part
A of the Project results in an exchange of property in excess of a land swap and
involves a net gain of land by one or more participating farmers at the expense
of one or more of such farmers, IERAC shall acquire such land and transfer title
thereon to the farmer designated by INERHI for the purpose.
Section 3.04. Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section
3.02(a) and (b) of this Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall provide
INERHI, promptly as needed, with such funds as shall be required (i) by INERHI
to carry out its obligations pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement;
and (ii) to enable JERAC to perform the obligations of the Borrower pursuant
to Section 3.03(ii) of this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) cause INERHI to establish, not later
than March 1, 1975, and maintain until at least the completion of Part A.3 of
the Project a special fund to compensate farmers participating in the Project for
the value of crops not produced during the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project
(hereinafter called the Crop Compensation Fund); and (ii) provide the Crop
Compensation Fund with such amounts as shall be required to pay such
compensation at least ninety days prior to the date when such compensation is
payable, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary on its part to enable
INERHI to maintain such charges for irrigation services and such betterment levies


﻿8
as shall be required for INERHI to comply with the provisions of Section 4.04
of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Transfer Agreement, the performance by any department or
agency of the Borrower and INERHI of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement, the Project Implementation Agreements and the Transfer
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of INERHI and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower other than INERHI responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borroyver, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
INERHI and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower other than INERHI responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of their respective obligations under
this Development Credit Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower or any
department or agency of the Borrower of their respective obligations under the


﻿5'                                  9
Project Agreement, the Project Implementation Agreements and the Transfer
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of INERHI and any relevant records
and documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agre ement, the Project Agreement,
the Project Implementation Agreements and the Transfer Agreement shall be free
from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Development Credit Agreement shah occur and shall
continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit Agreement
notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿10
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
(i) on the part of INERHI, under the Project Agreement or under the Project
Implementation Agreements or under the Transfer Agreement, or (ii) on the part
of the Borrower (including any department or agency of the Borrower) under the
Transfer Agreement or under the Project Implementation Agreements;
(b)   the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
reorganization of INERHI or for the suspension of its operations;
(c)   either of (i) Decreto No. 1551 of the Borrower, dated November 10,
1966, or (ii) Decreto Supremo No. 369 of the Borrower, dated May 18, 1972
or (iii) Decreto Supreno No. 40 of the Borrower, dated January 18, 1973, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of INERHI to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement and in the Transfer
Agreement; and
(d)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that INERHI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or under the Transfer Agreement or under the Project Implementation
Agreements.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and INERHI; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) or in paragraph (c) of Section
7.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
INERHI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;


﻿11
(b)   the Transfer Agreement has been executed and delivered on behalf
of the Borrower and INERHI, respectively, and such execution and delivery have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the Project Implementation Agreements have been executed and
delivered on behalf of INERHI and each one of the other parties thereto,
respectively, and such execution and delivery have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(d)   INERHI shall have established the Project Account and the Borrower
shall have deposited in such account at least 14,000,000 Sucres; and
(e)   INERHI shall have made the first appointment to the post of Project
Director.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, INERHI, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of INERHI in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Transfer Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and INERHI, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and INERHI in
accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the Project Implementation Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, INERHI and
each one of the other parties thereto, respectively, and constitute valid and binding
obligations of INERHI and each one of such parties in accordance with their
respective terms.
Section 8.03. The date of November 15, 1973, is hereby specified for the
pumposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(c),
3.01(d), 3.02 and 4.01 of this Development Credit Agreement and the provisions
of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty five years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿12
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministro de Finanzas of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
MINFINANZAS
Quito, Ecuador
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿r                                 13
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Alberto Quevedo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Equipment, ve-               3,800,000           100% of foreign
hicles, materials                               expenditures or
and supplies                                    80% of local ex-
penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
1I.  Consultants and
Experts' Services
(a)  Engineering and           500,000          100% of foreign
supervision                                expenditures
(b)  Feasibility               300,000          100% of foreign
Studies for                                expenditures
Part A.8 of
the Project
(c)  Field Surveys             200,000          95% of local
for Part A.8                               expenditures
of the Project
III.  Unallocated                   700,000
TOTAL        5,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the   term  "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿15
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement;
and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable


﻿16
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Categories I or
11(c) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to any such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under any such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in the integrated irrigation and agricultural development
of about 7,000 hectares within the Project Area, and includes the following parts:
Part A:      1.    Rehabilitation of the existing main canal and intake structure.
2.    Construction of irrigation and drainage systems and roads to
serve the area to be irrigated, with outlets to each of the 825
farms included therein.
3.    Carrying out of on-farm development works, including, inter alia,
land clearing, land leveling and construction of farm ditches and
drains.
4.    Realignment of existing farm boundaries to the extent required
for the appropriate carrying out of the works described in Parts
A.1, A.2 and A.3 and the efficient operation thereof.
5.    Construction of buildings to provide headquarters for project
administration, the Agricultural Production Unit and the
extension service, warehouse and storage space and a
maintenance shop.
6.    Acquisition and use of equipment for construction, operation
and maintenance, administration and agricultural development.
7.    Provision   of  agricultural  extension   services  to  farmers
participating in the Project.
8.    Carrying out of a feasibility study for the extension of the
Project Area to about 22,000 hectares.
Part B:      1.    Production of a basic supply of improved seeds for farmers
participating in the Project and carrying out of a seed
multiplication program.
2.    Training of extension    agents and   farmers at the Boliche
experimental station.
Part C:     The provision of agricultural credit for production inputs.


