F'L-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3947-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
November 22, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1.00 Kyat = US$0.14
K 7.20    = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)            =  0.305 meters (m)
1 acre (ac)            =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi) =  2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)  =  0.0283 cubic meters (m3)28.32 liters (1)
1 cubic yard (cu yd)  =  0.765 cubic meters (m3)
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)   =  12,344 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot per
second (cfs)       =  0.0283 m3/sec
1 pound (lb)           =  0.453 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                  =  1,000 kilograms
1 Imperial gallon (Ig)=  1.2 US gallons = 4.5460 liters
1 million Imperial
gallon (IMg)       =  4,546.0919 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot per
second (cfs)       =  28.3161 liters per second (1/sec)
1 acre-foot per year
(ac-ft/yr)         =  1,233.4818 cubic meters per year
I Imperial gallon per
minute (Igm)       =  4.5460 liters per minute (1/m) (m3)
1 Imperial gallon per
capita-day (Igcd) =  4.5460 literes per day (1/cd)
1 million Imperial
gallons per day
(IMgd)             =  4,546.0919 cubic meters per day (m3/d)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Acronyms Used for Government Organizations
AC      -   Agricultural Corporation
AFPTC   -   Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AMD     -   Agricultural Mechanization Department
ARD     -   Agricultural Research Division
ARI     -   Agricultural Research Institute
CC      -   Construction Corporation
ED      -   Extension Division
GAD     -   General Affairs Department
HD      -   Housing Department
HVS     -   Horticulture/Vegetables Section
ID      -   Irrigation Department
MAB     -   Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MHRA    -   Ministry of Home and Religious Affairs
MPF     -   Ministry of Planning and Finance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PIC     -   Project Implementation Committee
PMEU    -   Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SLRD    -   Settlement and Land Records Department
TexCorp -   Textile Corporation
TDC     -   Township Development Committee
Acronyms Used for Government Officials
PEM     -   Project Extension Manager
SMS     -   Subject Matter Specialist
TEM     -   Township Extension Manager
VEM     -   Village Extension Manager
VTEM    -   Village Tract Extension Manager
Abbreviations and Other Acronyms
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
HYV     -   High Yielding Variety
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
LSC     -   Long-Staple Cotton
M       -   Million
MSC     -   Medium-Staple Cotton
MSL     -   Mean Sea level
O&M     -   Operation and Maintenance
PS      -   Prudent Shopping
PV      -   Present Value
PW      -   Present Worth
SCF     -   Standard Conversion Factor
SV      -   Switching Value
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND  .....................................                         1
General  ........1.........................................                        I
Agricultural Sector .....................................                          1
Irrigation Subsector  ....................................                         2
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector  ......................                         2
IDA's Involvement  .......................................                         3
Project Formulation and Preparation  .....................                         3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA  ........................................                         4
Introduction  ............................................                         4
Climate  .................................................                         4
Topography  ..............................................                         5
Soils and Land Suitability  ..............................                         5
Existing Irrigation Facilities  ..........................                         5
Land Tenure  .............................................                         6
Population and Farm Size  ................................                         6
Present Agricultural  Situation  ..........................                        6
Agricultural Supporting Services  ........................                         7
Rural Credit  ............................................                         8
Transportation  ..........................................                         8
Existing Water Supply and Sanitation in Mudon  ....                 .......        9
III.   THE PROJECT        .............................................                    9
General   .................................................                        9
Principal Project Features  .....             .......................              9
Detailed Description of Project Features  .............               ...         10
(a)  Kinmundaung Dam and Reservoir  ....................                       11
(b)   Azin Dam and Reservoir  ...........................                      11
(c)   Kinmundaung Irrigation and Drainage System .......                       11
(d)  Azin Irrigation and Drainage System  ....                 ..........      12
(e)  Mudon Water Supply System ........................                        12
(f)   Water Courses and Field Ditches  ..................                      12
(g)  Construction Camp and O&M Headquarters  ....                .......       13
(h)  Agricultural Extension  ...........................                       13
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission that visited Burma in
November/December 1981 comprising Messrs S.J. Baker, H. Azumi, J. Kampen, and
Ms. J.P. Tan (IDA), and Mr.J.W. Robins (Consultant), and Messrs. D. Campbell
and A. Zagni (FAO/CP), and of a follow-up mission in February/March 1982 by
Messrs S.J. Baker, T. Skytta and K. Stichenwirth (IDA).



-2-
Table of Contents  (Cont-d)                                                           Page No.
(i)   Agricultural Research  ............................                        14
(j)   State Orchard Farm  ...............................                        14
(k)   Strengthening of Implementing Agencies  ....                 .......       14
Status of Field Investigations, Surveys and Designs ......                          16
Water Demand, Supply, and Quality (Irrigation &
Urban Use) .............................................                         17
Equipment and Vehicles  for Construction ..................                         18
Cost Estimates  ..........................................                          18
Financing.19
Fiacn   ........................................................               1
Implementation  ..........................................                          20
Procurement  .............................................                          20
Disbursements  ...........................................                          21
Budgeting,  Accounts and Audits  ..........................                         21
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................                           22
Implementation Responsibility  ...........................                          22
Project Management  and Coordination  .....................                         24
Operation and Maintenance  ...............................                          24
Monitoring and Evaluation  ...............................                          25
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY ....                           26
Agricultural Development With the Project  ....                   ...........       26
Agricultural Development Without  the Project  ....                  ........       26
Overall Agricultural  Impact  .............................                         27
Marketing and Pricing of Project Output ..................                          27
Farm Income  .............................................                          29
Agricultural Cost Recovery  ..............................                          31
Financial Aspects of Mudon Town Water Supply  ....                   ........       32
VI.   BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  .......................                         33
Overall Impact  ..........................................                          33
Employment  Effects  ......................................                         34
Household Income Effects  from Irrigation  ....                   ............      34
Direct Foreign Exchange Effects  .........................                          34
Environmental Effects . .........................   35
Benefits  to the Economy and Economic Analyses  ....                  .......       35
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests  .....................                          37
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................                           38



-3-
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  Project Area Data
Table 1  -  Climatological Data
Table 2  -  Population and Farm Size Distribution
Table 3  -  Summary of Dam, Reservoir and Irrigation System Data
Table 4  -  Irrigation Water Requirements
Table 5  -  Simulated Reservoir Operation
Table 6  -  Mudon Town Water Supply, Water Demand and Production Projections
Table 7  -  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Table 8  -  Crop Input Requirements Per Acre
Chart 1  -  Crop Calendar - Kinmundaung
Chart 2  -  Crop Calendar - Azin
Chart 3  -  Implementation Schedule - Kinmundaung
Chart 4  -  Implementation Schedule - Azin Dam and Irrigation Facilities
Chart 5  -  Implementation Schedule - Mudon Town Water Supply
Chart 6  -  Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Material
Chart 7  -  Training Schedule for Implementing Agencies
ANNEX 2  -  Costs and Expenditure Data
Table 1  -  Summary Cost Estimates
Table 2  -  Kinmundaung Cost Estimates
Table 3  -  Azin Cost Estimates
Table 4  -  Mudon Water Supply Cost Estimates
Table 5  -  Strengthening of Implementing Agencies, Cost Estimates
Table 6  -  Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
Table 7  -  List of Equipment
Table 8  -  Schedule of Expenditures
Table 9  -  Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Table 10 -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 3  -  Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
ANNEX 4  -  Economic and Financial Analyses
Table 1  -  Prices Used in Farm Budget and Economic Analyses
Table 2  -  Farm Budget and Rent Estimates
(a) Kinmundaung
(b) Azin - Paddy
(c) Azin - Private Orchard Farm
(d) Azin - State Orchard Farm
Table 3  -  Present Value of Project Incremental Cost Recovery
Table 4  -  Summary Benefit and Cost Streams and Economic Rates
of Return
Table 5  -  Sensitivity Tests (Switching Values)
ANNEX 5  - Mudon Town Water Supply Financial Analyses
Table 1  -  Proforma Income Statements
Table 2 -  Assumptions on Financial Forecasts



-4-
ANNEX 6  -  Organization Charts
Chart 1  -  Irrigation Department (Construction Organization)
Chart 2  -  Irrigation Department (O & M Organization)
Chart 3  -  Agricultural Corporation
Chart 4  -  Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
ANNEX 7  -  Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 16262  -  Kinmundaung Irrigation Subproject
IBRD 16263  -  Azin/Irrigation and Multi-use Facilities
IBRD 16388  -  Mudon Town Water Supply Main Features



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.01    Since 1962, Burma's guiding philosophy known as "Burmese Way to
Socialism" has reflected a combination of traditional Burmese values and
socialist doctrine. Under this philosophy, public ownership of all sectors
of the economy has increased, and greater equality in income has been
achieved. However, the policies adopted have resulted in depressing Burma's
annual GDP growth, which averaged only 2.7% during the 1960s and early 1970s,
or little more than the prevailing population growth rate of 2.2% p.a. during
that period.
1.02    Faced with this unsatisfactory performance, the Government of Burma
(GOB) initiated a series of reforms in the early 1970s to stimulate economic
growth, cautiously liberalizing its policies and opening up the economy to
increased foreign assistance and capital. Some of its primary actions were
to substantially increase agricultural investment and agricultural procure-
ment prices and launch a major program to increase paddy yields. This
approach proved generally successful, and growth in agriculture since 1975
has been impressive. The GDP growth rate during the first three years of the
Third Four-Year Plan (1977/78-81/82) averaged about 6.5% p.a. without sig-
nificant inflation. However, Burma still remains one of the poorest nations
in the world as measured by per capita GNP (about US$180 in 1981 compared to
more than US$670 in neighboring Thailand). Sustaining the current economic
momentum should not be difficult given Burma's vast development potential
within its 260,000 sq mi area, a highly literate and mainly rural (75%)
population of 34 M (end 1980), and a relatively low population density of 120
per sq mi.
Agricultural Sector
1.03    Agriculture (including livestock, forestry and fisheries) is the
principal sector of the economy, accounting for about 45% of GDP in 1980/81,
65% of the labor force, and 80% of total exports. Rice is the major export
commodity and is a significant source of government revenue. Rice is planted
on 55% of the total cultivated area and accounts for more than one-third of
total agricultural output. Other important crops include oilseeds (18% of
the gross sown area), pulses (7%), industrial crops (5%), and plantation
crops (5%).
1.04    Although favorable weather conditions played a part, the recent
improvement in agricultural production is mainly attributable to the mass
introduction of high yielding rice varieties through the Whole Township
Extension Program and to expanded irrigation. Under the extension program,



-2-
increased amounts of improved seeds, fertilizer and other inputs were made
available at subsidized rates and extension services were intensified. The
program was initiated in one village in 1975/76 but has since been expanded
to cover 72 townships (46% of the area sown to paddy) and other crops have
been included. National paddy production increased by 41% (from 9.3 M tons
to 13.1 M tons) during 1977/78 to 1980/81.
Irrigation Subsector
1.05    Annual rainfall ranges from 20-40 inches in the Central Dry Zone to
160-240 inches along the coastal areas of Arakan and Tenasserim, concentrated
mainly in the monsoon period from May to October. There is practically no
rain from December to March. The heavy monsoon rainfall permits cultivation
of a main season rainfed paddy crop in most parts of the country except the
dry zone. In the Central Dry Zone, where rainfall is insufficient and
unevenly distributed, supplemental irrigation is essential for paddy produc-
tion in the wet season. Even in the highest rainfall areas, irrigation is
necessary to ensure a productive dry-season crop.
1.06    Of the 20 M ac net cultivable area, 2.5 M ac were irrigated in
1980/81 versus an average of 2.1 M ac during the previous ten years. Since
1961/62, about-270 Government irrigation and flood protection projects with a
total irrigable area of 390,000 ac and a flood- protected area of about
890,000 ac have been completed by the Irrigation Department (ID). These
projects have increased the total irrigable area under Government schemes to
about 1.4 M ac and the flood- protected area to 2.7 M ac. Nearly 60% of the
Government irrigation schemes are diversion schemes on five main tributaries
of the Irrawaddy River. Private initiatives in irrigation at the community
and individual level include village diversion schemes covering about 700,000
ac, widely dispersed in the Dry Zone, and village tank schemes covering about
120,000 ac, largely concentrated in upper reaches of the Dry Zone catchment
areas.
1.07    Having utilized most of the run-of-river diversion potential in the
central dry zone, GOB is now shifting its emphasis to storage development
for perennial irrigation. Two major multi-purpose dam projects (Kinda and
Sedawgyi) are under construction. GOB's current priorities are for smaller
storage developments which would diversify its investment in irrigation to
areas in need of improvement not covered previously.
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
1.08    In Burma about 26 million people live in some 65,000 rural villages
and about 8 million in 288 urban areas. Over 80% of these urban areas have a
population below 20,000. About 14% of the rural population have access to
safe water supply through use of about 7,000 tubewells. The rest of the
rural population relies on pollution-prone shallow open wells, ponds, irriga-
tion canals and rivers. In urban areas, about 35% of the population in 63
towns have access to a safe water supply, of which 60% live in Rangoon and
Mandalay, the two major cities. Most systems provide only a few hours of
water per day, mostly through standpipes. Including the rural population,
nationwide coverage drops to about 19%. Rural sanitation service is



-3-
estimated to cover about 15% of the population, whereas urban areas have
about 33% coverage. Enteritis and Diarrhea have been identified as the main
diseases among out-patients nationwide and are the second leading diseases
among hospital in-patients. Rangoon is the only place having a water-borne
sewerage system, with a coverage of about 10% of its population. In other
towns, including Mandalay, the sanitary facilities in use range from surface,
pit and bucket latrines to septic tanks. Nationwide service coverage is
estimated to be about 20%.
1.09    GOB has set year 1990 service development targets of 50% and 54% for
the water supply and sanitation sectors, respectively. It is estimated that
investments of about US$320M for water supply and US$190M for sewerage
development (1981 prices) would be required to meet planned service targets.
The program includes 30 towns for water supply improvements, in addition to
Rangoon and Mandalay. GOB's Environmental Health Program for FY82/83 to
FY85/86 includes construction of 700,000 latrines in rural areas and 105,000
in urban areas, in addition to providing sanitary facilities to a large
number of schools, hospitals and rural health centers.
IDA's Involvement
1.10    IDA has encouraged GOB to give more priority to agricultural develop-
ment. Since 1973, 19 IDA Credits totalling US$517.3 M have been approved for
Burma, nearly 55% of which were for agriculture. These agricultural projects
include a large multipurpose dam, small pumps for lift irrigation, livestock,
paddyland development, seed development, rubber rehabilitation, forestry, and
grain storage.
1.11    IDA does not yet have any lending operation in Burma for water
supply/sanitation projects, due mainly to lack of sector information and
adequately prepared project proposals. The proposed inclusion of an urban
water supply component under an irrigation project is expected to be the
first step to future water supply sector operations financed by IDA in Burma.
Project Formulation and Preparation
1.12    IDA participation in tank irrigation projects was first proposed by
GOB in 1978 for a series of small storage and irrigation schemes in Magwe
Division in the central dry zone. The IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program assisted
ID in project preparation. In mid-1980, GOB added to its development
priority tank irrigation in Mon State in the southern coastal area, compris-
ing a series of small storage and irrigation projects with possibilities of
providing an urban water supply to nearby towns. First priority was given to
development of the Kinmundaung scheme in the Magwe Division and the Azin
Scheme in the Mon State, since they were in a more advanced stage of prepara-
tion. The ID submitted feasibility reports for Kinmundaung and Azin schemes
in 1981. The Housing Department (HD) of the Ministry of Construction sub-
mitted a separate feasibility report for Mudon in April 1982.



-4-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction
2.01    The proposed project would benefit two distinctly different regions
of Burma. The Kinmundaung subproject lies within Taungdwingyi Township in
Magwe Division in the dry zone of central Burma (Map IBRD 16262). The Town-
ship's largest center, Taungdwingyi, lies about 180 miles north of Rangoon.
About 5,400 persons live in the project area and the population density is
about 225 per sq mi, almost twice the national average. About 80 percent of
the population is engaged in agriculture. Per capita income is less than 300
kyats (US$42) per year, less than one fourth of Burma's national average.
The project area, covering 5,000 acres on both sides of the Kinmundaung
River, is fertile, flat and ideally suited for cultivation. However, because
of scarce and unevenly distributed rainfall, yields in the area tend to be
low and cultivation is limited to the monsoon season.
2.02    The Azin subproject is located in Mudon Township within the southern
coastal area of Mon state (Map IBRD 16263). The area comprises a narrow
low-lying coastal plain bordered by terraces rising to the western slopes of
Taungnyo Hills. The irrigation command area has a population of about 2,200
and Mudon Town about 40,000. In contrast to the Kinnundaung area, the Azin
area has abundant rainfall, principally concentrated in the June-October
period. Other than perennial orchard crops, agriculture is generally limited
to a single rainfed paddy crop on the lower-lying lands within the area.
Less than half of the population is engaged in agriculture but because of the
lack of irrigation during the dry season, a large segment of the farming
population must seek seasonal off-farm employment outside the area. The
annual per capita income in the irrigation command area is estimated to be
K 730 (US$104) and in Mudon K 1,000 (US$140).
Climate
2.03    The warm, tropical climate is favorable for crop production
throughout the year in both subproject areas (Annex 1, Table 1). In the
Kinmundaung area annual rainfall averages about 38 inches usually between
mid-May and end-October. However, dry periods of up to 15 days are not
uncommon and wet season crops normally suffer significant yield reductions
without supplemental irrigation. In the dry season, irrigation is essential
for all proposed crops. Mean temperatures in the Kinmundaung area vary from
about 72°F to 930F.
2.04    In the Azin area rainfall is much higher, averaging about 186 inches
annually, and occurs mostly during early May to mid-October. Rainfall during
this period is normally sufficient to meet water requirements of all crops.
Irrigation is essential, however, for all proposed crops during the dry
season. Temperatures in the Azin area vary from means of 72°F to 890F.



-5-
Topography
2.05    Irrigable lands in the Kinmundaung area are flat to slightly undulat-
ing, sloping gradually from east to west. The area is dissected by several
streams generally running from east to west. Micro-surface undulations have
formed some low, slow-draining pockets as well as high spots which are dif-
ficult to irrigate.
2.06    The proposed Azin command area also slopes gradually from east to
west and is divided by natural westerly-flowing streams. Uplands in the
eastern part of the area, mostly uncultivated or comprising orchards or
rubber plantations, are gently rolling. The remaining area (alluvial plain
of the Salween River) is relatively flat.
Soils and Land Suitability
2.07    Kinmundaung.  Soils of this area are alluvial (loam to silty clay
loam) and even the heavier soils are such that tillage by draft animals is
possible even in unsaturated conditions. The soils are fertile and charac-
terized by high moisture retention capacity and well suited to growing a wide
variety of crops under irrigation. With adequate fertilization and depend-
able irrigation, paddy, cotton, sesame, groundnuts, maize and pulses can all
be grown satisfactorily, and a high cropping intensity seems feasible.
2.08    Azin.  The proposed Azin command area includes about 1,000 ac of
free-draining upland soils located along the foothills and a much larger
low-lying area of heavy-textured marine-alluvial soils along the Salween
River. The upland soils are of variable fertility, with orchards and gardens
cultivated in the more fertile areas, rubber on the less fertile alluvium,
and no cultivation of the least fertile soils. About 75% of the lands
proposed for irrigated orchards are highly suitable for irrigated fruit tree
crops and the remaining 25% have minor limitations in terms of depth and/or
drainage characteristics. No serious erosion problems are envisaged on these
permiable soils of limited slope when cultivated to treecrops with intercrop-
ping. The low-lying lands along the Salween River are typically
recently-deposited clay alluviums and are highly suitable for paddy cultiva-
tion, with excellent yield potential. The transitional lands lying between
the uplands and low-lying coastal alluvial areas have lighter texture and
could produce sunflower, pulses, groundnut and/or vegetable crops.
Existing Irrigation Facilities
2.09    Kinmundaung.  Existing irrigation facilities in the Kinmundaung area
include a diversion weir located about four miles downstream from the
proposed storage dam, two main canals serving the left and right bank command
areas and farmer-constructed distribution ditches serving about 1,000 ac.
The diversion weir would require modification as well as repairs to serve the
enlarged project area. The two main canals are about 4,000 ft long and were
originally designed for capacities of 100 cfs. They would require desilting
and reshaping and would need to be extended to serve the proposed project
area, with new control and turnout structures. The existing distribution



-6-
system is completely inadequate (both in size and location) and would need to
be totally replaced.
2.10    Azin.  Existing irrigation facilities in the upland areas consist of
a few small farmer-constructed ditches leading from natural drainage channels
and some dug wells constructed to irrigate fruit trees and garden plots.
There are no irrigation facilities in lowland paddy areas.
Land Tenure
2.11    Land reform laws and regulations enacted from 1953 to 1963 provided
for the nationalization and re-distribution of land to tenants and hired
workers. Village land committees were established to assign cultivation
rights, organize the collection of land revenue and settle disputes on land
problems. The Settlement and Land Record Department (SLRD) of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) was entrusted with responsibility to
administer the program at the national level. The Local Land Revenue Offices
of SLRD are responsible for administration at the State or Division level.
Individual land ownership is not permitted except for small plantations of
tree crops. The allocation of land to a farm family is generally limited to
what the family can cultivate. Village Land Committees customarily assign
the rights of deceased cultivators to sons or other family members. Subdivi-
sion or fragmentation of land holdings is a continuing problem and most
farmers' holdings consist of small, non-contiguous plots. Families with no
cultivation rights work as hired farm laborers.
Population and Farm Size
2.12    Data on population and farm size for the project areas are summarized
in Annex 1, Table 2. While reliable statistics on unemployment and under-
employment are not available, field surveys indicate that surplus labor
exists in the project area. In Kinmundaung virtually the entire population
depends on agriculture for a livelihood, while in Azin some farmers engage in
additional part-time activities such as weaving or work elsewhere as hired
laborers.
2.13     The average farm size in both areas is smaller than the national
average, e.g. about 5 ac in Kinmundaung and 8 ac for paddy and 2.5 ac for
orchards and vegetables in Azin. Most of the upland areas in Azin (where
orchard crop are proposed) are not presently cultivated or are in old rubber
plantations. About one-third of the upland area is owned by GOB and
two-thirds by private individuals, with holdings averaging about 4.4 ac.
Present Agricultural Situation
2.14    Cropping Patterns and Yields.  Cropping patterns for various regions
in Burma are centrally determined in Rangoon by GOB. Farmers generally must
grow at least one mandated crop such as paddy, Long Staple (LS) cotton,
groundnuts or sesame. They are, however, allowed certain flexibility to grow
crops such as vegetables, maize, beans, fruit trees, etc. Present average
cropping intensity in the proposed Kinmundaung command area is about 85%, the
main crops being paddy, sesame, maize, country bean, other pulses, and small



-7-
areas of sugarcane, groundnut and sunflower. Currently about one quarter of
the total area is devoted to sesame from May to August, followed by tran-
splanted paddy in about half of the area. Rainfall deficiencies and the
unreliability of present irrigation systems often result in much of the paddy
being short of water in the later part of the season, resulting in very
variable yields. Less than 25% of the paddy is currently sown to HYV. If
moisture is judged to be insufficient for upland paddy, it is replaced with
beans planted in mid-September and harvested in December. In a relatively
small area, beans are also grown as a second crop after early harvested
maize.
2.15    Average yields in the Kinmundaung service area are low and and
extremely variable, and in bad years the area actually harvested of the area
sown is relatively small. These factors reduce incentives for using pur-
chased inputs such as chemical fertilizer. Except in Special HYV areas,
fertilizer use is generally inadequate and is a limiting factor to improved
yields in years when rainfall is sufficient.
2.16    The Mon State coastal plain,  which includes the proposed Azin serv-
ice area, is cultivated almost totally to paddy during the wet season. Except
for some shallow wells, there are no irrigation facilities in the low lying
paddy areas and most of the land lies fallow during the dry season. In
addition to lack of irrigation water, physical properties of these coastal
clays are a major barrier to expansion of the area planted to upland crops in
the dry season, particularly if such crops are to be cultivated in rotation
with paddy. Heavy texture, subsoil salinity and slow permeability pose
difficult management problems for crops other than lowland paddy.
2.17    The cultivated higher elevation terrace lands in the Azin area are
planted to mixed crops. Generally, orchards (banana, coconut, durian, jack-
fruit, pomelo, etc) and vegetables are grown near villages and rubber on
adjacent foothill slopes. The orchard and vegetable crops are partially
irrigated during the dry season from shallow dug wells. Estimated yields of
different crops grown in the Azin area are summarized in Annex 1, Table 7.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.18    The Agricultural Corporation (AC) has responsibility for agricultural
research and extension in Burma. Within AC, two research divisions are
operative, the Applied Research Division (ARD) at Gyogon (Rangoon) and the
Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) at Yezin. The Extension Division (ED)
is also located at Rangoon.
2.19    The ARD administers 24 seed farms and 18 central farms scattered
throughout of the country. Its objectives are to multiply and produce high
quality seed. The farms are organized by crop; those producing paddy,
groundnut, cotton, jute and sesame are receiving development support,
improved facilities and technical assistance from IDA (Cr.745-BA). The
central farms have responsibility for plant breeding, crop selection, yield
testing, cultural and fertilizer experiments and training of extension
managers. The ED has responsibility for implementing agricultural plans,



-8-
procuring and distributing agricultural supplies, and disseminating research
information to farmers.
2.20    In terms of the research work carried out by crop, paddy takes
priority while cotton and groundnut receive more limited attention; few
researchers work with sesame. Although cotton production technology is
known, major steps in making inputs available and strengthening extension
services remain to be taken. Near Azin, there is one central farm primarily
for paddy, although some preliminary experiments on upland crops such as
maize, sesame and sunflower also have been conducted. The proposed project
would strengthen activities at this central farm.
2.21    A central orchard farm (165 ac) is located at Kangalay, just south of
Mudon. The farm was set up in 1956 and now has well-established orchards of
coconut, durian, rambutan and cashew. Besides research on the performance of
new, mostly imported tree varieties and demonstration of improved materials,
its main function is the distribution of seedlings. The most important
seedlings currently produced are coconut, rambutan, pomelo and durian. The
farm is reasonably well equipped and its management and research staff is of
good quality.
Rural Credit
2.22    The Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) was established in 1976 to reac-
tivate provision of seasonal credit to farmers through Township Banks and
Village Banks. The current interest rate charged to farmers is 12% for
seasonal and long-term loans. At present, 29 crops are eligible for MAB
loans, the main ones being paddy and oilseeds. The former accounts for 82%
of the total volume of lending. Paddy owes its dominance to the termination
of the previously-used advance purchase system for this crop in 1978. MAB's
loan recovery rate is excellent.
2.23    At present, medium-and long-term agricultural credit is scarce,
although this situation is being reviewed under technical assistance provided
by UK. To date, MAB has not extended long-term credit for orchard develop-
ment, although there are no legal obstacles to such loans.
Transportation
2.24    In the Kinmundaung area, a main highway from Rangoon to Prome and
Taungdwingyi to Magwe runs along the western border of the project area. A
road from Taungwingyi to Pyinmana runs through the center of the project area
and would be upgraded under the project. These roads would provide the major
means of transportation for goods and produce related to the project. A
branch railroad line connects Kyaukpadaung with Pyinmana along the western
edge of the project area. In the Azin area, the main road from the port city
of Moulmein to Mudon, Tavoy and Mergui passes through the project. A rail-
road line runs from Rangoon to Ye, just across the Salween River from Moul-
mein. The Salween River also provides transportation for goods and produce
to the Andaman Sea and ports beyond.



-9-
Existing Water Supply and Sanitation in Mudon
2.25    Mudon does not have a public water supply system.  Most of the
population (estimated at 39,700 in 1980) draws water from private shallow
wells and ponds. The poorest depend on collecting rain water. All wells in
the area dry up during the dry season for at least two months each year.
During this period, water is hauled from the Kangyi lake, at the outskirts of
Mudon. Vendors transport water from the lake by trucks and bullock carts and
charge K 3 to K 6 per drum (48 Ig). Part of the population cannot afford
such prices and carry their own supplies from Kangyi lake. Those living in
the western and northern outskirts of the town are faced with carrying dis-
tances of several kilometers,
2.26    There are no municipal sanitation facilities in Mudon and only
slightly more than 50% of the residents have private facilities of any type.
The incidence rate of gastro-intestinal diseases in 1980 was about 25% of
local dispensary in-patients and 9% of out-patients. The overall rate in
Burma of these diseases, based on official hospital and health centre data,
is about one half the rate in Mudon (100 cases per 1,000 population vs 200
per 1,000). The incidence rates of water related skin-diseases and parasitic
diseases in Mudon are 7% and 2.5%, respectively, based on hospital records.
These rates clearly indicate that many of the shallow wells and other water
sources are contaminated. The Mudon Township Development Committee (TDC) is
aware of this situation and carries out a general chlorination of private
wells during epidemic periods. The school and dispensary wells are
chlorinated on a continuing basis. Drainage of storm water in Mudon is
through open street drains, which are regularly maintained by TDC.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01    The proposed project would be the first medium tank irrigation scheme
assisted by the Bank Group in Burma. The main objective of the project would
be to increase crop production and farm incomes in Kinmundaung and Azin
through construction of storage dams and new irrigation facilities. It would
also improve health standards of the Mudon population by providing a piped
municipal water-supply system. Water supplies developed by the project would
be sufficient to irrigate two crops in the Kinmundaung area and a dry-season
crop in the Azin area, as well as a full water supply for Mudon. Assistance
would also be provided to strengthen the implementation capabilities of ID,
AC and HD.
Principal Project Features
3.02    Works, facilities and programs to be implemented over a four-year
period would include:



-10-
Kinmundaung:
(a) construction of an earthfill dam about 80 ft (24 m) in height;
(b) rehabilitation of the existing diversion weir and canal bifurca-
tion headworks;
(c) rehabilitation and extension of two main canals and the construc-
tion of an irrigation distribution system for 5,000 ac;
(d) buildings and facilities for construction and operation and
maintenance (O&M) use;
(e) improved facilities and services for agricultural extension and
and training;
(f) facilities for a new research farm (50 ac); and
(g) equipment and vehicles for construction and O&M.
Az in:
(a) construction of an earthfill dam about 92 ft (28 m) in height;
(b) construction of main canals and an irrigation distribution
system for 2,850 ac;
(c) buildings and facilities for construction and O&M use;
(d) improved facilities and services for agricultural extension,
research and training;
(e) facilities for a State Orchard Farm (250 ac);
(f) equipment and vehicles for construction and O&M; and
(g) construction of a water supply system for the town of Mudon,
including water treatment, pumping and distribution facilities.
Strengthening of Implementing Agencies
(a) technical assistance;
(b) training; and
(c) equipment and vehicles.
Detailed Description of Project Features
3.03    Design data for the dams, reservoirs and irrigation systems to be
incorporated in each subproject are summarized in Annex 1, Table 3. Details
of all project works are shown in the following paragraphs.



-1 1-
3.04    Kinmundaung Dam and Reservoir.  A homogeneous earthfill dam would
be constructed on the Kinmundaung River at a site located in the foothills
of the Pegu Yoma mountains, about 15 mi southeast of Taungdwingyi. The dam
would have a maximum height of about 80 ft at crest elevation 630 ft MSL and
a crest length of about 1,120 ft. A 200-ft wide service spillway (crest
elev. 618) would be located in the left abutment, and a 300-ft wide emergency
spillway (crest elev. 625) would be provided in the right abutment, just
beyond a small (15 ft high - 185 ft long) earthfill saddle dike. The
spillways could safely pass a maximum probable flood (10,000 yr) of 24,000
cfs. The outlet works, located on bedrock through the dam near the left
abutment, would have a capacity of 110 cfs at the inactive reservoir storage
level (597 ft MSL) and a capacity of about 300 cfs at full reservoir capacity
(10,520 ac ft). The reservoir would store river inflows from a 28.5 sq mi
catchment area and yield an average of about 16,750 ac ft of water annually.
The maximum flood surcharge level would be about 627 ft MSL. Annual sediment
accumulation in the reservoir is estimated to be 65 ac ft.
3.05    Azin Dam and Reservoir.  The Azin Dam would be a homogeneous earth-
fill structure and would be located on the Azin River about 1.5 mi upstream
from the town of Mudon. It would have a maximum height of about 92 ft at
crest elevation 125.5 ft MSL and a crest length of about 1,350 ft. The 90-ft
wide service spillway (crest elev. 116.5) would be located in the right
abutment and would have a capacity of 3,550 cfs, which could safely pass a
maximum probable flood resulting from a repetitive 1,000-yr design cyclonic
storm. The outlet works would be founded on bedrock through the left central
section of the dam and have a design capacity of 50 cfs at minimum reservoir
level. Since it would convey both irrigation and municipal water, it would
have an elevated intake structure to reduce turbidity. The outlet works
would consist of reinforced concrete pressure pipe from the intake to the
center of the dam, where a steel pipeline would convey reservoir releases to
the downstream toe of the dam, bifurcating at that point to serve the town of
Mudon and the irrigation system. The reservoir would have an active storage
capacity of 14,100 ac ft to regulate the high runoff resulting from the the
intense rainfall within the small (2.3 sq mi) catchment area and an inactive
capacity of 500 ac ft, with an estimated annual yield of 13,235 ac ft.
Estimated 50-year sediment accumulation in the reservoir is 90 ac ft.
3.06    Kinmundaung Irrigation and Drainage System.  Irrigation releases from
the reservoir would be diverted to the Left and Right Main Canals at the
existing diversion weir located about four miles downstream from the dam.
The weir would be rehabilitated under the project as necessary to meet the
needs of the enlarged system. The irrigation distribution system would
consist of about 7 mi of main canals, 27 mi of distributary and minor canals,
and necessary water courses and field ditches for delivery of project water
to the 5,000-ac service area. The canals would be unlined. The Right Main
Canal would serve 2,250 ac and have a capacity of about 50 cfs, whereas the
Left Main Canal would serve 2,750 ac and have a capacity of about 60 cfs.
The design capacity of the distribution system would be based on a water duty
of about 55 ac per cfs. Natural drainage channels would be improved and
intermediate open drains would be provided as necessary to drain low-lying
areas and provide an outlet for storm runoff.



-12-
3.07    Azin Irrigation and Drainage System.  The irrigation distribution
system would consist of about 12.7 mi of Main Canals and 9.1 mi of dis-
tributary and minor canals. Water courses, field ditches (for paddy) and
pipelines (for orchards) would divert from the canals to serve the 2,800-ac
irrigation service area. The Main Canal (2.6 mi long) would divide into
Right and Left branches, extending an additional 4.8 mi and 5.3 mi, respec-
tively. The Main Canal would be concrete lined, as well as 2.0 mi of the
Right Main and 1.4 mi of the Left Main. The remaining portion of the Main
Canals and all distributaries would not require lining. The capacity of the
Main Canal would be 60 cfs. The Right Main Canal would serve 650 ac of
orchards and 750 ac of paddy and have a capacity of 30.5 cfs. The Left Main
Canal would serve 200 ac of orchards and 1,250 ac of paddy and have a
capacity of about 30 cfs. Design capacities of the Main Canals correspond
to requirements during the peak day of the peak month. The design capacity
of the irrigation system was based on an average water duty of about 50 ac
per cfs. Natural drainage channels would be improved and smaller inter-
mediate drains would be provided in the paddy areas to prevent the build up
of storm runoff and to provide drainage for harvesting.
3.08    Mudon Water-Supply System.  Geologic conditions preclude groundwater
development in the Mudon area. Below 100 ft, the most common material is
laterite with some limestone. The few drillings carried out in the past and
the geological character of the area suggest that there is little potential
for finding a deeper aquifer that could provide an adequate and protected
source of groundwater for a large-scale water supply system. In contrast,
storage provided by the project on the Azin River immediately upstream from
Mudon could provide a full water supply for Mudon, in addition to irrigation
requirements of 2,850 ac during the dry season. Water supply facilities
provided by the project would be designed to meet the projected demands of
year 2001. First stage facilities would be adequate to supply a peak daily
demand of 2.36 IMg. These facilities would consist of: (i) a 1,000-ft long
pipeline, with a capacity of 2,600 Igm (7 cfs) from the outlet of Azin Dam to
the filter plant; (ii) a filter plant with a slow-sand filter system and a
clear-water reservoir; (iii) a pumping plant with two 850 Igm pumping units,
chlorination facilities, and space for a third unit for increased supply;
(iv) a service and head regulating reservoir with first-phase capacity of
130,000 Ig; and (v) a water distribution network including about 13 mi of
pipelines, 30 fire hydrants, 140 public standposts and provisions for
household hookups. Distribution system pipe sizes would range from 3 to 12
inches in diameter. Living quarters would be provided for O&M staff as well
as a workshop and storage facilities. Annex 2, Table 4, provides details and
basic costs of the water supply component. The average investment cost per
capita, based on year 2,000 population, is US$62 equivalent in mid-1982
prices.
3.09    Water Courses and Field Ditches.  The water courses in the Kinmun-
daung service area would convey water from the canal system to each farm
block, averaging 25-50 ac. Individual farm units within each block would
average about 5 ac in size. The project would provide turnouts for each farm
unit, however water users would be responsible for constructing field ditches



-13-
from the water courses within the farm block. Some rough levelling would be
required (estimated at 10% of the area) and would be provided by the project.
3.10    The water courses in the Azin service area would convey water from
the canal system to irrigation blocks averaging 25-30 ac in the paddy area
and 25 ac in the orchard areas. Average farm sizes would be about 8 ac in
the paddy areas and 4 to 5 ac in the orchard areas. The orchards in the
upland areas would be developed primarily on new land. The project would
provide a low pressure piped-distribution system from the open canals in the
orchard areas, with risers and outlets for each farm.
3.11     For both subprojects, service roads would be provided along the main
and distributary canals to provide access to each service block. Existing
drainage channels would be improved where necessary and intermediate surface
drains would be provided in the paddy areas to remove excess surface water.
3.12      Construction Camp and O&M Headquarters.  A construction camp,
including office, laboratory, workshop and storage buildings and quarters for
staff would be constructed in the vicinity of each damsite. Service
facilities (electric and telephone lines, water supply and sanitary
facilities) also would be provided, as well as improvements to the dam access
roads. Upon completion of construction, the camps would be utilized as O&M
headquarters for each scheme.
3.13    Agricultural Extension.  Given the remarkable success of the Whole
Township Extension Program (para 1.04) in promoting known technology, steps
would be taken to strengthen the ongoing extension programs in both agricul-
tural areas in regard to cropping patterns, water management and agronomic
practices. The extension program would require provision of additional
staff, regularly scheduled farm visits, on-farm demonstrations and pest and
disease control (especially for cotton). Because of a lack of training
facilities for tree crops and water management in Burma, short-term
in-service training abroad would be provided for Subject Matter Specialists
(SMSs). Special attention would be given to the upland fruit orchards in the
Azin service area, where the diversity of tree crops and intercropping would
necessitate a higher density of extension staff. Extension staffing require-
ments are shown in Annex 6, Chart 3.
3.14    The project would operate research and demonstration plots at the
centrally located research farm at Kinmundaung and provide at least one
on-farm demonstration in each village tract as soon as irrigation water is
provided by the project. The demonstration plots would study water manage-
ment for furrow irrigation and associated agronomic practices, test the
performance of various cropping and water management systems and train exten-
sion staff in efficient on-farm development for irrigation and water manage-
ment. At Azin, several trials and demonstrations would be set up at the
experimental orchard farm at Kanglay during 1983. At least one demonstration
plot would be laid out for every 200 ac of orchards, involving different
fruit trees, intercropping and spacing.
3.15    Agricultural Research.   At Kinmundaung, the project would establish
a new training and research farm of about 50 ac. Research farm activities



-14-
would focus on agronomic requirements, management practices and irrigation
water utilization as applied to the cropping systems envisaged in the project
area. Special attention would be paid to cotton cultivation and water
management, particularly rotational irrigation cycles for the range of crops
to be grown. The research farm would be coordinated by the Agricultural
Research Division of AC. Equipment provided (Annex 2, Table 7) would include
tractors, sprayers, power tillers, and irrigation equipment. An
agro-climatological station would be set up to facilitate experimentation
on water management. Training equipment and transportation would be made
available to research and extension staff to facilitate their work.
3.16    The two existing research farms in the vicinity of the Azin sub-
project would be expanded and strengthened by providing tractors, equipment,
buildings and transport. A full agro-meteorological station would be estab-
lished at one of the research farms, while rain gauges would be installed at
the other. Training facilities for extension workers and farmers would be
provided at one of the research farms. Double cropping of paddy and irriga-
tion and rotational water management practices would receive primary atten-
tion at the Central Paddy Research Farm at Mudon. Management practices,
spacing arrangements and crop water requirements for different fruit crops
(of varying maturity), with and without intercrops, would be researched at
the Kangalay farm.
3.17    State Orchard Farm.  In view of the relative lack of experience of
participating farmers in orchard establishment, and based on the successful
operation of the nearby state owned rubber estate (Cr. 879-BA), GOB would
establish a 250-ac (net) State Orchard Farm in one block of State-owned land
in the upland area of the Azin service area. Unlike the existing Kangalay
Research Farm, the proposed farm would be operated on a commercial basis by
the Horticulture/Vegetables Section (HVS) of AC. The main orchard crops
would be pomelo, durian, and mango, with inter-cropping of pineapples,
bananas and vegetables during the maturing period of the orchards.
Administration and storage buildings, shops, staff quarters, and equipment
and vehicles would be provided under the project (Annex 2, Tables 3 and 7).
The remaining 600 ac (net) of the uplands are privately held and also would
be planted principally to orchards. The project would provide
piped-irrigated facilities to all orchard farms. It is expected that about
250 orchards held by about 370 families would be established. The State Farm
would provide storage facilities as a central depot for private holders.
Strengthening of Implementing Agencies
3.18    Consultancy Services.  During the last few years, operations of the
ID have expanded rapidly. Sanctioned staff positions increased from about
6,800 in 1973 to 19,500 in 1981 and the number of major projects under
implementation from 8 to 16. The budget has increased nearly seven-fold
during this period and the rapid expansion has created strains within the
organization. A major reorganization has been proposed including strengthen-
ing of the central division, particularly Planning and Design, which have not
expanded commensurately with the expansion of ID-s overall activities.
Strengthening of planning and design capability is a top priority and GOB has
agreed that consultancy services for this purpose be included in the proposed



-15-
project. A total of 76 man-months of consulting services would be provided
for (a) in-house advisory services in general planning and training, (b)
preparation of a second tank irrigation project, and (c) preparation of
detailed designs for one major sluice structure for the proposed Lower Burma
Paddyland Development Project, Phase III. Five man-months of consultancy
services would also be provided to HD and Mudon TDC for review of detailed
designs and tender documents for the Mudon water supply system and to assist
in establishing necessary accounting, billing and collection system.
3.19    It is envisaged that the consultants provided to ID would be from an
internationally reputable consulting firm and those assisting HD and Mudon
TDC would be recruited individually. Draft terms of reference for the con-
sultants are presented in Annex 3. Equipment to be provided (US$1.0 M) is
listed in Annex 2, Table 7. Total costs of consultancy services are
estimated at US$1.0 M. Average man-month cost would be about US$12,600
including billing rates, travel, per diem and other reimbursable expenses.
Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 2, Table 5.
3.20    Training.  The rapid expansion of ID (para. 3.18) has increased
training needs for ID staff, especially at the assistant engineer level. The
proposed consultancy services would provide on-the-job training to those
staff. In addition, a total of 84 man-months of overseas training would be
given to ID staff (especially Planning and Design Circle) in planning,
design, implementation and management of irrigation projects. A proposed
schedule for such overseas training is shown in Annex 1, Chart 7. In view of
the special importance of agricultural extension for the project, a total of
42 man-months of overseas training would also be provided for subject matter
specialists of AC in water management, oil seeds, cotton and horticulture.
The tentative training schedule for AC staff is shown in Annex 1, Chart 7.
The total cost of overseas training for ID and AC staff is estimated at
US$0.4 M. Training of Mudon TDC staff in operation and maintenance of the
water supply system would be organized by CC at the training center in Ran-
goon, where courses in plumbing, mechanical work, electrical work and super-
vision of civil works are being carried out. The CC will expand its course
program to include water meter and instrument maintenance and repair.
3.21    A Short-Term Specialist for Dam Review.  A Dam Specialist, as agreed
with IDA, would review plans during various stages of design, perform peri-
odic inspections during constructon, and provide advice to ID to ensure the
safety of the dams and allied structures. The specialist currently is under
contract to review the Kinda Dam in Burma and would be retained to make a
review of each dam on an annual basis. Costs to the project for these serv-
ices and in-country expenses total about US$20,000. An assurance was
received from GOB to this effect.
3.22    Maintenance and Inspection after Construction.  An assurance also
would be obtained from GOB that they would propose to IDA, no later than one
year before the expected completion of the dams and allied structures,
appropriate arrangements to continue periodic inspections of these structures
to ensure their safety and proper operation and maintenance.



-16-
3.23    Agricultural Credit.  The project would not provide additional funds
for credit. However, farmers' credit requirements in the Kinmundaung project
area would be increased to enable them to meet additional costs associated
with land development, greater use of inputs and purchase of new farm equip-
ment for furrow irrigation. The establishment of private orchard farms in
the Azin upland areas would require special long-term credit arrangements
to enable the farmers to survive the maturing periods of the orchards.
Although intercropping of the planted area may provide some early returns,
long-term institutional credit would be required to some degree. Total
credit requirements arising from the project are estimated to be K 1.3 M p.a.
for seasonal credits and K 2.9 M for long-term credits. COB has assured that
the Government would make arrangements to review agricultural credit require-
ments with the potential orchard farmers in the project area to arrive at
adequate terms and conditions of such credit. The review would include
principal amount required, interest rate, repayment and grace period, as well
as method of repayment. The credit arrangements would be completed in time
to allow orchard growers to receive required credit for the first planting
season under the project.
Status of Field Investigations, Surveys and Designs
3.24    Reservoir Storage and Irrigation Facilities.  Engineering surveys,
topographic mapping, geologic investigations, soils tests, land class-
ification, hydrologic and runoff studies, plan formulation, and design and
cost estimates were made by ID staff. Drilling explorations were continued
to mid 1982 to obtain information needed for final location and detailed
design of dam features and appurtenant structures. The foundation of each
dam was found to be stable, and with moderate grouting the foundations and
abutments should be water tight. Borrow areas were explored at both sites
and an adeauate quantity of suitable fill material was located in close
proximity to each dam.  The height of each dam was economically determined
and is near the optimal economic and technical limit.
3.25    Rainfall measurements have been made at Kinmundaung Weir since 1960,
and streamflow measurements have been made since 1958. Maximum probable
flood flows at the damsite for design purposes were estimated on a regional
frequency basis. For Azin, metereological data from the Mudon station (about
one mile from the dam site) was used for project studies. Daily water-level
observations have been made since 1979 at Azin damsite and these observa-
tions, correlated with recorded streamflows in the area, were used to
estimate runoff at the damsite.
3.26    Design of Mudon Water-Supply System.  Final Engineering Designs are
being carried out between April and October 1982, with the completion of
necessary field investigations and surveys scheduled prior to the onset of
the monsoon rains. This is being done by HD's in-house staff with the assis-
tance of engineers from the Construction Corporation (CC). Towards the end
of this period tender documents will be prepared for the supply of required
equipment and materials. The project provides for three man-months of con-
sulting services of a water supply engineering specialist to review all
detailed designs and tender documents and to advise HD's staff on completion
of drawings and documents. HD has also launched a program to collect and



-17-
analyze water samples from the Azin river on a regular basis. As a result of
this program, the quality of the raw water from the dam can be evaluated and
firm criteria for the design of the filter plant established.
Water Demand, Supply, and Quality (Irrigation & Urban Use)
3.27    Kinmundaung.  As there are no competing water demands, the full flow
of the Kinmundaung River would be available for irrigation in the Kinmundaung
service area. Currently, run-of-the river flows are used to irrigate a
limited portion of the area. Streamflow records or estimates at the damsite
are available from 1959 to the present and estimated runoff during the
1959-81 period averaged 22,770 ac ft. Project irrigation requirements would
be met from regulated releases to Kinmundaung river from the proposed reser-
voir, diverted from the river to the main canals (left and right) at the
existing weir about four miles downstream from the damsite. A simulated
reservoir operation study (Annex 1, Table 5) was made for the twelve-year
critical period to size the dam and reservoir and project service area. In
the derivation of reservoir diversion requirements, river inflows were
assumed to balance conveyance losses in the four-mile reach of the river from
the dam to the irrigation diversion weir and an overall irrigation efficiency
of about 50% (51% for paddy crops and 49% for upland crops) was used. Based
on the cropping pattern and cropping calendar assumed for the 5,000 ac serv-
ice area (Annex 1, Table 7 and Chart 1), the average yield of the reservoir
would be about 16,750 ac ft. The annual irrigation shortage would be mini-
mal, about 1% of average annual demand (a maximum of 9% in one year of the
twelve-year study period). Analyses of water samples from the river shows
the water to be of excellent quality for irrigation use.
3.28    Azin.  Irrigation water for the Azin service area and urban water
required by Mudon would be supplied from the regulated runoff of the Azin
River basin provided by the proposed Azin Reservoir. Although the catchment
area above the damsite is only 2.32 sq mi, the extremely heavy rainfall
during the five-month rainy season (averaging 188 in per year) results in an
average annual streamflow at the damsite of about 14,190 ac ft (or 13,500 ac
ft if 1960-70 period of unusually high runoff period is excluded). A simu-
lated reservoir operation study was made for the twelve-year (1968-79) criti-
cal runoff period (Annex 1, Table 5) using the proposed cropping pattern and
calendar shown in Annex 1, Table 7 and Chart 2. The study indicates that
an active reservoir storage capacity of 14,100 ac ft would yield an aveage
annual useable water supply of 13,235 ac ft, which could supply projected
demand with only minimal shortage (less than 1%).
3.29    In the derivation of the Azin reservoir diversion requirements, water
supply estimates for Mudon were based on an average per capita water use of
20 Iged for standpipe users and 40 Igcd for house connections, resulting in a
year 1998 total requirement of 1880 ac-ft (14% of the total reservoir yield).
In this respect, assurance was received from GOB that an average daily
allocation of 1.4 IMgd and a maximum flow of 1,700 Igm would be made avail-
able from Azin Reservoir for Mudon. Irrigation requirements were based on
overall irrigation efficiencies of 59% for the orchard areas (utilizing
concrete-lined canals and piped distribution systems) and 51% for the paddy
areas. In addition to supplying the full water supply needs of Mudon to year



-18-
1998, the project would provide the full irrigation requirements of the
ochards (850 ac) and the paddy crop (2,000 ac) during the dry season, as well
as a supplemental irrigation supply for paddy nursery and pre-irrigation
during the wet season. The additional water supply requirements of Mudon
beyond year 1998 levels of use would be supplied from the reservoir by
exchanging some localized unused inflow from adjacent areas for irrigation
use. Although only one water quality sample has been taken from the Azin
stream, analyses showed it to be suitable for irrigation without treatment.
Additional samples will be taken and tested to design the sedimentation and
treatment facilities to be provided for the Mudon water supply under the
project.
Equipment and Vehicles for Construction
3.30    The project is envisaged as the first of a series of medium tank
irrigation projects and would provide a significant amount of heavy construc-
tion equipment and vehicles to be used initially on Kinmundaung and Azin and
subsequently on other tank irrigation projects in Magwe Division and Mon
State. Other equipment component, therefore, is tailored to these needs.
Cost Estimates
3.31    The project is estimated to cost US$27.1 M, including import duties
and taxes of US$1.32 M, reserved procurement of US$1.0 M and US$3.57 M for
price escalation. Foreign exchange costs would be about US$13.1 M, or 48% of
total costs. Costs were based on prices prevailing in December 1981 and were
updated to July 1982 price levels. Administration and engineering costs are
based on proposed organizational arrangements and operational expenses, and
would amount to about 12% of construction costs. Physical contingencies were
estimated at 15% of civil works costs. Price contingencies were estimated on
the basis of annual inflation rates of 8% in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7%
in 1985, and 6% in 1986. Since about 50% of project costs would be for the
purchase of equipment and vehicles in the first year of the project, price
contingencies would be only about 15% of base costs, including physical
contingencies. Cost estimates are detailed in Annex 2, Table I through 8.
and are summarized below:



-19-
Summary Cost Estimate /a
Item                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   F.E
------ Kyats M -----           --- US$ M -------    %
Kinmundaung
Civil Works               19.4    2.6       22.0    2.70    0.36    3.06   12
Equipment & Vehicles       6.7   26.4       33.1    0.93    3.67    4.60   80
Subtotal                26.1   29.0       55.1    3.63    4.03    7.66   53
Azin
Civil Works:
Dam, Irrigation &
Agric. Support        17.8    2.3       20.1    2.47    0.32    2.79   11
Mudon Water Supply    11.9    3.7         15.6    1.66    0.51    2.17   24
Equipment & Vehicles       8.9   31.0       39.9    1.23    4.31    5.54   78
Subtotal                38.6   37.0       75.6    5.36    5.14   10.50   49
Strengthening Imple-
menting Agencies
Technical Assistance
& Training               0.7    9.5       10.2    0.10    1.32    1.42   93
Equipment & Vehicles       2.5    5.4        7.9    0.35    0.75    1.10   68
Subtotal                 3.2   14.9       18.1    0.45    2.07    2.52   82
Engineering &
Administration           10.4      -       10.4    1.44       -       1.44    0
Physical Contingencies    8.9    1.3         10.2    1.24    0.17    1.41   12
Project Base Costs        87.2   82.2    169.4   12.12   11.41   23.53   48
Price Contingencies        13.4   12.3       25.7    1.86    1.71    3.57   48
Total Project Costs    100.6   94.5    195.1    13.98   13.12   27.10   48
/a  Includes duties and taxes amounting to US$1.32 M, and reserved
procurement of US$1.0 M.  The total costs net of duties, taxes and
reserved procurement amount to US$24.78 M.
Financing
3.32    The proposed IDA Credit of US$19 M would finance about 77% of total
project costs, including the full foreign exchange cost of US$13.1 M and
about 51% (US$5.9 M equivalent) of local costs, net of duties, taxes and
reserved procurement. GOB would finance about US$8.1 M equivalent including
US$1.0 M for reserved procurement. Since the Mudon Water supply facilities



-20-
would be constructed by CC under agreement with ID utilizing project funds,
there would be no on-lending arrangement between GOB and the Mudon TDC.
Implementation
3.33    The project is expected to be completed in four years (Annex 1,
Charts 3-5). The remaining months in 1982 would be spent mainly in final
design, and procurement of equipment and vehicles. Final designs of dams and
appurtenant structures and irrigation facilities are expected to be completed
by December 1982. Organizing and training staff, constructing camps and
access roads, and clearing and preparing dam sites would be undertaken in
early 1983. Construction of the dams and irrigation facilities is expected
to start after the end of the rainy season in 1983. Dam fill would be placed
in three working seasons. During the third dry season, river flows would be
diverted through the outlet works while the final fill section is placed.
3.34    Construction of the canals and distribution systems is expected to
start in late 1983 and be completed by June 1986. Since no project water
would be available until the dams are completed and water is stored, irriga-
tion water deliveries would not start until November 1986. Agricultural
Extension and Research staff would be established and trained early in the
program and extension facilities developed during the 1983-85 period. The
estimated annual schedule of expenditures is shown in Annex 2, Table 8.
3.35    Work on the Mudon water supply component is scheduled to start in
April 1983 with the tendering of equipment and materials. Actual construc-
tion is scheduled to begin in November 1983 and is expected to be completed
in June 1986 (Annex 1, Chart 5). During the period the reservoir is being
filled (1986 monsoon), the treatment, pumping and distribution facilities
would be tested prior to commencement of operations of the whole system. The
Mudon TDC water supply operational staff (about 10 persons) will be required
about three months prior to water diversions so that they can be trained in
O&M procedures.
Procurement
3.36    Materials, Equipment and Vehicles.  Materials, equipment and
vehicles, estimated to cost US$9.7 M including price escalation but net of
taxes, duties and reserved procurement, would be financed by IDA and would be
procured through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. However, individual
items, costing less than US$30,000 and for which international tendering
would not be practical, would be procured after comparing prices from not
less than three independent suppliers in accordance with GOB procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases, however, would be limited to
an aggregate amount of US$400,000. A 15% preference margin, or the prevail-
ing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufac-
turers in bid evaluation under ICB procurement. Bidding documents for all
procurements estimated to cost $100,000 or more and all proposed awards
related thereto would be submitted to IDA for prior review. An estimated
equipment procurement schedule is presented in Annex 1, Chart 6 and detailed
equipment lists are included as Annex 2, Table 7.



-21-
3.37    Civil Works.   The dams and appurtenant structures, irrigation and
drainage systems, construction camps and facilities, and land clearing
(US$6.4 M) are unlikely to attract foreign contractors because of their
relatively small size and diverse locations and would be carried out by ID,
since no private construction industry exists in Burma. The ID has capacity
and proven experience to carry out such works and has already designated
construction forces for this purpose. Costs of construction are less that
what would be expected under ICB. Construction of the Mudon water supply
facilities (US$2.53 M) and the State Farm facilities in Azin (US$0.3 M) would
be carried out by CC, which has sufficient capacity and experience in its
specialized di'½sion for water supply and sanitation works, as well as
general building and other construction works.
Disbursements
3.38    Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made for:
(a) 50% of expenditures for civil works, including the dams,
irrigation and drainage systems, clearing, roads, cons-
truction camps, and Mudon water supply facilities;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equip-
ment, vehicles and spare parts;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manu-
factured equipment;
(d) 75% of locally procured equipment; and
(e) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and overseas
training of staff.
Disbursements for item (a) would be made against statements of expenditure,
documentation for which would be retained by the implementing agencies for
review by IDA upon request and audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. The ID would be responsible for preparation, review and
submission of all applications for disbursement to IDA on irrigation works
and on Mudon Town Water Supply works. The proposed allocation of the IDA
Credit is shown in Annex 2, Table 9. The estimated credit disbursement
schedule is shown as Annex 2, Table 10. It is expected that disbursements
would be completed by mid 1988. Experience on past IDA-financed irrigation
projects in Burma shows relatively quick disbursement profile. Disbursements
are estimated to lag expenditure projections by about one year.
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
3.39    All GOB agencies maintain accounts according to procedures and forms
established by the MPF. The Central Audit and Inspection Office, acting on
behalf of the Council of People's Inspectors, is responsible for auditing
GOB agency accounts and is acceptable to IDA as an independent auditor for



-22-
this project. The audit of accounts for the Mudon Water Supply component
would be carried out by the Township Audit Office. Assurances were obtained
from GOB that:
(a) Separate accounts for each project component would be main-
tained by respective implementing agencies and collated by the
Project Implementation Committee (PIC) (para 4.09);
(b) these accounts would be audited annually in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied by the Director
General, Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of the
Council of the People's Inspectors of GOB; and
(c) PIC would send to IDA copies of the summary of the unaudited
annual project accounts within four months after the end of the
fiscal year, followed by certified copies of the audited
accounts and auditor's report within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementation Responsibility
4.01    The following Ministries and agencies would be responsible for
implementing the various components of the project, however the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests (MAF) would have overall responsibility for project
implementation.
Agency                                    Ministry
(a) Irrigation Department (ID)               Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
(b) Agricultural Corporation (AC)                               -do-
(c) Agricultural Mechanization
Department (AMD)                                            -do-
(d) Mudon Township Development               Ministry of Home and Religious
Committee (MTDC)                         Affairs (General Affairs Dept.)
(e) Housing Department (HD)                        Ministry of Construction
(f) Construction Corporation (CC)                               -do-
In addition, the Planning and Statistics Department of MAF and the General
Affairs Department (GAD) of the Ministry of Home and Religious Affairs, as
well as the Ministry of Planning and Finance, would be directly involved with



-23-
implementing agencies in project coordination and management, while the
Agricultural and Farm Products Corporation (AFPTC), and Myama Agricultural
Bank (MAB) would be indirectly involved with project implementation.
4.02    The Irrigation Department (ID) would have overall responsibility for
project implementation and would be specifically responsible for:
(a) construction of the dams and allied structures, including intake and
outlet structures for the Mudon water supply; (b) construction/rehabilitation
of the Main Canals and irrigation distribution systems; (c) construction of
access roads, O&M buildings and camp sites; and (d) procurement of equipment
and material for construction and O&M. A new Division would be established
in the ID to assume responsibility for project construction management. A
Project Director (Superintending Engineer), would be appointed, stationed in
Rangoon, to head this Division, who would oversee the activities of the
Project Managers stationed at Kinmundaung and Azin (Annex 6, Chart 1).
4.03    The Kinmundaung and Azin project offices would each be headed by a
Project Manager (Executive Engineer) and staffed with a Geologic Investiga-
tions Unit for explorations and foundation treatment, a Field Construction
Unit for project layout and force account construction, a Mechanical Unit for
equipment operation and maintenance, and an Engineering Design Unit. The
last would be responsible for designs, laboratory analyses, construction
quality control, and quantity and cost computations. Each unit would be
headed by an Assistant Executive Engineer.
4.04    A moderate increase in ID staff would be necessary to implement the
proposed project successfully within the scheduled time period. Staff
assigned to the project would total about 680, including the Superintending
Engineer, three Executive Engineers, eight Assistant Executive Engineers, and
16 Assistant Engineers. Most of these positions would be filled by transfers
or promotions within ID from other projects completed or nearing completion.
The appointment of the Project Director and the Project Managers for Kinun-
daung and Azin by the ID are conditions of credit effectiveness.
4.05    The Agricultural Corporation (AC) would be responsible for
(a) strengthening extension services in the project sub-areas,
(b) establishing a new research-cum-training farm in the Kinmundaung area
and strengthening the two existing farms near Mudon, (c) establishing a State
Orchard Farm in Azin, and (d) monitoring and evaluating the agricultural
aspects of the project. The AC would provide research support, intensify
extension activities, conduct training of area farmers at research/training
farms, and supply seeds, fertilizers and other inputs to project farmers.
The AC's extension organization in both Taungdwingyi and Mudon Townships are
headed by Township Extension Managers. For the proposed project, however, AC
would appoint a Project Extension Manager (PEM) for each subproject, who
would report directly to the Division/State Extension Manager. The extension
organization to be provided would be as shown in Annex 6, Chart 3.
4.06    Monitoring and evaluation of agricultural aspects would be carried
out by the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit under the Foreign Projects
Division in the AC Head Office in Rangoon, or other appropriate unit (paras
4.13-4.15).



-24-
4.07    The Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD) would be principally
responsible for land clearing and levelling in the project command areas
(about 10% of the Kinmundaung proiect area and part of the 850-ac orchard
area in Azin).
4.08    The Construction Corporation (CC) would be responsible for construct-
ing both the Mudon water supply facilities and the Agricultural Research Farm
at Azin under agreement with ID. The Huusing Department (HD) would plan,
layout and design the water supply facilities. These organizations have
specialized divisions for planning, design and construction of town water
supply facilities and no extra staff would be required. In early 1986 the
Mudon TDC would appoint ten staff during the final construction stages for
training in O&M of the new facilities. The General Affairs Department (GAD)
would be kept informed and consulted on the Mudotn water supply component at
all times during its construction. The project organization for this com-
ponent is shown in Annex 6, Chart 4e
Project Management and Coordination
4.09    To coordinate work of the various implementing agencies, a Project
Implementation Committee (PIC) would be formed in MAF similar to the PICs for
the Lower Burma Paddy Land Development Projects I and II and Kinda Dam Multi-
purpose Project. The PIC, chaired by the Deputy Minister of MAF, would be
composed of the heads of the implementing and related supporting agencies
(Annex 6, Chart 1). The Project Director would serve as member-secretary of
FIC. The PIC would be responsible for: (a) administering, reviewing and
approving annual work programs and budgets; (b) reviewing quarterly progress
reports; (c) establishing inter-ministerial project-related policies and
solving inter-ministerial problems; and (d) conferring with IDA on all
project-related policy matters.
Operation and Maintenance
4.10    O&M of Dams and Irrigation Facilities.  After completion of construc-
tion, responsibility for operation and maintenance of the dams and irrigation
facilities would be transferred to separate maintenance divisions of ID. A
review of the completed works would be made before transfer to ensure that
the facilities are properly completed and are operational. The O&M Unit for
Kinmundaung would be formed under the Magwe District Headquarters section of
the ID's Meiktila Maintenance Division. The Azin O&M Unit would be under the
Moulmein District Headquarters of the Rangoon Maintenance Division. Each
Unit would be headed by an Assistant Engineer. Details of the O&M organiza-
tions to be established are showrn in Annex 6, Chart 2. Equipment and
vehicles required by the various O&M units would be provided by the project.
4.11    The O&M Units would operate and maintain the dams and irrigation
facilities down through the distributary canals. Water courses and field
ditches would be operated and maintained by the water users under the direc-
tion of the Assistant Canal Inspector. Water would generally be available
full time in the distributary canals, and deliveries would be rotated in the
water courses and field ditches. The Canal Inspector would check the crops



-25-
grown, time of planting and harvesting, and irrigation practices. These
activities would be coordinated with the project Agricultural Extension
Service. O&M of project facilities is estimated to cost Kyats 36-43 per ac
annually (Annex 2, Table 6).
4.12    O&M of the Mudon Water Supply.  After completion of all project
works, the Mudon TDC would take over responsibility for O&M during the
test-run period. This transfer would be coordinated by PIC. The project
would provide two field vehicles for maintenance crews, as well as necessary
equipment and handtools. During the test-run period, the maintenance crews
would begin installation of house connections, so that about 1,700 house
connections would be in place when full-scale operations begin in November
1986. In 1986 and early 1987, during the last construction years, a finan-
cial consultant, provided under the project, would train the finance staff of
the Mudon TDC in appropriate public utility accounting, billing and collec-
tion and help TDC to install the necessary accounting system.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13    Monitoring and evaluation efforts would be directed to determining
project implementation problems and progress and to assessing the agricul-
tural and socio-economic impacts of the project. The monitoring program
would evaluate (i) overall project implementation; (ii) establishment and
functioning of the applied research-cum-demonstration farms and the State
Orchard Farm; (iii) water management activities and effectiveness; (iv)
agricultural extension progress and effectiveness; (v) agricultural and
socio-economic impact of the project; and (vi) project implementation aspects
applicable to planning and implementation of future tank schemes.
4.14    Agricultural surveys would be required to provide a consistent data
base for monitoring agricultural development. An assurance was obtained from
GOB that the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) of AC or other
suitable unit would conduct benchmark surveys at two years intervals begin-
ning January 1984 and ending January 1992, covering inter alia, cropped
areas, yields, use of farm inputs, and project related changes in area,
employment opportunities and in farm and family incomes. An assurance was
also received that AC would submit its monitoring proposal to IDA by June 30,
1983.
4.15    For Kinmundaung, investigations would be conducted to determine
system water-use efficiencies and the reliability and equitability of water
deliveries. In Azin, the suitability of alternative irrigation systems for
orchard crops would be investigated. Although studies would be initiated
after the project construction is completed, they would be of considerable
value to the success of future schemes. During the initial years of orchard
establishment in the Azin project area, regular surveys would be conducted to
determine the adequacy of credit and seedling and other input supply. Once
fruit orchards mature (6-9 years after project completion), transport and
marketing aspects would be continuously monitored by AC.



-26-
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Development With the Project
5.01    The proposed Kinmundaung subproject would provide supplemental
irrigation for wet season crops in the full service area and full irrigation
of a limited area during dry season. Special efforts would be made to better
utilize available rainfall. The cropping intensity is expected to increase
from about 85% to about 150% in the project area within a few years of com-
pletion of project facilities. While paddy would be the most important crop,
cotton, groundnut, sunflower and sesame also would be cultivated. For the
financial and economic analyses, the crop mix shown in Annex 1, Table 7 has
been used with the associated crop calendar in Annex 1, Chart 1.
5.02    In Kinmundaung, the area under paddy during the wet season would
change from about 2,500 ac of primarily local paddy at present to 500 ac of
local paddy and 2,500 ac of HYV paddy. In the higher lying lands (about
2,000 ac), the current crops (sesame, maize and beans) are expected to be
replaced by LS cotton, sesame, and sunflower. Depending upon water
availability, groundnut also would be grown during the dry season. Actual
achievement of this cropping pattern would be dependent upon successful
implementation of the water management and extension programs. More reliable
and expanded water supplies, introduction of HYVs, greater use of inputs, and
improved cultural practices are expected to result in significantly higher
yields. Local paddy variety yields are expected to double (0.4 to 0.8
tons/ac) and HYV paddy to treble (0.6 to 1.7 tons/ac).
5.03    In Azin (Annex 1, Table 7 and Chart 2), the existing paddy area is
ideally suited for a second paddy crop, and the future cropping intensity
with the project is expected to reach about 200%. In addition, the upland
areas would be planted to fruit trees and intercropped with bananas, pineap-
ples, and vegetables until the main orchard crops mature. In the monsoon
season, paddy yields are expected to increase as a result of improved
drainage, more effective extension, and intensified use of inputs. The
average yield of local paddy varieties is expected to increase from 0.8 to
1.0 tons/ac and HYV paddy yields from 0.9 to 1.5 tons/ac. Dry season HYV
paddy would average about 1.8 tons/ac. Expected yields of fruit trees and
other crops in the upland area are based on results obtained in similar areas
under high levels of management, input availability and dependable irrigation
(Annex 1, Table 7).
Agricultural Development Without the Project
5.04    Without the project, cropped areas and cropping patterns are expected
to remain broadly constant in both subproject areas. Although in Kinmundaung
some yield increases could result from continued progress of the Whole Town-
ship Extension Program, such increases might well be off-set by further
deterioration of the run-of-the-river irrigation system, resulting in more
unreliable water supplies and discouraging use of higher levels of inputs.
Thus, only marginal yield increases have been assumed without the project
for local paddy and other rainfed crops such as sesame, maize, beans, and



-27-
sunflower, whereas HYV paddy yields under irrigation have been estimated to
rise by about 15%. For Azin, no development of the upland area is expected
without the project, whereas paddy yields in the river delta have been
estimated to increase slightly, primarily due to progressive adoption of
improved practices and higher use of fertilizer. However, inadequate
drainage in much of the low lying areas mitigates against significant
increases beyond these levels without the project.
Overall Agricultural Impact
5.05    Annex 1, Table 7 summarizes expected overall agricultural impact of
both schemes under the project. At full development cropping intensities
would almost double for both subprojects. Incremental paddy production would
total about 8,100 tons p.a. and the value of cash crops is expected to total
about K 8.8 M per year on average especially through introduction of LS
cotton in Kinmundaung and new orchard establishment in Azin.
Marketing and Pricing of Project Output
5.06    Paddy.  Projected incremental paddy production is estimated at 3,900
and 4,200 tons at full development for the Kinmundaung and Azin areas,
respectively. Part of this production would be marketed through AFPTC.
Since 1975, AFPTC has procured about one third of national paddy production.
Incremental paddy production from the two subproject areas would enhance rice
exports marginally. Moreover, the quantity of rice currently shipped by GOB
from Lower Burma to alleviate deficits in the Kinmundaung area would be
decreased, thereby releasing rice from GOB stocks for export. Currently,
official movement of rice within the country totals 1.8 M tons, of which
roughly 63% represents internal consumption supplies.
5.07    After meeting government procurement quotas, farmers are permitted
to sell any remaining surplus, at open market prices. Depending on quality,
market prices are about 50-100% higher than GOB-controlled prices, the
largest difference being in rice-deficit regions. Nevertheless, market
prices are still only about 35-50% of international market prices after
adjustment for domestic transport, handling, and processing costs.
5.08    In the Kinmundaung area, paddy is milled in Taundwingyi Township at
the AFPTC-owned rice mill or at private establishments. Their combined
capacity is about 40 tons per day, but at present they operate for only a few
months annually. In the Azin area, milling is done almost exclusively by
private millers; their capacity is considered adequate for anticipated addi-
tional output. GOB-procured paddy is milled at the rate of K 26 per ton of
milled rice. The rate charged by private millers is about 50% higher.
5.09    Seed Cotton.  Officially, TexCorp procures 100% of all medium-staple
cotton production (estimated to be 18,000 tons in 1980/81) and processes it
to supply lint to its textile mills. Farmers purchase seed and other
material inputs from AC, financing these and other cultivation costs by
advance purchase payments from TexCorp. TexCorp is also responsible for
cotton ginning, by-product processing, baling, lint marketing, and yarn and
textile manufacture. By-product cottonseed is either allocated for AC seed



-28-
sales or is processed for oil and seedcake. Cake is exported through AFPTC,
while cottonseed oil is distributed internally as cooking oil and for soap
manufacture. Incremental cotton products from the Kinmundaung subproject
(estimatd at 750 tons p.a. at full development) would be processed at the
ginning, baling and oil extraction factory at Aung Lan, about 60 mi away.
This factory currently operates below capacity for lack of raw materials.
5.10    Incremental cotton production would augment TexCorp's total procure-
ment of LS cotton by about 4%, thus reducing imports by an equivalent quan-
tity. Currently, cotton imports (yarn, thread and fibre) account for about
7% of total value of non-capital imports. Between 1974-76, the procurement
price of LS seedcotton was increased twice. At K 4,278 per ton, the current
TexCorp price is double the 1974 price; nevertheless, it is still about 20%
below the corresponding farm-gate price based on international levels. Small
quantities of cotton are reportedly being traded in the private sector at
twice the government price, however GOB considers this acceptable to provide
incentives to growers.
5.11    Other Annual Crops.  Under guidance by the Ministry of Cooperatives,
township cooperatives are heavily involved in the procurement of cottonseed,
groundnuts, sesame and sunflower for vegetable oil. From 20 to 50% of these
oilseeds, depending on the crop, are procured, milled and retailed by
cooperatives. Almost equal amounts are procured, processed and marketed by
private entrepreneurs. The remainder is kept for home consumption and milled
by private millers. Open market prices are 30 to 50% higher than those
offered by cooperatives. Although at full development oilseed production
would increase almost seventeen fold over the present production level,
demand is high and the public and private processing and marketing facilities
are expected to expand accordingly. Production of groundnut and other oil-
seeds is currently encouraged to reduce the economy's dependence on foreign
supplies of vegetable oils. Between 1976-79, average annual import of these
was valued at about US$1OOM. At present, the domestic oilseed market is free
from government control, and production is not subject to Government procure-
ment. Maize, beans and pulses are produced in the country mostly for domes-
tic consumption, but a small amount is also exported through AFPTC. The
government procures about 17% of maize production and 13% of beans and
pulses. After procurement, any remaining marketable surplus is traded
privately. For most pulses, procurement prices are about 45% of free market
levels.
5.12    Orchard Crops (Azin).  Mudon Township currently produces about 1,350
tons of fruit, all of which is marketed privately, mostly in fresh form.
Fruits reach consumers mainly through two channels: (a) from the farmers
themselves, who harvest, grade, store, transport and retail their products;
and (b) through traders who purchase the fruit from the farmers and then
grade and market the products. As a result of the project, incremental
production of orchard crops would reach about 7,450 tons by year 2000 and
intercrops (bananas and pineapples) about 3,300 tons by 1991. The bulk of
the incremental production is expected to be marketed privately. The private
growers would be given access to storage and transport facilities provided
for the State Orchard Farm. The private farmers who obtain credit from MAB
would be expected to sell their products at the State Farm, at which point



-29-
MAB would recover loans. Incremental production can be absorbed fully by
nearby urban centers (Mudon, Moulmein, and Rangoon). The Azin orchard scheme
could stimulate export promotion in potential markets like Singapore, Hong
Kong, and Japan. The success of this scheme depends mainly on efficient
marketing channels. GOB is planning to conduct a marketing and storage study
for fruits and vegetables to determine future local and export needs for
these facilities.
Farm Income
5.13    Non-orchard Farms.  Farm budgets have been estimated for five-ac
non-orchard farms in the Kinmundaung and Azin subproject areas. The
estimated farm budgets in Table 5.01 show a summary of present conditions and
projected development with and without project. Details of the farm budget
estimates are provided in Annex 4, Tables 2a and 2b. Corresponding cropping
patterns and physical inputs and output quantities are shown in Annex 1,
Tables 7 and 8. These quantities have been valued at estimated 1990 finan-
cial prices in 1982 constant kyats as specified in Annex 4, Table 1.
Table 5.01
Present and Projected Net Farm Family Incomes
(Non-Orchard Farms)
Project
Future     Future    Related
Present   Without      With      Increase
Farm Type          (Acres)             P          W           W       ((W-W)/W)
--------     Kyats '000s----------------
Kinmundaung
Annual Crops        5               1.3        1.4         8.1         486%
Azin
Annual Crops        5               3.7        3.9         7.1          81%
5.14    As a result of the Kinmundaung subproject, average net family income
at full development (year 15) is projected to be narly five times the level
expected without the project. This dramatic difference is accounted for by
increases in cropping intensity and productivity, as well as changes in
cropping pattern. In particular, with an assured water supply, farmers would
be able to plant substantial proportions of their land to high value crops
such as cotton and oilseeds. Indeed, on the average farm, total revenue from
cotton and groundnut cultivation would account for about 50% of projected
cash inflow from crop production.
5.15    Assuming with-project yields and input requirements, net benefit to
HYV paddy cultivation would be about K 710/ac, assuming roughly one-third of



-30-
production would be procured at the government price. 1/ Net benefits from
oilseed cultivation is about K 900/ac (sesame and groundnut).  For cotton,
the corresponding long-term figure is K 2,070/ac. These calculations indi-
cate that pecuniary incentives implied by existing price conditions are
sufficient to induce a high level of farmer participation in the new cropping
pattern proposed in the subproject. 2/ At full development (1990), the Azin
(paddy area) subproject would increase net income by about 80% over without
project levels. This increase is largely attributable to a two-fold increase
in cropping intensity made possible with irrigation. Although income from
off-season work would diminish, the reduction would be more than compensated
by increased income from agricultural production. As in Kinmundaung, part of
the paddy production is procured at GOB-controlled prices, implying a net
benefit 3/ to HYV dry season paddy cultivation of about K 760/ac. Although
this return is comparable with the corresponding amount for Kinmundaung, net
farm family income at full development is lower in Azin because crop options
are limited to paddy only, whereas farmers in the Kinmundaung area can plant
higher-value crops such as cotton and oilseeds.
5.16    Orchard Farms.  A Farm budget was estimated for a four ac-farm for
the privately-held Azin orchard farms (Annex 4, Table 2c). The assumed
cropping pattern, production requirements and yields are shown in Annex 1,
Tables 7 and 8. Due to the long maturing periods of main crops, the average
orchard-farm family would have a negative net farm income before financing
during the first year of establishment even with the cultivation of inter-
crops. A significant amount of long-term credit would be necessary to reduce
the initial burden of the farmers. However, once past the initial critical
period of about seven years, family income would dramatically increase and,
at full development (about 20 years after settlement), average net family
incomes would be well over ten times the estimated current level of incomes
of participating private farmers.
5.17    The Horticulture/Vegetables Section (HVS) of AC, which would be
responsible for the operation of the State Orchard Farm, is operated as a
government department. As such, all revenues are paid over to GOB and both
capital and operating expenses are met from GOB budgetary allocations.
Annex 2, Table 2d, shows incremental costs of establishing the State Farm,
and the financial cash flow of HVS. The cash flow shows a net outflow for
HVS of about K 4.8 M during Year 3 to 5. From Year 6 onward, however, the
project would result in an annual net inflow to HVS increasing from K 0.1 M
in Year 6 and reaching K 4.2 M by Year 20.
1/ In computing farm incomes, compulsory paddy quotas were valued at the
GOB-controlled price and the balance of paddy production was valued at the
local free market price. Net benefit is before excluding cost of labor.
2/ Assuming labor requirements given in Annex 1, Table 8, the implicit wage
to family labor is as follows: HYV paddy K 14.2/md; sesame K 27.3/md;
groundnut K 19.1/md; and cotton K 40.5/md.
3/ Before excluding cost of labor.



-31-
Agricultural Cost Recovery
5.18    Unlike many other countries in Asia, Burma presents a unique case in
irrigation cost recovery. By setting unusually low procurement prices, GOB
recovers not only the full cost of O&M but also a bulk of capital costs.
Cost recovery was analyzed from two perspectives. In Case I, nominal GOB
official supply and procurement prices increase by the projected inflation
rate, 6% p.a. (1983-1995), so that these prices are maintained in real terms.
In Case II, nominal prices are kept constant to reflect GOB's traditional
aversion to price adjustments. This policy implies that real prices
deteriorate at 6% p.a. Cost recovery under Cases I and II for both sub-
projects are summarized in Annex 4, Table 3.
5.19    Costs to GOB have been estimated in terms of present values (PV) 1/
over the 30-year project life of: (a) total capital costs (excluding price
contingencies, taxes, and duties), (b) recurrent O&M equipment replacement
expenses, and (c) subsidies on incremental fertilizer inputs based on dif-
ferences between international prices and GOB-controlled prices.
5.20    Recoveries by GOB have been estimated in terms of PVs of GOB compul-
sory procurement of paddy and cotton and land taxation. The compulsory paddy
procurement system imposes an implicit tax on paddy growers that increases
progressively with farm size and yields, and provides a significant cost
recovery source. This amount has been estimated as the difference between
the projected export price of rice and GOB's procurement price plus process-
ing, storage and transport costs. GOB's compulsory purchase of incremental
seed cotton production in the Kinmundaung subproject area provides a similar
cost recovery mechanism. This was calculated as the difference between GOB's
purchase price and the weighted average of projected border prices of cotton-
seed oil, lint (import substitutes), and cottonseed cake (export),
appropriately adjusted for processing, storage and transport costs.
5.21    Depending on land quality and the availability of irrigation/drainage
infrastructure, farmers in project areas currently pay land taxes of
K 0.50/ac for poor quality dryland, K 3.50/ac for irrigated paddyland,
K 6.0/ac for fertile flood banks planted to onions, and K 12.0/ac for some
garden lands. Anticipating standard tax reassessment by the Settlement and
Land Record Department (SLRD), incremental tax revenues in project areas
would be generated through increases in land taxes, conservatively estimated
to average about K 2/ac p.a. in nominal terms beginning in Year 10. In
addition to land taxes, a new Water and Irrigation Tax Law was enacted by
the Pyithu Hluttaw (Peoples' Assembly) in March 1982. Under this law, any
cultivated land supplied with water by irrigation works built and maintained
by the State will be subject to an annual tax of K 10 per ac.
1/ A discount rate of 8% p.a. was assumed to be the financial opportunity
cost of capital to GOB. Capital costs are net of residual value of con-
struction equipment, and include physical contingency costs.



-32-
5.22    Cost recovery rates corresponding to Cases I and II are 47% and 71%
for Kinmundaung and 37% and 44% for Azin, respectively. In actuality, these
rates would likely fall betwen Cases I and II. Although any price adjust-
ments would increase GOB's initial outlay, this may be offset by increased
procurement if production proves sufficiently price-elastic. Additional cost
recovery revenues could be generated through future increase of water charges
but the present system of paddy and cotton procurement already imposes a
substantial tax on farmers, and further levies could lower overall recovery
rates by reducing farmers- production incentives.
5.23    Rent recovery rates at full development are over 100% for Kindmaun-
daung and 200% for Azin paddy land, mainly through the indirect agricultural
taxation by official procurement.  Rent recovery for the Azin orchard is nil
because there would be no official procurement of orchard produce and the
currently envisaged land and water taxes cover only a fraction of the project
rent.  The small rent recovery for orchard, however, is justified since it
would give an incentive to private farmers to enter into new ventures with
high risks.
Financial Aspects of Mudon Water Supply
5.24    General.  Since Mudon does not have a public water supply at present,
there is no specific basis on which to build a financial analysis based on
historic data.  In order to get an appreciation of the results of the first
six years of project operation (1986/87-1991/92), the normal recurrent cost
of a water supply project of this magnitude has been extrapolated using the
expected price escalation for the future years to arrive at current annual
price levels (Annex 5, Table 3).
5.25    Revenues from Sales of Water. Proposed tariff levels have been deter-
mined considering: (a) affordability based on annual family income; and (b)
maximum possible cost recovery and minimizing of subsidy needs. The affor-
dability has been estimated as a percentage of family income. No recent
information is available on income representing the absolute poverty level in
Burma. However, there is every indication that the abosolute poverty point
is not higher than an annual family income of K 2,400. With a minimum
reported family income level of K 2,500 per year (at 1982 price level) a
"life line" tariff does not have to be taken into account in Mudon.
5.26    It has been assumed that families with annual income ranging from
K 2,500 (lowest reported family income at 1982 price levels) to K 4,000
(overall median family income) would use water supplied predominantly through
standposts. The cost for this water consumption should not exceed 2% of the
lowest family income at 1988 price levels (K 3,350 per year - K 2,500 plus
5% p.a. for escalation), assuring the lowest possible tariff for the compara-
tively poorest segment of the Mudon population. The resulting tariff would
be K 0.59 (US cents 8.2) per m3.
5.27    House connections would be provided for those families with incomes
ranging from K 4,000 (overall median family income) to about K 30,000 p.a.
(at 1982 price level). For those families with income higher than K 4,000,



-33-
the annual outlay for water would amount to about 4% of the group-s average
income. The resulting tariff would be K 1.86 (US cents 26) per m3.
5.28    On average, the revenues from sales of water (current prices) are
expected to increase from K 1.17 (US cents 16) per m3 in FY1987/88 to K 1.30
in FY1991/92 (US cents 13). The increase is mainly due to an increasing
proportion of house connections. Based on 1982 constant price levels, those
revenues would be K 0.92 (US cents 12.8) per m3. These are similar to
prevailing tariffs in South Asia. Furthermore, family income in Mudon is
higher than in most developing countries and it is therefore likely that the
population would be willing to pay for water at the indicated price level.
5.29    Capital and Recurrent Costs of Water Supply.  The assumptions under-
lying the cost calculation as well as the results are shown in detail in
Annex 5. For the purpose of financial analyses, allocation of the joint
costs of the Azin dam and appurtenent structures to the irrigation and water
supply sectors has been made on the basis of water allocation (14% for the
water supply component) (para 6.08). Agreement was reached with GOB that
the financial allocation of the capital cost of the Azin Dam to the Mudon
water supply component would be determined by GOB and IDA upon project com-
pletion.
5.30    Financial Outlook.  Under the assumptions described above, revenues
are expected to cover annual costs plus depreciation throughout the projected
period. Rates of return of up to 1.6% on non-revalued net fixed assets in
operation are likely to be achieved. In order to achieve and maintain a
reasonable financial position of the water supply activities in Mudon, agree-
ments have been reached with GOB to permit the Mudon TDC to set tariffs at
levels to cover the cost of operation, maintenance, administration and
depreciation of the Mudon water supply facilities,as well as depreciation of
the allocated portion of the Azin dam capital cost.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Overall Impact
6.01    Agriculture.  The project would enable more intensive agricultural
development through construction of two medium tank irrigation schemes in
areas where agriculture is currently dependent upon scarce or unevenly dis-
tributed rainfall and run-of-the river diversions. The project would ensure
farmers a more stable irrigation supply, resulting in increased crop produc-
tion and higher and more regular farm family incomes and employment. It would
assist GOB-s efforts toward crop diversification, improve Burma's balance of
payments, and reduce the regional imbalance in development activities.
6.02    Mudon Water Supply.   Mudon lacks an adequate and safe drinking water
supply, which limits its further growth and economic development. Health
conditions can be expected to worsen as the population increases. The
proposed Azin Dam would provide a technically feasible, economically viable,



-34-
and long term solution for development of a public water supply through
provision of 1.4 IMgd of safe drinking water.
Employment Effects
6.03      The Kinmundaung subproject would increase annual farm labor
requirements from about 120,000 mandays at present to about 400,000 mandays
p.a. at full development (Year 15). Currently, family labor on most farms
exceeds on-farm requirements because of low cropping intensities, and
off-farm employment opportunities are limited. The project would alleviate
these conditions by significantly increasing cropping intensities on most
farms. Annual employment on paddy farms in the Azin subproject area would
increase from 61,000 mandays currently to about 179,000 mandays at full
development (Year 7), mainly in the dry season during which little farming
activity goes on at present. Farmers' dependence on off-season work in
nearby urban centers would be substantially reduced. Additional employment
of about 158,000 mandays annually would be created during the first six years
of orchard establishment; thereafter, annual labor requirements would be
around 86,000 mandays. In all cases, employment in processing, distribution
and transport sectors would also be increased. This anticipated growth in
labor requirements would be sufficiently met in all cases by seasonal migra-
tion from surrounding townships and through the projected increase in the
labor force in the project areas by full development.
Household Income Effects from Irrigation
6.04    Current per capita incomes in the Kinmundaung area are low (less than
K 300), principally due to the absence of an assured irrigation water supply.
Subsistance agricultural conditions are likely to persist in the absence of
the project, since little change is anticipated in the Kinmundaung economy
without it. With the project, about 40% of the population would be expected
to attain income levels above the current national average (US$180 per
capita). Cotton growers would benefit relatively more than paddy growers
in comparable farm size categories.
6.05    Current per capita incomes of paddy farmers in the Azin area (about
K 730) are higher than levels prevailing in the Kinmundaung command area.
The project is expected to result in significant increases in farm family
incomes in this area. At full development, per capita incomes of about 70%
of the project area population would exceed the national average. The cur-
rent incomes of the participating orchard farmers are similar to those of the
paddy farmers. However once past the critical period of orchard estab-
lishment (about 7 years), even the smaller farms (2 ac) would surpass the
national per capita income average and later attain considerably higher
incomes.
Direct Foreign Exchange Effects
6.06    The direct foreign exchange impact of the project has been assessed
by comparing the gross foreign exchange value of incremental production of
tradables with incremental recurrent foreign exchange costs for traded



-35-
agricultural inputs and those for replacement of O&M equipment incurred.  The
following table summarizes foreign exchange effects at full development:
Kinmundaung      Azin
---------US$-----
Increased Production of Tradables            1.50 M        0.90 M
Incremental Foreign Exchange Costs           0.15 M        0.15 M
Net Effects                         1.35 M        0.75 M
Environmental Effects
6.07    The project is not expected to result in adverse environmental
effects. Although malaria is one of the few water-related diseases found in
Burma, the project is not expected to aggravate existing conditions. In
addition to an intensified extension program which would stress increased
plant protection measures, training in the safe application of insecticides
and herbicides would be given. On the positive side, the project would
result in reduced flooding and improved drainage of lands within the command
area and provide a safe and secure water supply for Mudon, resulting in
environmental and public health enhancement in these areas. Sanitation would
be improved in Mudon under GOB's environmental health program. The project
would also provide a firm water supply to two existing fish hatcheries in the
lowland command area of the Azin subproject to facilitate their operation.
In addition, both reservoirs constructed under the project would have sig-
nificant fish production potential.
Benefits to the Economy and Economic Analyses
6.08    The Burmese economy would realize an overall economic rate of return
(ERR) from total project investments, inclusive of physical contingencies, of
about 13%. The following summarizes ERRs and NPWs from each project com-
ponent and from the total project:
ERR     NPW /a (K M)    NPW /a (US$)
Kinmundaung                    13.6         16.6             2.31
Azin                           12.3         17.6             2.44
Project Total                  12.8         34.2             4.75
/a   Discounted at opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 10%.
The economic cash flows for the subprojects are summarized in Annex 4,
Table 4. For the Azin multi-purpose subproject, NPWs were also estimated
for single-purpose options. The results show that through implementation of
the multi-purpose project, significantly lower economic costs would be
incurred to achieve anticipated output levels than were separate irrigation
and water supply projects undertaken.



-36-
6.09    The following assumptions have been used for the economic analyses:
(a) Project Life and Phasing.   The project life has been assumed
to be 30 years including a four year construction period.
Project benefits would start in Year 5 (1987). Agricultural
benefits would reach full development in Year 15 for Kinmundaung,
Year 7 for the Azin paddy area, and Year 21 for the Azin orchard
area.
(b) Prices. For internationally traded goods, prices were based
on the IBRD-projected world market prices expressed in mid-
1982 currency values. 1/ Appropriate adjustments were made
for freight, handling, processing, and quality differences.
Local costs and locally valued benefits were expressed in
border kyats through application of appropriate conversion
factors, principally a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80.
Year-specific prices were used for inputs and outputs over
the 1983-1995 period, after which real prices were assumed
to remain unchanged. Shadow wage rates of farm labor during
slack and peak periods were estimated to approximate respective
financial wages. However, during the intermediate period,
shadow wage rates were estimated at 70% of financial wages
in Kinmundaung and 80% in Azin. Economic wages were derived
by adjusting weighted shadow wage rates in these periods
with SCF of 0.8 (Annex 4, Table 1).
(c) Benefits. Incremental crop benefits were based on most prob-
able yields attainable with project investments with assumed
build-up rates (paras 5.01-5.04). Town water benefits were
based on the estimated value of the consumers' willingness to
pay for safe drinking water. The estimates were based on
weighted averages of the proposed tariff (for ten months
a year) and the price of domestic water that Mudon residents
are currently purchasing from private suppliers during the
dryest period (for two months a year at K 4.0 per drum of
48 Ig or K 18.0 per m3).
(d) Capital Costs. For calculating economic capital costs, taxes
and duties were excluded and were expressed on border bases.
The project provides a significant amount of construction
equipment for this project, which can be used to develop
subsequent tank irrigation schemes. Residual values were
determined for this equipment. For the capital costs of the
Azin subproject, the cost allocation between the irrigation
and Mudon water supply components was based on the water
1/ Projections by the Commodity and Export Projections Division, IBRD in
June 1982. These projected prices of agricultural commodities are sig-
nificantly lower than those available at the time of appraisal.



-37-
supply allocation (86% for agriculture and 14% for the Mudon
water supply).
(e) Crop Production Costs. Per ac input requirements assumed are
summarized in Annex 1, Table 8. Adjustments were made in crop
production cost streams to reflect realistically the staggered
incurrence of costs and bebefits in agricultural activities.
(f) Other Project Effects. The following minor or non-quantifiable
effects have been omitted from the economic analysis:
(i) incremental employment generated from commodity
processing, handling, transport, and marketing.
(ii) improved sanitation, reduced health care costs
and improved labor productivity.
(iii) relieving manpower input (mainly by women) for productive
functions such as family-based industrial activities due
to saved labor for carrying domestic water.
(iv) demonstration effects to farmers outside the project
areas; and
(v) remaining extractable timber and residual wood usable
for fuel.
Project Risks and Sensitivity Tests
6.10    The Kinmundaung subproject would introduce furrow irrigation in areas
planted to upland crops. This type of irrigation is not currently practiced
in the area. Furthermore, in some years, LS cotton, which is new to the
area, has experienced heavy losses due to bollworm. To mitigate this
problem, the project would, inter alia, (a) establish a research-cum-training
farm and demonstration plots to provide essential extension and research
services to the farmers; (b) provide sprayers and chemicals for pest control;
and (c) limit cotton cultivation to only one season and encourage proper
post-harvest field sanitation. These efforts, together with further
experience to be gained from Agricultural Research Institute in Yezin and the
IDA-financed Kinda Dam Multipurpose Project, are expected to reduce project
risk considerably.
6.11    The agricultural component of the Azin subproject would be economi-
cally viable even if limited to paddy/paddy rotation (estimated ERR 13.8%).
However reflecting GOB's desire for crop diversification, the subproject
inclues 850 ac of orchard in the upland areas, which would enhance subproject
viability. Irrigated orchard schemes, however, have a higher degree of risk
than production based on annual crops because of the relatively long develop-
ment period, commodity perishability, and current inexperience of participat-
ing private farmers. The project would minimize such risks by
(a) strengthening the existing research-cum-training farm for orchard crops;
(b) establishing demonstration plots; and (c) providing higher density of



-38-
extension staff (para 3.13). Assurances were also received from GOB that
necessary long-term credit would be provided to the participating orchard
growers (para 3.23).
6.12    Sensitivity Tests.  Switching values (SV) 1/ were calculated to
assess the impact of variations in costs and benefit streams on the project.
The results are shown in Annex 4, Table 5. The SVs indicate that the
economic viability of the project is more sensitive to changes in agricul-
tural benefits (particularly paddy and cotton prices and yields) than con-
struction costs. Sensitivity tests were also performed to examine possible
effects of risks discussed in paras 6.10 and 6.11 and other factors such as
further drop in economic prices of paddy and cotton. The results of these
tests are summarized below. As shown, the project would maintain its
economic viability even if more conservative assumptions were adopted.
ERR
Change   Kinmundaung   Azin
(a) Base Case                                        13.6      12.3
(b) Economic Price of Paddy           -20%           12.6      11.6
(c) Cotton Yields with Project        +20%           14.4      -
(d) -do-                              -20%           12.6      -
(e) Benefits of Orchard               +20%           -         13.0
(f) -do-                              -20%           -         11.6
(g) Delay in Civil Works              1 year         12.2      10.6
(h) (b) and (d)                                      11.6      -
(i) (b) and (f)                                      -         10.8
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    Assurances were obtained from GOB that:
(a)  arrangements would be made to provide adequate agricultural
credit to project area farmers (paras 3.23 and 6.11). In
particular, GOB would make arrangements to review agricul-
tural credit requirements with the potential orchard farmers
in the project area to arrive at adequate terms and conditions
of such credit. These arrangements would be completed in
time to allow orchard growers to receive credit for the first
planting season under the project (para 3.23);
1/ Switching Value is the percentage change in the specified stream (benefit
or cost) that reduces the NPV of the project to zero at a specified
discount rate (10% is assumed for Burma, but SVs were also calculated
at OCC of 8% and 12%).



-39-
(b) consultarts would be appointed to assist the various imple-
menting agencies, including short-term specialist for dam
review (paras 3.18 and 3.21);
(c) a proposal would be submitted to IDA, no later than one year
before the expected completion of the dams and allied struc-
tures, for appropriate arrangements to continue periodic
inspections of these structures (para 3.22);
(d)  with regard to accounts and audits,
(i)  separate accounts for each project component would be
maintained by the respective implementing agencies and
collated by the Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
(para 3.39);
(ii) these accounts would be audited annually in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied by
the Director General, Central Accounts Office, acting on
behalf of the Council of the People½s Inspectors of GOB
(para 3.39); and
(iii)  The PlC would send to IDA copies of the summary of the
unaudited annual project accounts within four months after
the end of the fiscal year, followed by certified copies
of the audited accotnts and auditor-s report within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year (para 3.39);
(e) The project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of AC or other
suitable unit would conduct: agricultural and socio-economic
benchmark surveys at two-year intervals beginning January
1984 and ending January 1992, and AC would submit its
monitoring proposals to IDA by June 30, 1983 (para 4.14);
(f)  The average daily water allocation of 1.4 IMgd and a maximum
flow of 1,700 Igm would be made available from Azin Reservoir
for Mudon (para 3.29); and
(g)  The Mudon TDC would set tariffs at levels to cover the cost of
operation, maintenance and administration of the Mudon water
supply facilities as well as depreciation for these facilities.
7.02    A condition for credit effectiveness would be the appointment of the
Project Director and two Project Managers (para 4.04).
7.03    With the above assurances and condition of effectiveness, the project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$19.0 M on standard IDA terms. The
borrower would be the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.



BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Climatological Data
Kinmundaung Area                      Jan.     Feb.    Mar.      Apr.    May        June    July    Aug.       Sep.     Oct.     Nov.    Dec.    Total
(Lat.19 55N.,
Long.95 45 E)
Mean Monthly Rainfall
in Inches                           0.04      -        -       0.12    4.38    6.61    6.44    7.51    6.71    4.38            1.09    0.14    37.87
Mean Month Temp.- F
Maximum                           85.4    91.3    99.6   100.6    93.6    93.6    91.5    90.9    91.4    90.4    88.1    84.3                  92.6
Minimum                           57.1    61.3    70.2    72.2    79.2    78.0    77.5    77.2    76.8    74.4    68.6    60.7                  71.5
Relative Humidity - %                  6.0    47.0    40.0    45.0         58.0    74.0    77.0    77.0    77.0    76.0    69.0    67.0              64.0
Wind Speed - km/day                  108.78  115.4   123.7   149.3   165.5   171.9   167.5   170.6   146.5   111.0   114.2   122.4                     -
Solar Radiation in Equiv.
Evap. - mm/day                      11.2      1.7    14.4      15.6    16.3       16.4     16.3     15.9     14.8     13.3     11.6     10.7         -
Mean Monthly Pan Evap.-Inches          5.1      6.1       9.2     10.1      9.4      6.4      6.2      6.2      6.1      5.4       4.7      4.8      79.7
Water Use, ETo, by Ref. Crop -
mm/mo.                             132.4   155.4   222.3   224.2   226.1    164.1   154.4   149.7   141.2   132.3   124.8   117.8   1965.3
Azin Area
(Lat.16 17.5 N,
Long.97 40 E)
Mean Monthly Rainfall
in Inches                           0.13    0.28    0.41    2.47   20.14   37.17   43.54   43.38   27.31    8.93               1.32    0.31   185.37
Mean Monthly Temp. - F
Maximum                           90.0    93.0    95.0    90.0    84.0    82.0    82.0    82.0    85.0    89.0    90.0    90.0                  89.0
Minimum                           65.0    67.0    71.1    76.0    75.0    74.0    74.0    74.0    74.0    74.0    71.0    69.0                  72.0
Relative Humidity - %                 62.0    63.0    65.0    67.0    81.0    91.0    93.0    94.0    90.0    81.0                70.0    66.0       77.0
Wind Speed - km/day                  145.5   134.3   153.2   162.5   167.4   184.3   174.1    162.9   104.1   131.7   174.9   177.6                    -
Solar Radiation in Equiv.
Evap. - mm/day                      12.0   13.3       14.7      15.6     16.0     15.9     15.9     15.7     15.0     13.9     12.4      11.6        -
Mean Monthly Pan Evap.-Inches           5.6    6.4        7.6      8.2      5.9      3.8      3.5      3.2      4.2       5.3      5.6      6.2      65.7
Water Use, ETo, By Ref. Crop-                                                                                                                                      X
mm/mo.                             164.0  167.7    204.3   213.6   168.0   114.9   103.2   107.6   120.6   155.9   157.5   162.4   1839.8



-41-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Population and Farm Size Distribution
(1981)
Azin
Kinmundaung           Subproject Area 2/
Subproject        Paddy-   Other            National
Area 1/          land      Land    All   (1979/80) 3/
No. of Families                  1100.0               -        -     450.0
Population                       5400.0                        -    2200.0
Size Distribution by
Farm Families
Farm Size Interval (Acres)
0      -    1.99               17.4              15.2    81.0    60.6)
2.0     -    4.99               42.9              16.6     4.6      8.3)   61.4
5.0     -    9.99               37.1              29.4     6.5    13.6    24.1
10.0     -   19.99                2.4              34.3      6.4    15.0    11.8
20.0     -   49.99                2.0               4.2      1.2     2.2      2.6
50 and above                      0.0               0.2      0.3     0.3      0.1
Total (%)                 100.0            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Size Distribution by Area
Farm Size Interval (Acres)
0      -    1.99                5.9               2.2    19.3      9.1    24.8
2.0     -    4.99               34.0               6.8     7.5      7.1    30.7
5.0     -    9.99               51.4              24.6    17.9    21.9    29.5
10.0     -   19.99                7.6              53.8    31.1    44.7    29.5
20.0     -   49.99                 1.1             10.8    11.6    11.1    12.7
50 and above                      0.0               1.8    12.6      6.1      2.2
Total (%)                 100.0            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Average Farm Size (Acres)            5.0              8.8      2.6      4.9     5.4
1/  Source:  The Kinmundaung Dam Project.  Agro-Economic Data.
Irrigation Department, Nov. 1981.
2/  Source:  Report on Soil Classification and Land Classification of the
Azin Project. Irrigation Project, June 1981.
3/  Source:  Report to the Pyithu Hluttaw on Financial, Economic and Social
Conditions, 1981/82..



-42-                                     ANNEX 1
BURMA                                     Table 3
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary of Dam, Reservoir and Irrigation System Data
Sub-project
Dam and Reservoir Data                                  Kinmundaung            Azin
Dam
Dam Type                                          Earthfill              Earthfill
Crest elevation (ft. MSL)                            630                    126
Crest length (ft)                                  1,120                  1,350
Dam height (maximum) (ft)                             80                     92
Volume (1000 cu yd)                                  387                    617
Reservoir
Total Capacity (ac ft)                            10,520                 14,500
Active Capacity (ac ft)                            8,870                 14,150
Active capacity after 25 yr sediment
accumulation (ac ft)                             8,000                 14,100
Max. W.S. elevation (MP design flood - ft MSL)   627.2                       121.7
Inactive W.S. elevation (ft - MSL)                   597                     70
Catchment area (sq mi)                                28.5                     2.32
Reservoir area @ max W.S. elev (ac)                  460                    475
Service Spillway
Crest elevation (ft - MSL)                           618                    116.5
Width (ft)                                           200                     90
Length (ft)                                          450                    400
Design Storm (Yr)                                  1,000                  1,000 *
Discharge Capacity (cfs)                          14,000                  3,550
Stilling basin length (ft)                            75                     60
Emergency Spillway
Location                                         Rt. Abut.                  None
Width (ft)                                           300
Crest elevation (ft)                                 625
Design flood capacity (Yr frequency)              10,000
Outlet Works
Use                                                  Irrig.             Irrig. & Town W.S.
Capacity (at min. reservoir level) cfs               110                     50
Irrigation System Data
Main canals:
Length (mi,)                                          7                     13
Capacity (cfs)                                   49 &  60                30 to 60
Concrete Lining (mi.)                               None                     6
Structures
Cross - Regulators                                  2                      8
Checks and Drops                                    6                      9
Turnouts                                           12                     16
Distributary and Minor Canals:
Length (mi.)                                        27                      9
Capacity (cfs)                                  4 to 40                  1 to 10
Concrete Lining                                    None                   None
Structures
Cross regulators                                     3                      5
Checks and Drops                                    80                      5
Turnouts                                            49                     10
Farm Delivery Facilities
Area served by open ditches (ac)                  5,000                  2,000
Farm size per turnout (ac)                           5                      8
Area served by pipe conduit (ac)                   None                    850
Farm size per turnout (ac)                                                  5
* Cyclonic storm - design based on repetitive (3) storms @ 2 hr interval.



-43-                                             ANNEX I
Table 4
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements
Azin Subproject - Orchards
Item                   May  June  July  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  Total                  Remarks
Eto-Mod. Penuman - mm           168   115   103   108   121    156   157   163   164    168   204   214    -
Crop Factor - kc                0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7              -
Consumptive Use - mm            118    80    72    75    85   109   110   114   115   117   143   150    -                U
Use basin around
Field Losses - Deep Perc.                                                                                                 trees. 70-75% eff.
and Surface Waste-mm          41    28    25    27    29    38    39    40    40    41    50    52    -                 plus deep perc.
= net 65%
Field Water Require.-mm         159   108    97   102   114   147   149   154   155   158   193   202    -                       -
Effective Rainfall - mm         247   607   792   688   430   137    16           8      4      2      6    40    -       70% of 75% proba-
bility.
Irrigation Water
Require. - mm                 -      -      -      -      -      10   133   146   151   156   187   162    -
Close under lined
Gross Irrigation Require.-mm -         -      -      -      -      11   147   161   167   173   206   179  1042    main canals.  90%
Gross Effic. 58%.
Require. in Acre-Feet            -     -      -      -      -   0.04  0.48  0.53  0.54  0.56  0.68  0.58  3.41            Acre-Feet/Acre
3.41 x 850 Ac. - 2898 ac ft
Azn Subproject - Dry Season Transplanted HYV Rice
Oct.  Nov.  Nov.  Dec.          Nov.        Dec.           Jan.          Feb.        Mar.       Total         Remarks
Eto - Mod.?enman -mm                    156   157    -       -      78    79    81    82    82    82    84    84   100   104    -
Crop Factor - kc                        1.1   1.1    -       -    1.1   1.1  1.05  1.05  1.05  1.05  1.05  1.05    1.0   0.9             -
Consumptive Use - mm                    171   173   230   230    86    87         84    86    86    86    88    88   100    94    -
Perc. & Field Losses - mm                51    52    75    75    26    26    25    26    25    26    26    27    30    28    -                  80% eff. plus deep
x                                                                                                                                               perc.-net 70%
Field Water Requirement - mm           223   225   305   305   112   113   109   112   111   112   114   115   130   122    -
Effective Rainfall - mm                 100    11    10       5      6      5      3      2      2      1      1     1      2      3    -       80% of 75% Prob.
Irrigation Requirement - mm             123   214   293   300   106   108   106   110   109   111   113   114   128   119    -
Gross Diver. Requirement - mm           147   257   352   360   128   129   128   132   132   133   136   137   160   137    -                  80% conv. effec. -
Gross eff. 56%
Adj. for Area & Time - mm              3.6  12.7   176    90    -          64    63   132   132   133   136   137   160    63  1302
Requirement in Acre-Feet               0.01  0.94  0.58  0.29  ---0.21---  ---0.64---  ---0.87---  ---0.89---  ---0.73--- 4.27                  Acre-Feet/Ac.
4.27 X 2000 Ac.
= 8540 A.F.
Kinmundaung Subproject -             (Ac Ft)1/
May   June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.  March   Apr.  Total
Paddy I - Second Crop
1500 ac                         -       -       -    1005    930   1140   1530          -       -       -       -       -    4605
Paddy II - Single Crop
500  ac                         -       30    530    320    295    370          -        -       -       -       -       -    1545
Paddy III - First Crop
1000 ac                         -       -      730    640    610    740         -       -       -       -       -       -    2720
Cotton - Single Crop
1500 ac                         -       -       -       -      195    945   1275        -       -        -       -       -    2415
Sunflower - First Crop
500  ac                          -      120     90    285    295        -        -       -       -       -       -       -      790
Sesamum - First Crop
1500 ac                        450    240    900        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -    1590
Sub-totals                   450    390   2250   2250   2325   3195   2805                C(Variable- SeeBeow)             13665
Groundnuts:  Second Crop                  250 Ac.                                                  95    232    370        82    930
(Depending Upon Water Supply)          500 Ac.                                                  190    464    740       164   1860
750 Ac.                                                 285    696   1110    246   2790
1000 Ac.                                                 380    928   1480    328   3116
1250 Ac.                                                 475   1160   1850    410   4650
1500 Ac.                                                 570   1392   2220       492   5580
1/ Details of water requirement computations are available in Project File, Vol. I.



BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Simulated Reservoir Operation
Kindmundaung - Summary Reservoir Operation for Average Cycle
Active Capacity - 8000 Ac., Dead Storage - 2520 Ac. Ft.
(Units: Acre Feet)
Net    Irrig.  Res.      Res. Spills  Yr.       Net   Irrig.   Res.  Res.  Spills   Yr.          Net   Irrig. Res.        Res. Spills
Inflow  Demand  Str        EMC  Short  & Mo. Inflow  Demand  Strge  EMC   Short   & Mo. Inflow  Demand Strge.  EMC  Short
e,       _37                             TT)                       --Fj-  z;--:T
+)(- 6/()-) -i- ()-)                                      -  -T6 (+)-)  7T  -@7                           6+  IT
1961                                                  1964                                            1967
May             241    450   -209   1731    -           -       276    450   -174    453    -           -       -       450  - 450    680    -79
June            597     390   -207    1818    -         -      2803    390   2413   2726    -           -       494    390       104    684    -
July            521   2250  -1729    -          -26    -       7609   2250   5359   7915    -           -      1974   2250  - 276    318    -
August        4369   2250   2119    1989    -           -      6216   2250   3966   8000  +3711         -      4502   2250   2252   2440    -
September     1095   2325  -1230        639    -        -      9593   2325   7268   8000  +7098    -           4885   2325   2560   4850    -
October      11124   3195   7929   8000   +398    -            7213   3195   4018   8000  +3848    -           2569   3195  - 626   4080    -
November       1862   2805  - 943   6887    -           -      1358   2805  -1447   6383    -           -       127   2805  -2678   1286    -
December        -       -       0      6717     1/      -       -       -       0      6213 1/ -        -       -       -       0      1171 5/ -
January         -       570    570   5977               -       -       570    570   5483       -       -       -        -       -      1056    -
February        -      1392   1392   4440    -          -       -      1392   1392   3951    -          -       -       -       -        941    -
March           -      2220   2220   2090    -          -       -      2220   2220   1611    -          -       -        -       -       826    -
April           -       492    492   1478    -          -       -       492    492   1004    -          -       -  -   -         -       716    -
1962                                                1965                                             1968
May             333    450  -117   1246    -            -       -       450  -450    454    -           -        483    450       33    639    -
June             74    390  -316    815    -            -       173    390  -217        157    -        -      3285    390   2895   3394    -
July          3371   2250   1121    1811    -           -      2284   2250       34    111    -         -      5275   2250    305   6249
August        12725   2250  10475   8000  +4116    -           5773   2250   3523   3494    -           -      5512   2250   3262   8000  +1341
September     9602   2325   7277   8000  +7107          -      7239   2325   4914   8000  + 238    -           2367   2325        42   7872    -
October        6953   31995  3758   8000  +3588    -           6876   3195   3681   8000  +3511         -      2811   3195  - 384   7318    -
November       1956   2805  - 849   6981    -           -      1858   2805  - 947   6883    -           -       288   2805  -2517   4651         -
December        -       -       0      6811    1/       -       -       -       0      6713 1/ -        -       -        -       0      4511 3/ -
January         -       570    570   6071    -          -       -       570    570   5973    -          -       -        285    285   4086    -
February        -      1392   1392   4539    -          -       -      1392   1392   4436    -          -       -        696    296   3250    -
March           -      2220   2220   2189    -          -       -      2220   2220   2086    -          -       -       1110   1110   2010    -
April           -       492    492   1577    -          -       -       492    492   1474    -          -       -        246    246   1634    -
1963                                                 1966                                            1969
May             -       450  - 450   1012    -          -       235    450  -215   1144    -            -        355     450  -  95   1419    -
June            262     390  - 128    769    -          -       457    390       67   1096    -         -       1457     390   1067   2356       -
July           2387   2250      137    791    -         -      3031   2250    781   1751        -       -      3218   2250    968   3184    -
August         4641   2250   2391   3042    -           -      8306   2250   6056   7637    -           -      2682   2250    432   3476    -
September    4764   2325   2439   5326    -             -      2817   2325    492   7959    -           -       844   2325  -1481    1865    -
October        6402   3195   3207   8000  + 363    -           3104   3195  -  91   7698    -           -      2389   3195  - 806    890    -
November       1066   2805  -1739   6091    1/          -       283   2805  -2522   5026    -           -        401   2805  -2704    0    -1614
December        -       -       0      5921    -        -       -       -       0      4876 2/ -        -       -        -       -    (- 60)5/ -
January         -       570    570   5201    -          -       -       380  - 380   4356    -          -       -        -       -     (-100)   -
February        -      1392   1392   3669    -          -       -       928  -928   3288    -           -        -       -       -    (-140)    -                 a - 
March           -      2220   2220   1329    -          _       _      1480  -1480   1678    -          -        _       _       -    (-180)   -                 a  A
April           -       492    492    727    -  _   -           328  - 328   1230   1230    -           -        -       -       -    (-210)   -                    -
I/  Include 1500 Ac of groundnuts.          4/  Restrict groundnuts to 500 Ac.
2/  Restrict groundnuts to 1000 Ac.         5/  No groundnuts.
3/  Restrict groundnuts to 750 Ac.          T/  End of month content (EMC)
including evaporation losses.
Note: Ave. annual project water yield through reservoir regulation
would be 16756 ac ft.



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Azin Reservoir - 14,100 A.F. Active Capacity - Summary Operation Study
(Units - Ac. Ft)
Year        Net       Total    Net          Res   Spill (+)        Year         Net       Total    Net          Res   Spill (+)        Year         Net       Total    Net          Res   Spill (+)
& Month     inflow   Demand   Storage   FMC   Short  (-)            & Month    Inflow   Demand   Storage   EMG   Short  (-             & Month      Inflow   Demand   Storage   EMC  _Sort (-)
1968                 -         (+) (       2)    -                 1972                  1/        C+m  C-)    2/                      1976                           (+) C-)
May             179       160       19       1655       -          May             337       160       177     1810        -           May            750         160      590      590        -
June           2340       154   2186         3841       -          June          2365        154      2211     4021        -           June          3333         154    3179      3769        -
July           4051       160   3891         7732       -          July           5914       160      5754    9775         -           July          3674         160    3514      7283        -
August         3808       160   3648        11380       -          August        4547        160      4387   14100         +62         August        2819         160    2659      9942        -
September    2450         167   2283        13663       -          September    763          167       596   14100       +596          September   2205           167    2038   11980         -
October         530       231    299       13962        -          October        760        231       529   14100       +529          Ocotber        789         231      558   12538         -
November                 2243  -2243        11719       -          November                 2244    -2244    11856         -           November                  2243   -2243    10295
December                 2501  -2501        9218        -          December                 2503    -2503      9353        -           December                  2501   -2501      7794        -
January                  2393  -2393        6825        -          January                  2393    -2393      6960        -           January                   2393   -2393      5401        -
February                 2448  -2448        4377        -          February                 2448    -2448      4512        -           February                  2448   -2448      2953        -
March                    2225  -2225         2152       -          March                    2225    -2225      2287        -           March                     2220   -2220       733        -
April                     654   -654         1498       -           April                    654      -654     1633        -           April                      647    -647        86        -
13358     13495                           -                       14686    13498                                                      13673       1 348
1969                                                               1973                                                                1977
May             870       160    710         2208       -          May            342        160       182    1815         -           May            392         160      232      318        -
June           3399       154   3245         5453       -           June         2835        154      2681    4496         -           June          2554         154    2400      2718        -
July           5241       160   5081       10534        -           July         4668        160      4508    9004         -           July          2671         160    2511      5229        -
August         3948       160   3788       14100       +222         August       3632        160      3472   12476         -           August        2947         160    2787      8016        -
September    3243         167   3076       14100    +3076          September   1793          169      1621   14100         -           September   3606           167     3439   11455
October         536       231     305       14100      +305         October        272       232        40   14100         +40         October        355         231      124   11579         -
November                 2244  -2244        11856       -           November                2243    -2243   11857                      November                  2243   -2243    9336          -
December                 2503  -2503         9353       -          December                 2501     -2501     9356        -           December                  2501   -2501      6835        -
January                  2393  -2393         6960       -          January                  2393    -2393      6963        -           January                   2390   -2390      4445        -
February                 2448  -2448        4512        -          February                 2448    -2448      4515        -           February                  2438   -2438      2007        -
March                    2225  -2225         2287       -          March                    2225    -2225      2290        -           March                     2210   -1853       154        -357
April                     654   -654         1633       -           April                    654      -654     1636        -           April                      647    -154         0        -493
17237     13498                                                   13200      13495                                                    12525       13461                          (6Z)
1970                                                                1974                                                               1978
May             379       160    219         1852       -           Majy           542       160       382    2018         -           May             377        160      217      217
June           2574       154   2420        4272        -          June          3299        154      3145    5163         -           June          2747         154    2593      2810
July           4058       160   3898        8172        -           July         2577        160      2417     7580        -           July          2486         160     2326    5136         -
August         4028       160   3868       12040        -           August       4375        160      4215   11795         -           August        5241         160    5081   10217          -
September    2403         167   2236       14100      +176         September    791          167       624   12419         -           September   1638           167    1471   11688
October         404       231    173       14100      +173         October         726       231       495   12914         -           October        933         231      702   12390
November                 2244  -2244        11856                   November                2243              10671        -           November                  2243   -2243   10147
December                 2503  -2503         9353                  December                 2501               8170        -           December                  2501   -2501      7646
January                  2393  -2393        6960                    January                 2393               5777        -           January                   2393   -2393      5253
February                 2448  -2448        4512        -          February                 2448               3329        -           February                  2448   -2448      2805
March                    2225  -2225         2287       -          March                    2225               1104        -           March                     2220   -2220       585
April                     654   -654         1633       -           April                    654                450        -           April                      647    -585        0         -62
13846    13498                                                    12310    13495                             -                        13422       1344                           (1%)
1971                                                              1975                                                                1979
May             295       160    135         1768       -           May            458       160       298      748        -           May           1000         160      840      840        -
June           4821       154   4667         6435       -           June         2631        154      2477     3225        -           June          2608         154    2454      3294        -
July           4041       160   3881       10316        -           July         3746        160      3586    6811         -           July          3781         160     3621     6915        -
August         3587       160   3427       13743        -           August       4173        160      4013   10824         -           August        5267         160     5107   12022         -
September       885       167     718      14100       +361         September   1146         167       979   11803         -           September   1428           167     1261   13283         -
October         514       231    283       14100       +283         October        782       231       551   12354         -           October        291         231       60   13343
November                 2244  -2244       11856        -          November                 2243    -2243   10111          -           November                  2243   -2243    11100
December                 2503  -2503         9353       -           December                2501     -2501     7610        -           December                  2501   -2501      8599
January                  2393  -2393        6960        -          January                  2393     -2393     5217        -           January                   2393   -2393      6206
February                 2448  -2448        4512        -          February                2448    -2448       2769        -           February                  2448   -2448      3758        -
March                    2225  -2225         2287                   March                   2220     -2220      549        -           March                     2225   -2225      1533        -
April                     654   -654         1633       -           April                    647      -549        0        -98         April                      650    -650       883        -
13142    13498                                                    12936      13483                          (17)                      14375       13491
1/  Includes Mudon M&D (1880 AF) Irrigation  (11,440 AF) & Net Evaporation loss from Reservoir.
2/  End of Month Content - 1968 includes 1636 AF carried over from 1967.                                                                                                                      '   x
Average annual Reservoir Yield = 13,235 A.F.   Average annual shortage = 17-



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Mudon Town Water Supply
Water Demand and Production Irojections
1986                1991               2001
1.   Total Population (39,725 in 1980) (annual
growth rate of 2.2%)                                       45,265               50,470             62,740
2.   Served Population
(i)   by house connectiona
- persons                                               9,050               15,140            21,960
- percentage of served pop.                                27                   35                 39
(ii)   by standposts
- persons                                              24,900               27,760            34,510
- percentage of served pop.                                73                   65                 61
(iii)   total served population
- persons                                              33,950               42,900            56,470
- percentage of total pop.                                  75                  85                 90
3.   Water Demand per Capita
(i)   house connections, Iged/lcd                            30/135               35/160             40/180
(ii)   standposts, Igod/led                                   15/70                15/70              20/90
4.   Water Production
- aver. productIon in IMgd                                    0.65                0.95               1.57
- aver. production in m3d                                      2,950               4,320              7,135
- aver. demand per capita Igcd/lcd                            19/87               22/100             28/126
5.   Water Consumption
(i)   House Connections0
- total IMdg/m d                                       0.21/955             0.43/1,955        0.75/3,410
- per capita Igcd/lcd                                  23/105               28/127            34/155
(ii)   Standposts
- total IMgd/m3d                                       0.23/1,270           0.33/1,500        0.59/2,680
- per capita Igcd/lcd                                  11/50                12/55             17/77
(iii)   Total Consurmption
- IMgd/m3d                                             0.49/2,225           0.76/3,455        1.34/6,090
- av. per capita Igcd/lcd                              14/64                18/82             24/109
6.   Unaccounted-for water
(i)   percentage of av. production                           25                   20                 15                     H
(ii)   total IMgd/m3d                                         0.16/725             0.19/865           0.23/1,045
1/ includes provision for unaccounted-for water as in 6 of this Annex
(public use, operational losses and users outside standpost
service radius)



-47-
ANNEX 1
BURMA                                         Table 7
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Incr.
Cropped Area (ac)               Yield (T/ac)                     Production T             Prod. I/
Crops                  P          W         W          P         W         W           P         W         W        (T)
Kinmundaung:
Paddy-local           1091      1955       500         .43       .45       .8         469       475       400       -75
Paddy-'dYV             364       400      2500         .64       .74      1.7         233       296      4250     3954
Sesame                1454      1454      1500         .06       .065      .25         87        94       375     28.1
L.S. Cotton           -         -         1500         -        -          .60        -         -         900      900
Sunflower                14       14       500         .16       .17       .30          2         2       150       148
Groundnut                1        11      1000         .15       .16       .95          2         2       950      948
Maize                  984       984      -            .24       .25       .60        236       246       -       -246
Pulses                1082      1082      -            .12      .13        .25        130       141      -        -141
Azin:
Paddy
Paddy-local (M) 2/   1800       1600      1000        .78       .8        1.0        1404      1280      1000     -280
Paddy-HYV (M) 2/       200       400      1000        .93      1.0         1.5        186       400      1500      900
Paddy-HYV (DS) 3/    -          -         2000         -        -         1.8         -         -        3600     3600
Orchards 4/
Durian                -         -          255        -         -         7.5         -         -        1594     1594
Mango                 -         -          255         -        -        10.0         -         -        2125     2125
Pomelo                -         -          340        -         -         9.0         -         -       3060      3060
Banana                -         -          340 5/     -         -        16  6/       -         -        1285     1285
Pineapple             -         -          340 5/      -        -        20  6/       -         -        2013     2013
Vegetable (Groundnut)-          -          170 5/      -        -           .95 6/    -         -          65       65
1/ These are the production increases envisaged after the area and productivity build-ups are completed except
for intercropped banana, pineapple and groundnut where the Azin scheme's maximum production has been given.
2/ (M) = Monsoon cropped paddy.
3/ (DS)   Dry season paddy
4/ Orchards:
Proj. Year.  Yl-4       Y5     Y6      Y7     Y8      Y9-30
(a) Land development (ac)       -       340     170    170    170       -
(b) Maturity attained 5 years after planting for pomelo and mango and 9 years for durian.
(c) Yield buildup is attained at the rates of Proj. Yr:  Y5          Y6     Y7      Y8      Y9
20%    40%    60%    80%    100% in succeeding years
after maturity
(d) Proportional area for developed land to be planted to intercrops (%):
Y1-4     Y5      Y6     Y7      Y8      Y9     YIO-30
Banana                  -         33      25     20      20     -       -
Pineapple               -         50      33     25      20      20     -
Groundnut               -         50      33     25      20      20     -
5/ Intercropped area proportionally decreasing with time.
6/ Full non-intercropped yields, actual per acre yields are lower.



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Iaput Requirements Per Acre
Unit            Local Paddy          bYV Paddy            Cotton          Sesame                Maize                  Beans               Groundnuts          Sunflower
Per                                                                                                                                       _____________sam____    _aze_ansrou___u_s_uflo__
I. Kinmundaung                            Acre        p       W       W        P      W           W     W        P    W       W       P     W        W       P       W       W      P      W       W    P       iW      w
Fertilizers & Pesticides
Urea (46%N)                       kg           0       0      25      30      34.7    80       100      0      0      40      0      0      20       0       0      10      -      -      20    0       25      75
TSP (46% P2 05)                   kg           0       0      12.5    0        0       40       50      0      0      20      0      0      10       0       0       5      -      -      30    0       25      50
MP (60% K)                        kg           0       0       0       0       0       20       40      0      0      10      0      0       5       0       0       5      -      -      30    0        0      20
Pesticides                        Kyats        0       0       0       0       0       85      220      0      0      70      0      0      35       0       0       0      -      -      95    0        0      35
other Inputs
Seeds                             kg         25      26.1   20        25      28.9    25        10      6      6.6     3      7      7.6     5      15      16.8   20       -      -      30    3        3       5
Parm Yard Manure                  Carts        1       1       1       2       2        1        1      1      1       1      1      1       0       1'      1       0      -      -       0     1       1
Bullocks                      Pair-day        10.5   11       12.5   13.5   15.6    16           9.5  75       8.3     8      9.5  10.3   12.5    7.5    8.4         9      -      -      11    5        6       9
Human labor                    Man-day        32      33.5   43       44      50.9    50        51     19    21       33    21.5  23.4   37         18      20.1   28       -      -      47   15       15.5   25
Unit        Local Paddy Monsoon                       HYV Paddy Monsoon                     bYV Paddy Dry Season
II. Azin Paddylands                        Per
Fertilizers & Pesticides            Acre         P       W       W                        P               w W                          W
Urea  (46% N)                     kg           0       0      20                       12.7    20    80                            100
TSP  (46% P2 05)                  kg           0       0      10                        0        0    40                            40
MP   (60%)                        kg           0       0       0                        0        0    20                            20
Pesticides                        kyats        0       0       0                        0        0    50                            60                                                                                ,
Other Inputs
Seeds                             kg          30      25      20                       32       25    20                            25
Farrm Yard Manure                 Carts        1       3       1                        1        2      1                            0
Bullocks                       Pair-day        9       9.5   12                        10       10    13.5                          15
Human labor                   Man-day         29      29.5   36                        30       31    43                            50
III. Azin Orchard lands
Unit                               Main Crops (W)                                                     Inter Crops (W)
Per              Pomelo                    Durian                   Man o               Banana          Fineapple                 Groundnut
Acre        YI 17  Y2-5   Y6-30    Yl V1Y2-5  Y-100            YY l Y2-5  Y6-100   Yl 2J Y2-3           Yl 1Y2-3         Inputs            Unit Per Acre
Fencing                           Kyats       1000       0       0      1000    0       0       1000      0        0       -       -        -      -        Urea (46%N)            kg        20
Seedlings                         No.           70       0       0        50    0       0         50       0       0      300      0      12000   0         TSP  (46% P2 05)    kg           30
Fertilizer                        Kyats          0      93      93         0   93    93             0    93      93       124      0         65   0         MP (60ZK)              kg        30
Fare Yard Manure                  Carts          7      24      24         5   17    17             5      7       7        4      0          7   0         Pesticides             Kyats  100
Pesticides                        Kyats        200      60      60       100   40    40            90    64       64       40      0         40   0         Seeds                  kg        30
Other Material                    Kyats        630     150     150       630  120   120          630    80        80      220   120         220 200         Farm Yard Manure    earts         I
Labor                             Man-day    231        50      66       212   46    96          220    36        36       60    60         203  83         Bullocks            Pair-day    12
Human labor        Man-day    47
1/ Corresponds to Project Year 5 (after 4 years of construction of dam and irrigation facilities).



-49-
ANNEX 1
Chart 1
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Calendar - Kinmundaung Subproject
May          Jun          Jul    |   Aug           Sep          Oct          Nov          Dec         Jan           Feb         Mar          Apr
ANursery                  p    HYV) 1,500,.
TAand
AT'.splant                      Second Crop
.           I            I            I                  I
AlNursery
and
Transplant
N ursery              .... (HYV) 1,000 .
rand                         First Crop
__         .                    I           I
Ground Nuts - Balance
dWSecond Crop
8
6
4
2
0
MONTHLY RAINFALL PATTERN
1/ Size of area planted determined each year by availability of irrigation water from reservoir.
World Bank - 23636



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Calendar - Azin Subproject
May         June         Jul          Aug          Sep          Oct          Nov          Dec          Jan         Feb          Mar          Apr
6       iPddy~(HYV) 1,OOOA
'&                 ~~~~~~First Crop
~          ~ ~~~~i.                                                                 . . . . .  .   .    ..............
/.~~~5'                                                    ,<,,,,,,,h " '. t, " n'' 
Paddy (HYV) 2r000
Second Crop
....... .......  .. . . ....... ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:::x':N..
50                                                                    _ _ _ _ _
407,77777
c c
0~  30777                                   // /
-t 20                     7                                  
<C>n
10/77                                          .         7
MONTHLY RAINFALL PATTERN
World Bank - 23637         rt >X



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINMUNDAUNG SUB-PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year           1982                     1983                     1984                    1985                     1986                    1987
Quarter    1    2      3  |                           4     1                             2 2    3 3   4 437  14                            2     3    4
Wet Season              Wet Season               Wet Season              Wet Season               Wet Season               i
PROJECT APPROVAL                                        I                                                                          
CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS                                    i                        I                        I .
CONSTRUCTION CAMP                                       i          i             i                                                                        I                                  i
Design and Layout                                                               I _                                              I         I             I j  >
Construction                                                                                                       I                                      
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT                                   i                                                           I _                                   I B    i  c
Contracts Award                                        I         i            T           ,  u                                                           I         i              i
Delivery of Equipment                                  i         i                                      I r                           I                                           I i
KINMUNDAUNG DAM                                                                  I i  i    i              i                                 I i                                              i
Finalize Designs                                _                               i                                         I                                n I       I                      i
Prepare Working Drawings                                                                                                                                  Storage
Construction of Dam and Appurtenant Works                                                                                                                                         I I =    n
Preparation and                                                                                                 I
DIVERSION DAM MODIFICATIONS                             i          Mobilization                                          A i  I -                                     Intial
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM                          j D                  I                                                                                        Init al
Design irField Layout+
Detailed Design and Field Layout                  I     U                   i                           I |                                                          Delivery     i         I
Construction of Canal System                                          1                                                                             I  ,_I
Construction of Drain and Road FacilitiesI 
1,590 Ac         ~~~2,000Ac  I         I  1,500Ac.              I 
ON FARM DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                            W A -j       t                                      I
IFacilities and Staffing             Training and Implementation                   Applied Resarch and Services I-I
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SERVICE                           i                        I | BrI
Baseline SurveyfiI
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                             i       I                 I                              i
TRAINING PROGRAM                                                                                                      i     I I                                                               ! I
Continuous activity.                                                                                                V l n         2
w- __ Intermittent activity.                                                                                                   World Bank   2



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
AZIN SUB-PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Dam and Irrigation Facilities
Calendar Year           1982                    1983                    1984                    198S                    1986                    1987
ITEM                                   Quarter   1    2       3    4       1    2     3    4       1     2     3    4      1    2     3     4      1    2    3    4        1    2      3    4
Wet Season              Wet Season              Wet Season              Wet Season              Wet Season
PROJECT APPROVAL                                        .                        I                       I                       I i
CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS                                                                                                             II
CONSTRUCTION CAMP                                                                            I I  j      I         I                       I
Design and Layout                                                               II                                I
Construction                                           i             _
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT                                                                            > ~
Contract Awards                                                                 I i-                              i                       I
F ne I iz e 0 asi9 ns             ;    ;           t          i              1                                    |         !              I n lt I  I  Ii|                 I  I  t'
Prepare Working Drawings                                                                                                                                 InitIaio   i       ilZ   tioatei  i
Construction  of Dam and Appurtenant Wroks              i            Mobil zation                                                                        
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE NETWORKS                          Oisn  iFedLyui                                 i                       i         i                        Inta         i
Ie sgnI FilLy                                                                           ~Inta
Detailed Design and Field Layout                                                                 _                                                                    i t l Z Z * wDelivery i
Construction of System                                  j|        i |        |i          Z-sRoA                          oA                     5   s.     
I                A                                     I                                 I                                           K'~130     A . 
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                             250I  A      Ini
Prepare1  Facilities and Staffing                           raining and Implementati              Applied Research and Services I  S
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SERVICE                            i|        ZBslnSrr I                         r                                    Z    |     |,           |    1     111           *
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                !|        Z |        I!|         |                                                               
|TRAININ1xG PROGR{AM       [-     
_Contn oativity.orld            Bn- 
Csco fa nA rn W  Intermittent activity.                                                                                     Woks  Mobiliza>onC3
I  I  I   I         I             I                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
MUDON TOWN WATER SUPPLY
Implementation Schedule
1982                   1983                   1984                   1985                   1986                   1987
1    2     3    4      1    23 4              1    2     3    4    1    2    3we      4     1                      1    2    3    4
Iwe-t  I                 wet  Iwet                                  jwet                      vvwet               Iwe I
e season i             | season                 s ason  i               sason                  season i             I season i
Engineering:I                                                                               II                               IIIII
(i)   Feasibility Study         1e1111           I                      I             I        I                       I                      I            I i
(i i)   Final Design                  '4   '  a 1                                     I         I            I                      I         I B
(iii)  Tender Documents                                Arnie I               _                 I             I L                     Test Run I
(iv)   Supervision                     I         i                                    r r  T     r
Procurement:                                           I                                                                     II                     III
(i)    Major Supply Contracts                    Ii l li ti,_ 11...                                          I                      I         I             I        I
(ii)   M inor Supplies                           I                                              i            i                      I   o                   I
Civil Works:I                                          I                                    III                                                                   II
(i)   Treatment Plant                  i         I             I   L                                         I                      I   El                  I
(ii)   Pumping Station                 I         I r
(iii)  Pumping Main                                                                                                                             >  
(iv)   Primary Mains                             II                     II-1
(v)   Secondary Mains                  i         I             i        iI                                  *    W ir
(vi)  Service Reservoir                            I                    r                                                           I         I _
(vii) Operational Buildings                      L                                           I {                                                         11L I
*iii..... Major review of plans, designs and documents                                                                                                    rt X
~~ Continuous activity.                                                                                                                                   tn
wAAw     Intermittent Activity.                                                                                         World Bank-23860



CATEGORY           il- eavyCntuto                gi~s
BIJRMA                                   ~~~~~~~~PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALSTakI ig i-P j t
OOONOITO         PROCUR.     COT3                                                                                                        84                   8O5C                                                                                 87 .z  oC0
4 Craw ir Tractors,              1                      PRIO -
300  IIP w/doZert  &  tippCet   ICR3           1,325 OoTO                  -
6 Crawler  Tractors,                                    OPUOL             -4-i
200OHPw/dozer &ripper                          1.3  nooo4             T-TT1                     
attach.                                                                                t                4
5Front-en,d  loader  4 c.y 1B                 1,0   APROAIOOL       -
wheci type
15 Dump  Tracks,  12  cy.            GB       1 25ORAaL-
Heavy  Cluty  teat-cod               ICB       1,2         IR--    -                                                                                   z
4  Poonp  Trucks,  5c . y.           CCB          120OPOIL
Rear-end  dloop  tipperREIR
2 Motor graders
135  lp  Ilasy  dory
2 Motor graders-                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ------------
70IIP read graders
2  IlydraolJic  Excavators                               IAIA
195  HP, Track  type                 IC           48....
Sloeopfoor  Roller               IC              COPURC
Twin  sets  - towed  typeREIO                                         -
2 Mobile cranes
5 t'on  capacity                     ICB          250  essoI                                           ~                 
PREoooLIF)COTION OCTIONS                                 PROC RPOOC)OCO~~~ 00 A-TOC TOU  ON                                                                                                                                                                               t
0-IITATEPRPUTTIR P PROOLIICTIO  OCOPNT                       PT OP RROOO GE O EECIICTINS 500,0eOLONTIIIIOeCAl                                    T A  TOI                      EITERUO50
--RNA T POLAIT 0C--A    RP  O0                                              IoIOoNE  PSPi CTI  S"CA""'PTTC_PIOU CL) -TC TOT                                                                 .CoOUpOEPOc'O
0-oPRAAO   ' OIIENROE RTTO                                                    00INOO  O  5PC                                                                                                     ICN
EREPOPT O OONROOTO  PREUACPIOOTI0 000                0  OOPpOIT Eo mo   p PTUT      0OUT -ECOO(NOTIQN   O C                                                           CC
C-RARITEAL-CTI R- -TSOTROONOiOOT  O ...)0-TPOOoT                                              T. O -0C0000IN
A- I -  -PEOA-TPOT -ROMMEEO 1000..A11  .                                                      . ...



CATEGORY I - Heavy Construction Equipment, (Cont'd.)
COTNTTO          BURKA                                                  PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                         Tank  Irrigation  Project
4EI"IONDF Core METHODrT = w 0 AIi  ° |     |  u   |  olls, w z   j   84   |   85 1ith                                                                                                                           1 86
2 Roa    Rlo ers                    ICB         88la
6 Power  Augers,  mounted2
bito   (3c) rods and                ICR        295
acpe          css        oror s     0GB          7    STOiTE                   -  -   -
4 concrete Mixers,g
Diesel  motors ICB41 RV19E          +ICB         63
4 Compressors, 600c.f.m.  ICB                  1725ORSO ISOI
2 Tractors, Track type,                                      IC 15
on35 HPc/.f4hm vibraitin            ICB        195
4 roller       ps        hg
WOA-IRETITE*SEOSR0TIONODF PRROOOLITOO TIDN OCOMUENTE                          IINITIATE CRETOROT ION FC YESCITICATION9 ONDEI D1 OsCoOTNTT         9 INITIAL OSLIOFTY AT SITE                IC-NEN CTIOOFONCIRMN                                                                  TD Y 
AND EOALONTIOR CRITERIA                                                    A TRANSMIT SFECIFICATION3SANL RIO DDCDMENTS TO ICC                   I0 INTRTIO DELIVERIES AT SIC,                 CTORTIITIVTR CIDING                                                                TO |F
*-TRASERdTODOCCRAESTROMD  RITERIO TO IO                                      3 IDAOCLEARANCE CT SSCIT ICATSIONoANDEIDDOCUMENTS                   II C INALCDELIVETY AT SITE                 LCO -I,OO0I CDMFETITIVE                                                                0
0-IRA CL EARASECE OF DOOuESJATST SEES CRITERIE                               S ISSUE INYIYTSION TO SIC                                                                                          91DDING                                                                            Nh
S-SENOR EREOOALITISATIOS NOTICE                                              S OPE N 910S                                                                                                    STTOTTSOTN UD 
E-RECEIP*TOFEON'TROCTORPRIEOoSLITICATION Oars                                S TRONTSMIT ECOLCOCI5N RETOOT AN0 00000 TECDMMENDATIONS TO leO                                                 50   ENAVTIOT ION 
F-TRSRUIlT ETALOATIOSI RETORT ANO RECOEMERNSOTIhSE TO ISO                    I IOA CLTOSONCE CT TTCOTMTNCOTIONS
0-100 CLEARANCE OF PEO EWRAETSTIOSS                                          9 AWAAD CONITRACT



CATEGORY II - Light Equi_ment
BURMA                                                       PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
COUNTRY  _rTOCR                                                                                                                                                                          Tank  8rrigation  Proiect
6  Pneumatic  Drills                  PS       25       AP-AL              - --- -
w~CCeSSories                                  2
12  Concrete  Vibrators                                      R                                                                                            P-
nechoanical                                                 IE
4 Configural Pumps                                      RIEO I)
1,200  gpmRP                                    4------
2 Bar  cutting  & Bending                                                                                 5                                                              -  - - -  - -
machines                              ICB        13
I Arc  Welding  Set                   ICB       19
2 Compressors,  150  c.f.s.   1CB               25      A A-
4 Water  Supply  pumps                                   ,PA-A.EL
30  gpm  (o&m)                        -GB       3
Telecommunications                                       APPRAISAL
Equipme.t                              PS        25-                                                                                                                                                                                    -     -     -
Laboratory Equipment
mechanics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -            
Sibop  Equip.  & Tools  fo                               NAIO
construction   including                I'S      38     ACNR
20  hoaydtY  chaqosaus
-IT AT. MU"ATI.. .1 ----ATI-  OC..t-  I "TIATI"IIAIATII                                                 I.ITIA1                                -... ol~~~~~~~OTTA  OF ROCTRORT                                                               P .~
A-IAITIATEPTEPRA^IRN or PREOAALIR ICOTION OOCUPARNTR                              INITIATE FTEFARATIAN CC ATECITICAT.ONR ANDO RIO DDCUMENTE            9 INITIAL OTLICERT AT RIOT                ITR-INTCTNOTIONVL                                                                         I/ 
ANR EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                      2 TRANSMIT FECIF ICATIDNSANC E1O ODCUMENTS TO IRA                      10 INTERIM OELIOERIESAT RITE                   COAPE'ITICRSIDOINA                                                                    o     I-l
_TRAUAPT AOCWAERPSAEO RITERIATO IRA                                            A IDACLEATANCA OF EFRCIRICATION CNO RIO TOCUIMENTS                     ,I FINA, TTLIVRA  AT CITE                  .ca .CRL-COCORTITIVE
C-I     . O .JAEAN OE  OOCU.MNTEANR CRITERIA                                   4 CASS-E INVITATION To SIC                                                                                             ROINA                                                                                R
O-El  PIR-O-ALIPICATION NOTICE                                                 N OENSIDS- PR--PLENT SERORIEC                                                                                                                                                                               a'
5.-R IPTOF CO-OTRARRR PR--AALIPICATION RATA                                    6  --ANROIT EVALUATION AEPs-T AN- AWARD RECOMMENDATIONSTO 1*                                                      NRA --NETTIATION
-A R$MEIT -OALOATION REPORT AN- RECOEUN*-ATIONS TO IRA                            IOA CLEARANCE OF R[COMMENDATIDNS
A-IRA CLEAPANCE OP EAOENOATIONS                                                a AWATO CANTEACT



CATEGORY II - Light Equipment (Cont'd . )
DOUNTRV           BURMtA                                                            PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                                -0oire   Tank Irrigation Project
DECiSINT   OP TeRE               OSUR    ESTIMATED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -     92 _ _ -<_D _ Z8___ _ XIlil1 1;                            
AMA                   MET84A8                                                                                                                                                                                                           III 8A     A 087
1  Sprinkler  Set                         ICEA49                APPRAISAL                                                          AM
Irrigatio,n  Equipssest                   ICE          33                                                                                                            - -E--S--
TatrIMplements                       PS          10-  -E- -E-  --
4  Power  Tillers                          RP           12------
2  Power  Mist  BlOWers                     PS           I      MSSD-    
AD-ULIPINDTIDM    ATIOSEMTOCCOEES  ACIN                                                                                                                                                                                    MESCCC3 ASSIDII.TEET 
OEMS EoALDSEohNCRTERIAtoAlEA eOT                                                         ATSANSAIT EVASISISTIOSSA     AIFDT CNOAWARTD    S C                              ICCOINTETIA0> ToSIT  ATA CIT                          CSMDeTCTT    AIDDaNA                                                                               OS 
G-SEDAWT C ANANceET 5MM CRIMTERIA TIO  lAAD CIDDCLEU                                                     CNC T SPCDTCTO  US D      I  SAEMSISNLSISSC  IE.0 DC   ORTTA 
C-EA SL AP SO   0   O CO SE DS  A A  RI E IUA                                 SS E  NS ST   I N O-IDA1                                                                                                               01 0                                                                                          5
A-ISiS   S*EMUALISCASIOM    PEOTICE                              OPEN                   -  -C  -S-.TU-ENTC-I-T-S-            -
E-EEOEOIPTO  COSETRADYA SREADDLIPCUTION AUT  S TOCNSSDTSDCLAAT IO  MASCOT US  COCOA O-A-O-TT-CTI-STC ISA                                                        SEA-EA-T-CTIA
S-RUUITECLUTAT   EPRTOA  ECNSEATINSOIO                                     IS  CEOACASTACTASSTIN
A-ID  AEURUNE O  AESMEESAUSOSE                                            0 CSAO  US-AUL



CATEGORY 111 - Vehicles
BURMA                                                  PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                I-CT       T.nk  Irrigation  Project
SECA R IPTIN eF ITEM   F      COC/E DATIDATRA                        |-  _' _aOHtFOzOXI            
AND            EDOCIRD.    COST              P A        C                                                                                                                                              861 a 
61 T,tucks   - Water Bouse            I'      14       A-PRAIAL -
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..  .~ 1.1 I                                                                                                                                                                     0  
6 Trr,cks     Fuel Tankers           P       14
1500 gal.
7 Tracks  - Flat bed                                   A I         -
8-ton
35- X2000, Mazda Jeep,    E                    3        PRIA 
4x4
1 2 -X72000, Mazda Jeep                                NE-P-A-S-L
XV. 
1itmotorcycles  100  cc.    IGB                17     7DChRIta
t(StaLe  Fart  aTId  06W)                              AEA                                                                                                                                     O
2 Fatm  Ttactorts  - 60  HiP   ICB            113      APPRIS-
su/dozet & bucke,t                                     PSISA 
7Fatrm Tractors  - 50  HiP                           OPAR
u/trailer  (construct ion) RP                  6--------
3 Tippet a/winch                     RP        50      -SPA-SL-
41 Bicycles, ID, State
Farms,  Research, &                  RP          5    AmD
Traisning  Farms                                _
A-ISIdIKTC REPRSRATIAN OF PASS CALIFICAC ASA5CDDCMNTD                        - CN  I AT CCSCPACAIC zCC O  PCCCCICIAC 155 AhDIC S CCCCsAeTCT        A I CIAC CC.IA5TT AT 01CC                 CR -IS.TSDSCT IINAC                                                                       -S It  :
ASS SCALUASCIN CRITERIA                                                    C CT ACTAIC COICCA sE llcThl>s 551. SIll IIIICTCMENS TO IDA          oC INCSITCIIADlTCICnsAn CIA C<                CCOSntT N'ITI-eCCIsA                                                                  C
S-TRANRIT AAALRAPNTS ASS CRITERAI TA IDA                                     C DCA ACCACATICS DF OTACIFCAT CC ASIC SIC CCIACIT S                   I T IDA1 DS <5V1C  ATTISIT                CR, aLA.LACTTTTITICS                                                                  °
C--IDA CLEARANCE AS DACCAMENTS ANT CRITERIA ISU MrAoNo DEDOG
D S-SUA PREAAALISICOCION NATICE                                              C CPSN3FS                                                                                                       PSC CC CLC NT TEAsECINA                                                               03
e.READISOtTOCANSRATTOR PMESAALICICOCA1NODATA                                ECrAANCsIaTCSAuA<ATI5C  ACPECAC ANO AWARD TSC5TCTSCSAC  CCC rs CDA                                              T.CA REACTIACI
P-7RANUIT EAALUAAIAN ASSORT ANO SecoAREDRAT IONS TA IAS                      r CIA CLSACATCCE OF RLCC NOMMhATIONS
S-IDA ALSASANCE OF RECOMNENCATIANS                                              AWOCNAT



CATEGORY IV - Small EquiPment and Material
BURMA                                            PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                           Tank Irrigation Project
SAANIN      RNTi                        ,RIC   Tan   Iriato V Z =
Land Classification             PS       18                         'LTINLt 1   -
Equipment and Supplies,                          aI-I.
Hydrologic  Investigatio,  PS            31      --
instrument and supplie -s,                                                                                                                                                                                  - - - - - - 
set                                            AA
Eqvlimentfor gric   PS   4 RelSeDt  t<XX AFF                                                                                                                                       g- -A  - - - - - -   
Survey Instruments
Supplies                        PS       37
Office Machines &
Equipment                       PS       98
Shop Equipment, Tools          ICE       25
and supplies tot OEM
set                                             ACTT-
Office Machines and                                  E
Equipment sec State             PS       12                                                                                                                               I        I
Laboratory and office           PS       44    AIPRAISAL
Equipment for Agric.
Estension & ResearchAC-------
Aerometeorological
Equipment for Research          PS       10     ADIE
& Training farms                                A-AL
Audio-visual Equipment          PS       17    A     -
fur Training Centers se't
Office Equipment for                             - A 
Research & Training Farl  PS             21    REVSE
set
PNISUALI-IAT-D ADYION                                               A-UDDRENVAV-InNN                                                                                AETAVY -RPE -SSDNT                                                                X
AND IVALAATON NCRIERI    A                                       A STRNSUIA SCEVIIAIONS RFT ANL EID AWVDN  .O IDA                              AT DIV                 CE T13T
*_-ThANC   -DNSENTARDD-TNIATC-E-                                     ID CLEAANEYT EPCT. AINUSl  OUET                            lFNLSLIAYA ISC-OA  OPTTU
C-.RAN .IT ECULDATIRN ROFiO AND RECOC- M. NDATIONS SD IDA          I IOA CLARAANCE VT RECOMM NDATIN                                                                      GO
A-IDA ELSASAANc A! RECDNSSNDAYIANSS DOD AWA  COIIYSAYT



CATEGORY IV - Smlall Equipmlent and Material (Cont'd.)
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EOUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
couNTRY-       BURM,A                                                                                                                                          eRRoOcC   Tank  IrrioatintioJ.Ec
URO8 2P8CUTE4 COST                                                                                                                  8
D-    O DULl*tTITY            SENTC                                S                                        0NeD                                                               seRDN  HW
Office Equipment  fur               PS         2 
Monitoring  & Evcaluation
20 Power Sprayers                   RP         2    REPTOiRIN T I
20 0D1V  Sprayers                  PS          4
1 Peat Hole Digger                 PS          5     POES-
5 Elec. Pruning Saws               PS          5    000
15  Power Scythes;                 PS          2    'RC,RRC-
Garden  TolsPS                               1
..D EOALUAT-OCRITF.IC                                                   TCCUNRICI                    --CCUTICUCRI  OUENCTC  CO IDAEI  EIVCE  TCITOUEICV  15                                                                                                            o'0
P-T*ASIT [CALUOTI-E Rt.ROT -RC REC-1M4-ERT-OR TOIR                        TICCUC '      C.ACOUCOU ..-A1C0N$
0,IDA CUARARCE OP RERCNMENATIOPSS                                            _ 00*  CO_CAOT



CATEGORY V - Town Water Supply  Equipment
BIJRMA                                                 PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS                                                      Tank                   Project
SAUhTETO                                                                                                                                                           ERSIECT   TakIrrigatiunPrjc
C_IDA PTIRE RE. ITEM  oN    ES T6 IM A
D_I"UE~ ~ ~ ~~~~~- iOUAflilAT10 NOIC                              S. OFE DID                                                      IS IRION S N I
E_OlTO  OTADDRPfULI CTD DEHATEA         aN                          6 TRANtMI OVIl-UAT,dRFR  N AWADCS S REOMN AleO TO                           Rl-AIC                              NEGOTATION
M-RNITeAUADIT1  R109AN         MECUUNDTIN TO DA)IOA2SARNCAAF t-GMM,ATON
2 P-mps, 250  gpm fur              ICE        27       TERMINAL                    -5-
Main  pump  station                                     l.E
2  chlorination  pu,Mps            ICB        12I 
1 Transformer                       HP        24      RESIDEDt
IGenerator                        -C- 27
3,000 Water  meters                ICE        92      T-IDE-
2Tapping machines                 IC-2-SIE                                           -          -        --      ---                                                                                                         
1 Hydraulic  cutter                ICE          2     RESISTSL                                                                                                                                                               ----                  ----       
Survey  and  drafting              ICE        15       TIE
equipment------
Hand Tools                          P 
Pipes[C                                      45I--------
PTTEMALIPICAITID ACTIOSTRCDMTTACIN
-MI'T                "IT                 1-1 T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SN R
STM RA EAWTRITER-IR     T.'.                                         CIRADILSIIAINAOTRTOONRT  IA INTERIM AELC-LETISTRITCR-lIILMAAN 
p_.-TRASITMMRMETTR MER RTETI-T-IDAE RA-CLEAR ANC T  SEIIO-                                           A   S  I TOCMENS                           ISISLI05   A1TSILTE                      LE-SLAL OSMERTIT-C
,-M-IAE PRMEALTITTR-T-TI---SE M -R                                                                                                                                                        TEIIRENT E--TIN
I=TEAWAT -OALAAIRT. RE.OT AND -DRORATNAIONR TR IRA                          I IS C--I.EI RCRRNA I        ONST
S-IMACLA.ATAEE ST TEREEEM-ANTI-N                                           R-AL :11.



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Training Provision for Implementing Agencies
Total Requirements          1983                     1984                     1985                    1986
SPECIALIZATION                            M an           - 22n d                              4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st  2nd   3rd   4th
Staff    Months   1 St  2nd   3rd   4th   1 St          3r   4h 1S         n    3Rainy
Season  I            I  Season  I                 eason  I                Season
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
PLANNING ENGINEERS (MULTIPURPOSE)            2        12             I                        I            i 12 t                               I
I  I             I    12    I             I          I            I~1
IRRIGATION SYSTEM DESIGNERS                 2         12             I          I                                      I 1                     I           I
DAM DESIGNERS                                2         12                                           1 1                           I |
SOIL MECHANICS AND TESTING                  2         12                   12                            I             I          I             I          I
CONCRETE DESIGN                             1          6              r       6i                                    
LAND CLASSIFIERS                            1          6                                      I t                      I 1                     I
I       I   ~~~~12                                        II
WATER MANAGEMENT ENGINEERS                   2        12             I    1                    r                                  I
I 12                                                                               I
ENGINEERING SURVEYORS                        2        12              r         t                                                 I             I          I
SUBTOTAL                                    14 84                          36                      42                        6
AGRICULTURAL CORPORATION                                                   6                      _6               
OIL SEED CROPS                               2        162                                           
COTTON                                       1         6                                       L    6            
HORTI CU LTUR E                              2        12              LM 6 6                                                                    I 6
AGRICULURA   COPOATO                                                        66I 
SAUTEROTAL                                            42                   24                       18 
TOTAL                                        21       126                  60                       6                        6 
VVorld Bank-23815



-63-
ANNEX 2
Table 1
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary  Cost Estimate 1/
Item                                     Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total   % F.E.
----------Kyats M --------          -----Kyats
Kinmundaung
Civil Works
Dam and Reservoir                             7.9        0.9        8.8       1.10       0.12       1.22      10
Irrigation & Drainage Facilities              6.2        0.4        6.6       0.86       0.06       0.92       6
Construction Camp & Roads                     4.3        1.3        5.6       0.60       0.18       0.78      23
Agric. Research & Ext. Facilities             1.0        -          1.0       0.14        -         0.14       -
Subtotal Civil Works                  19.4        2.6      22.0       2.70       0.36       3.06      12
Equipment & Vehicles                            6.7       26.4       33.1       0.93       3.67       4.60      80
Engineering & Administration                    4.1        -          4.1       0.57        -         0.57       -
Physical Contingencies                           3.5       0.4         3.9      0.49       0.05       0.54       9
Subtotal Base Costs                   33.7      29.4       63.1       4.69       4.08       8.77      46
Price Contingencies                             5.1        4.3        9.4       0.70       0.60       1.30      46
Subtotal Kinmundaung                  38.8      33.7       72.5       5.39       4.68      10.07      46
Azin
Civil Works
Dam and Reservoir                             7.7        0.8        8.5       1.07       0.11       1.18      9
Irrig. & Drainage Facilities                  4.2        0.3        4.5       0.58       0.04      0.62       6
Construction Camp & Roads                     3.5        0.9        4.4       0.49       0.13       0.62     21
Mudon Water Supply Facilities                11.9        3.7       15.6       1.66       0.51       2.17     24
State Farm Facilities                         2.0        0.1        2.1       0.28       0.02       0.30       5
Agric. Res. & Ext. Facilities                 0.4        0.1        0.5       0.05       0.01       0.06      17
Subtotal Civil Works                  29.7        6.0      35.7       4.13       0.83       4.96      17
Equipment & Vehicles                            8.9       31.0       39.9       1.23       4.31       5.54      uu
Engineering & Administration                    6.3        -          6.3       0.87        -         0.37       -
Physical Contingencies                          5.4        0.9        6.3       0.75       0.12       C.S7      14
Subtotal Base Cost                    50.2      37.9       33.1       6.93       5.26      12.24      43
Price Contingencies                              7.9       6.0       13.9       1.10       0.83       1.93      43
Subtotal Azin                         58.2      43.8      102.0       8.08       6.09      14.17      43
Strengthening Implementing Agencies 2/
Technical Assistance                            0.7        6.8        7.5       0.10       0.94       1.04      90
Training                                        -          2.7        2.7        -         0.38       0.38    100
Equipment & Vehicles                             2.6       5.4        7.9       0.36       0.75       1.10      68
Subtotal                               3.3      14.9       18.1       0.46       2.07       2.52      82
Price Contingencies                             0.4        2.0        2.4       0.06       0.28       0.34      82
Subtotal Strengthening Implem. Agencies    3.7          16.9       20.6       0.52       2.35       2.86     82
Total Project Cost                   100.7       94.4     195.1      14.00      13.10      27.10      48
1/ Includes US$ 1.0 M of reserved procurement items.
2/  Includes Short-term Dam Specialist (US$ 20,000 total) and equipment
for monitoring (US$30,000 total).



-64-                                    ANNEX 2
Table 2
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Kinmundaung Subproject Cost Estimate
Item                       Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total   % F.E.
Kinmundaung                    ------- Kyat M ---------  _____----US$ M---------
Dam Structure                  3.4       0.2      3.6        0.47      0.03      0.50      5
Spillways                      4.0       0.6      4.6        0.56      0.08      0.64    13
Outlet Works                   0.5       0.1      0.6        0.07      0.01      0.08    17
Subtotal                    7.9       0.9      8.8         1.10     0.12       1.22    10
Irrigation & Drainage
Facilities
Rehab. Diversion Weir          0.6       0.1      0.7        0.08      0.02      0.10    14
Canals & Laterals              1.8       -        1.8        0.25      -         0.25      -
Drainage Channels              1.1       -        1.1        0.15      -         0.15      -
On-farm Facilities             2.7       0.3      3.0        0.38      0.04      0.42    10
Subtotal                    6.2       0.4      6.6        0.86       0.06      0.92      6
Construction Camp & Roads
Construction Camp              3.4       1.2      4.6        0.47      0.17      0.64    26
Access & Service Roads         0.9       0.1      1.0        0.13      0.01      0.14    10
Subtotal                    4.3        1.3     5.6         0.60      0.18      0.78    23
Agric. Research & Extension
Facilities
Research & Training Farm:
Storage Buildings           0.4       0        0.4        0.06       0         0.06
Laboratory Building         0.3       0        0.3        0.04       0         0.04
Staff Quarters              0.2       0        0.2         0.03      0         0.03
Extension Training Center   0.1          0        0.1        0.01      0         0.01
Subtotal                     1.0      0.0      1.0        0.14      0          0.14
Subtotal Civil Works          19.4       2.6    22.0         2.70      0.36      3.06     12
Equipment & Vehicles
Construction                   5.8      25.2    31.0         0.80      3.50      4.30    81
0&M                            0.6       0.3      0.9        0.08      0.04      0.12    33
Research & Extension           0.4       0.9      1.3        0.05      0.13      0.18    72
Subtotal                    6.7      26.4    33.1          0.93      3.67      4.60    80
Engineering & Admin. 1/          4.1        -       4.1        0.57      -         0.57      -
Physical Contingencies 2/        3.5       0.4      3.9        0.49      0.05      0.54 111
Subtotal Base Costs        33.7      29.4    63.1         4.69      4.08      8.77    46
Price Contingencies              5.1       4.3      9.4        0.70      0.60      1.30    46
Total Kinmundaung Cost   38.8        33.7    72.5          5.39      4.68    10.07    46
1/  12% of civil works, and construction equipment/vehicles (net of residual value).
2/ 15% of civil works, engineering and administration.



-65-                              ANNEX 2
Table 3
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Azin Subproject Cost Estimate
Item                       Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total    % F.E.
 Kyats M ---------          --------US$ M ---------
Azin Dam
Dam Structure                5.0        0.3      5.3        0.70      0.04      0.74        6
Spillway                     1.3        0.2      1.5        0.18      0.03      0.21       14
Outlet Works 1/              1.4        0.3      1.7        0.19      0.04      0.23       18
Subtotal                   7.7        0.8      8.5        1.07     0.11      1.18        9
Irrigation & Drainage
Facilities
Canal & Drainage Channels  2.2          0.1      2.3        0.31      0.01      0.32        4
On-farm Facilities           2.0        0.2      2.2        0.27      0.03      0.30        9
Subtotal                   4.2        0.3      4.5        0.58      0.04     0.62         7
Construction Camp & Roads
Construction Camp            3.4        0.9      4.3        0.57      0.13      0.60       21
Access & Service Roads       0.1        -        0.1        0.02      -         0.02       -
Subtotal                   3.5        0.9      4.4        0.49     0.13      0.62       20
Mudon Water Supply 2/
Water Production & Pump-
ing Works                    5.4        0.6      6.0        0.75      0.08     0.83        10
Water Distribution System  6.1          3.1      9.2        0.85      0.43      1.28       34
Buildings                    0.4        -        0.4        0.06      -         0.06       -
Subtotal                  11.9        3.7    15.6         1.66     0.51      2.17       24
State Farm 2/
Administration Building    0.2          0.1      0.3        0.02      0.02      0.04       33
Storage                      0.2        -        0.2        0.03      -        0.03       -
Staff Quarters               1.4        -        1.4        0.20      -         0.20      -
Concrete Tanks               0.2        -        0.2        0.03      -        0.03       -
Subtotal                   2.0        0.1      2.1        0.28     0.02      0.30        5
Agric. Research & Extension
Facilities
Research Farm Buildings    0.3          0.1      0.4        0.04      0.01      0.05       25
Extension Training Order   0.1          -        0.1        0.01      -        0.01       -
Subtotal                   0.4        0.1      0.5        0.05     0.01      0.06       20
Subtotal Civil Works        29.7        6.0    35.7         4.13      0.83      4.96       17
Equipment & Vehicles
Construction                 6.1       28.7    34.8         0.85      3.98     4.83       82
O&M                          0.6        0.1      0.7        0.08      0.02      0.10       20
Mudon Water Supply           0.8        1.1      1.9        0.11      0.16      0.27       59
State Farm                   1.0        0.4      1.4        0.14      0.05     0,19       26
Research & Extension         0.4        0.7      1.1        0.05      0.10      0.15       67
Subtotal                   8.9       31.0    39.9         1.23     4.31      5.54       78
Engineering & Admin. 3/        6.3         -       6.3        0.87       -        0.87        -
Physical Contingencies 4/    5.4          0.9      6.3        0.75      0.12      0.87       14
Subtotal Base Costs         50.2       37.9    88.1         6.98      5.26    12.24       43
Price Contingencies            7.9        6.0    13.9         1.10      0.83      1.93       43
Total Azin Subproject       58.1       43.9   102.0         8.08      6.09    14.17        43
1/  Includes cost of Mudon Water Supply Pipeline to filter plant.
2/ Not including Equipment and Vehicles.
3/ 12% of civil works, and construction equipment/vehicles (net of residual value).
41 15% of civil works, engineering and administration.



-66-
BURMA,                                                    ANNEX 2
Table 4
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Mudon Water Supply Cost Estimate
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign       Total    x F.E.
-------Kyat '000---------        --------US$ '000----------
Water Production & Pumping Works
Inlet Pipe (1000 ft)                                30         110        140         4         15          19
Treatment Plant:
Slow Sand Filter (0.6 IMgd) 1/                1,740           20      1,760       242          3         245
Clear water Reservoir (500,000 Ig)            2,860           30      2,890       397          4         401
Main Pumping Station 2/                            740         430      1,170       103         60         163
Subtotal                                  5,370         590      5,960       746         82         828         10
Water Distribution System
Water Mains (incl. 140 standpipes and
30 fire hydrants) 3/                          3,040       3,020      6,060        422        419         841
Elevated Service Reservoir (100 ft high,
cap. 130,000 Igs)                             3010            80     3090         418         11         429
Subtotal                                  6,050       3,100      9,150       840        430        1,270        34
Operational Buildings 4/                             440           0        440        61          -          61          0
Subtotal 1-3                             11,860       3,690    15,550    1,647          512       2,159         24
Engineering & Administration                     1,710           0      1,710       238          -         238
Physical Contingencies (15%)                    2,040          550      2,590       283         77         360
Subtotal                                 15,610       4,240    19,850    2,168          589       2,757         21
Equipment & Vehicles 5/                              790       1,150      1,940       110        160         270        59
Subtotal                                16,400        5,390    21,790    2,278          749       3,027        25
Price Contingencies                             3,620        1,190      4,810       503        165         66b        25
Total Mudon Water Supply                     20,020       6,580    26,600    2,781           914       3,695        25
1/  Includes inflow structure, filters and chlorination plant.  (Cost of chlorination pumps included
in equipment costs).
2/  Includes 12 inch diameter pumping main, 7,000 ft long.  Cost of two pumps (850 Igpm capacity), standby
generator and transformer included in equipment costs.
3/  Includes 2,900 ft of 12-in pipe, 4,100 ft of 10-inch pipe, 9,900 ft of 8-inch pipe, 19,300 ft of 6-inch
pipe, 31,800 ft of 4-inch pipe and 2,800 ft of 3-inch pipe.
4/  Includes three, 2-unit staff quarters buildings, one store/workshop and construction of a pipeyard and
compound fence at treatment plant site.
5/  Annex 2, Table 6.



-67-
ANNEX 2
BU_MA                                                     Table 5
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Strengthening of Implementing Agencies
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign       Total    % F.E.
-------Kyat '000 ---------      --------US$  000 -----
Consultancy Services -/
Irrigation Department (76 mm)                    660       6,240    6,900          92         866        958       90
Mudon Water Supply    ( 5 mm)                      40         410      450           6         57         63       90
Subtotal         (81 mm)                   700       6,650    7,350          98         923     1,021       90
Dam Review Specialist                                10         130       140          2          18         20      90
Overseas Training -/
Irrigation Department (84 mm)                    -         1,810    1,810         -           252        252      100
Agricultural Corp.    (42 mm)                     _           910      910        -           126        126      100
Subtotal        (126 mm)                   -         3,720    3,720         -           378        378     100
Equipment and Vehicles 3/
Irrigation Department                          2,340       5.360    7,700         325         745      1,070       70
Agricultural Corp. (monitoring)                   220          20      240         30           3         33        9
Subtotal                                 2,560       5,380    7,940         355         748     1,103       68
Base Costs                                       3,270      14,890   18,160         455       2,067      2,522       82
Price Contingencies                                 440       2,010    2,450         61         279        340       82
Total                                            3,720      16,890   20,610         516       2,34e      2,o62       82
1/ Estimated average cost per man-month:
Consultant's Billing Cost                  US$ 9,000
Int'l Travel & Related Costs                   2,000
Other Reimbursable F.C. Costs                    400
Per Diem and/or Housing                        1,000
Other Local Costs                                 200
Total                               US$12,600
2/  Estimated average cost per month:            uS$ 3,000
3/ Ref. Annex 2, Table 7.



-68-                            ANNEX 2
Tabie 6
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Annual Operation and Maintenance Cost
Kinmundaung                                                  Kyat        US$
Staff Costs and Allowances                               134,640      18,170
Diesel and Gasoline                                       32,400       4,500
Other Materials and Supplies                              12,960        1,800
Total Annual Cost                                      180,000      25,000
Cost per ac (5,000 ac)                                    36         5.00
Azin
Staff Costs and Allowances                                97,560      13,550
Diesel and Gasoline                                       21,240       2,950
Other Materials and Supplies                              10,800       1,500
Total Annual Cost                                      129,600      18,000
Cost per ac of Irrigated Area (2800 ac) 1/                43         6.00
1/   46% of O&M Cost (K59,800) is on Azin Dam.  Since about 14% of water
from Dam is for Mudon water supply, about 59,800 x 0.14 - K8,370 of
O&M Costs is for Mudon.  K129,600 - 8,370 = K121,230 for Irrigation.



-69-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 1 of 7
BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
List of Equipment and Vehicles
Estimated Cost
C.I.F. Rangoon
Quantity   Unit Price   Total Cost
Item                                                     --------US$'000--------
I.  Construction Equipment - Kinmundaung _/
Tractor Dozer, w/ Ripper, 300 HP                        2          265.0        530.0
Tractor Dozer, w/ Ripper, 200 HP                        3          180.0        540.0
Frontend Loader, Wheeled, 4 c.y.                        2          160.0        320.0
Dump Truck, 12 c.y.                                     6           60.0        360.0
Dump Truck,  5 c.y.                                     2           24.0         48.0
Motor Grader, 135 HP                                    1          100.0        100.0
Motor Grader,  70 HP                                    1           55.0         55.0
Hydraulic Excavator, Track, 195 HP                      1          270.0        270.0
Sheep Foot Roller, Twin Type                            2            6.0         12.0
Water Bowser, w/ Spray Bar, 1200 Gal.                   3            RP 2/         RP 2/
Mobile Crane, 5 Ton                                     1          100.0        100.0
Crushing Plant, w/ Classifier, 300 CFH                  1           90.0         90.0
Farm Tractor, w/ Dozer & Bucket, 60 HP                  1           45.0         45.0
Tracked Tractor, w/ Vib. Roller, 1.4 m, 35 HP           1           60.0         60.0
Farm Tractor, w/ Trailer, 50 HP                         2            RP 2/        RP 2/
Grout Pump, High Pressure, w/ Accessories               2           15.0         30.0
Concrete Mixer, 3/4 c.y.                                2           20.0         40.0
Compressor, 600 CFM                                     2           35.0         70.0
Pneumatic Drill, w/ Accessories                         3            3.0          9.0
Generator, 35 KW, Diesel                                2            8.5         17.0
Concrete Vibrator, Mechanical                           6            1.0          6.0
Road Roller, Drum Type, 8-10 Ton                        1           35.0         35.0
Centrifugal Pump, 1200 GPM                              2            RP 2/        RP 2/
Bar Cutting & Bending Machines                          1            5.0          5.0
Arc Welding Set                                         1           15.0         15.0
Oil Tanker, TE 11, 1500 Gal.                            3            RP 2/        RP 2/
Flat Bed Truck, 8 Ton                                   3           15.0         45.0
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton                             7            RP 2/        RP 2/
Telecommunication Equipment                            L.S.         10.0         10.0
Laboratory Equip. (Concrete & Soil Mech.)              L.S.         25.0         25.0
Misc. Tools and Equipment 3/                           L.S.         15.0         15.0
Subtotal                                                               2,852.0 4/
Spare Parts (25%)                                                               718.0 4/
Subtotal                                                               3,570.0 4/
Duties, Taxes & Port Costs                                                      530.0 4/
Total - Group I                                                        4,100.00 4/
1/  Some equipment to be transferred to operating office for O&M use after completion
of construction work.
2/  Reserved Procurement (See ANNEX 2, Table 7, Page 6 of 7).
3/  Includes 20 heavy duty chainsaws withi 100% spare parts.
4/ Non-reserved Procurement items only.



-70-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 2 of 7
Estimated Cost
C.I.F. Rangoon
Quantity    Unit Cost  Total Cost
Item                                                     --------US$'000------
II. Construction Equipment - Azin 1/
Tractor Dozer, W/Ripper, 300 HP                        2          265.0        530.0
Tractor Dozer, w/Ripper, 200 HP                        3          180.0        540.0
Frontend Loader, Wheeled, 4 c.y.                       3          160.0        480.0
Dump Truck, 12 c.y.                                    9           60.0        540.0
Dump Truck,  5 c.y.                                    2           24.0         48.0
Motor Grader, 135 HP                                   1          100.0        100.0
Motor Grader,  70 HP                                   1           55.0         55.0
Hydraulic Excavator, Tracked, 195 HP                   1          270.0        270.0
Sheepfoot Roller, Twin Type                            2            6.0         12.0
Water Bowser, w/ Spray Bar, 1200 Gal.                  3            RP 2/        RP 2/
Mobile Crane, 5 Ton                                    1          100.0        100.0
Crushing Plant, w/ Classifier, 300 CFH                 1           90.0         90.0
Farm Tractor, w/ Dozer & Bucket,60 HP                  1           45.0         45.0
Tracked Tractor, w/ 1.4 m Vib. Roller, 35 HP           1           60.0         60.0
Farm Tractor, w/ Trailer, 50 HP                        1            RP 2/       RP 2/
Pneumatic Drill, w/ Accessories                        3            3.0          9.0
Grout Pump, High Pressure, w/ Accessories              2           15.0         30.0
Concrete Batching Plant, 12-15 CYH                     1           50.0         50.0
Concrete Mixer, 3/4 c.y.                               2           20.0         40.0
Compressor, 600 CFM                                    2           35.0         70.0
Generator, 35 KW, Diesel                               2            8.5         17.0
Concrete Vibrator, Mechanical                          6            1.0          6.0
Road Roller, Drum Type, 8-10 Ton                       1           35.0         35.0
Centrifugal Pump, 1200 GPM                             2            RP 2/         RP 2/
Bar Cutting & Bending Machine                          1            5.0          5.0
Water Supply Pump, High Lift, 30 GPM                   2            6.0         12.0
Oil Tanker, TE 11, 1500 Gal.                           3            RP 2/        RP 2/
Flat Bed Truck, 8 Ton                                  4           15.0         60.0
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton                            7            RP 2/        RP 2/
Telecommunication Equipment                           L.S.         10.0         10.0
Lab. Equip. (Concrete & Soil Mech.)                   L.S.         25.0         25.0
Miscellaneous Tools & Equip. 3/                       L.S.         15.0          15.0
Subtotal                                                                3,254.0 4/
Spare Parts (25%)                                                              798.0 4/
Subtotal                                                                4,050.0 4/
Duties, Taxes & Port Costs                                                     600.0 4/
Total-Group II                                                          4,650.0 4/
1/  Some equipment to be transferred to operating office for
O&M use after completion of construction work.
2/  Reserved Procurement (See ANNEX 2, Table 7, Page 6 of 7).
3/  Includes 20 heavy duty chainsaws with 100% spare parts.
74/ Non-reserved Procurement items only.



-71-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 3 of 7
Estimated Cost
C.I.F. Rangoon
Quantity   Unit Cost  Total Cost
Item                                                    ---      US$'000------
III. O&M Equipment- Kinmundaung
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4                         5            RP 1/       RP 1/
Motor Cycle, 100 cc                                      4            1.0           4.0
Compressor, 150 CFM                                      1           10.0         10.0
Water Pump, 30 GPM                                       2            6.0         12.0
Shop Equipment & Misc. Tools                            L.S.         10.0         10.0
Subtotal                                                                     36.0 2/
Spare Parts (23%)                                                                  8.0 2/
Subtotal                                                                     44.0 2/
Duties, Taxes& Port Costs                                                          6.0 2/
Total - Group III                                                            50.0 2/
IV. O&M Equipment - Azin
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4                         5            RP 1/       RP 1/
Motorcycle, 100 cc                                       4            1.0          4.0
Compressor, 150 CFM                                      1           10.0         10.0
Shop Equipment & Misc. Tools                            l.S.         10.0         10.0
Subtotal                                                                     24.0 2/
Spare Parts (23%)                                                                  6.0 2/
Subtotal                                                                     30.0 2/
Duties, Taxes & Port Costs                                                         5.0 2/
Total-Group IV                                                               35.0 2/
V. Mudon Water Supply Equipment - Azin
Pump, 850 GPM (Main Pump Station)                        2           11.0         22.0
Pump, Chlorination                                       2            5.0         10.0
Transformer, 300 KVA, 11/0.4 KV                          1            RP 1/       RP 1/
Generator                                                1           22.0         22.0
Water Meter                                           3000            0.025       75.0
Tapping Machine                                          2            0.75         1.5
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4                         2            RP 1/       RP 1/
Hydraulic Pipe Cutter                                    1            1.5          1.5
Surveying & Drafting Instruments                        L.S.         15.0         15.0
Hand Tools                                              L.S.          3.0          3.0
Subtotal                                                                   150.0 2/
Spare Parts (23%)                                                                 32.0 2/
Subtotal                                                                    182.0 2/
Duties, Taxes & Port Costs                                                        28.0 2/
Total - Group V                                                             210.0 2/
1/ Reserved Procurement (See ANNEX 2, Table 7, Page 6 of 7)
2/ Non-reserved Procurement items only.



-72-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 4 of 7
Estimated Cost
C.I.F. Rangoon
Quantity    Unit Cost    Total Cost
Item                                                   --      US$ '000--------
VI.  Equipment for Strengthening ID
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4                     15            RP 1/        RP 1/
Core Drills, w/ Bits & Rods                           4           60.0        240.0
Power Augers, w/ 35 HP Tractor                        6           40.0       240.0
Land Classifier Equipment & Materials               L.S.          15.0         15.0
Hydrological Equipment                               L.S.         25.0         25.0
Surveying Instruments                               L.S.          30.0         30.0
Office Equipment                                    L.S.          80.0         80.0
Subtotal                                                                630.0
Spare Parts (23%)                                                            145.0
Subtotal                                                                775.0
Duties, Taxes & Port Costs                                                   115.0
Total - Group VI                                                        890.0
VII.  State Farm Equipment - Azin
Tractor with Trailer,50 HP                            2            RP 1/        RP 1/
Tractor Implements                                    2            5.0         10.0
Power Tiller                                          4            RP I1/       RP 1/
Power Mist Blower                                     2            0.5          1.0
Power Sprayer                                        20            PP 1/        RP 1/
ULV Sprayer                                          20            0.2          4.0
Post Hole Digger                                      1            5.0          5.0
Electric Pruning Saw                                  5            1.0          5.0
Power Scythe                                         10            0.2          2.0
Garden Tool                                          Set           L.S.        10.0
6.5 Ton Diesel Truck                                  1            RP 1/        RP 1/
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, i Ton, 4x4                        2            RP 1/        RP 1/
Motorcycles, 100 cc                                   6            1.0          6.0
Bicycles                                             12            RP I/        RP 1/
Office Equipment and Furniture                       Set           L.S.        10.0
Subtotal                                                                 53.0
Spare Parts (23%)                                                              12.0
Subtotal                                                                 65.0
Duties, Taxes and Ports Costs                                                  10.0
Total - Group VII                                                        75.0
1/  Reserved Procurement (See ANNEX 2, Table 7, Page 6 of 7).
2/ Non-reserved Procurement items only.



-73-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 5 of 7
Estimated Cost
C.I.F. Rangoon
Quantity   Unit Cost    Total Cost
Item                                                    --------US$'000 
VIII.   Research, Extension and
Monitoring Equipment
Kinmundaung
Research & Training Farm
Sprinkler Unit Set                                1           40.0         40.0
Tractor w/ Trailer, 50 HP                         1            RP 1/        RP 1/
Tipper w/ Winch, Model TE                         2            RP 1/        RP 1/
Laboratory Equipment                             L.S.         18.0         18.0
Aerometeorological Equipment                     L.S.          4.0          4.0
Extension Program
Audio-visual Equipment                           L.S.         15.0         15.0
Office and Other Equipment                       L.S.         10.0         10.0
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, ½ Ton, 4x4                    1            RP 1/        RP 1/
Bicycle                                           7            RP1/         RP 1/
Azin
Research & Training Farm
Irrigation Equipment                             L.S.         27.0         27.0
Tractor w/ Trailer, 50 HP                         1            RP 1/        RP 1/
Tipper w/ Winch, Model TE                         1            RP 1/        RP 1/
Laboratory Equipment                             L.S.         18.0         18.0
Aerometeorological Equipment                     L.S.          4.0          4.0
Extension Program
Audio-visual Equipment                           L.S.         15.0         15.0
Office and Other Equipment                       L.S.         10.0         10.0
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, ½ Ton, 4x4                    1            RP 1/        RP 1/
Bicycle                                           7            RP l/        RP 1/
Monitoring and Evaluation Program
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, ½ Ton, 4x4                    2            RP 1/        RP 1/
Bicycle                                          15            RP1/         RP1/
Office Equipment                                 L.S.          2.0          2.0
Subtotal                                                          163.0 2/
Spare Parts (23%)                                                              37.0 2/
Subtotal                                                          200.0 2/
Customs, Duties and Port Costs                                                 30.0 2/
Total - Group VIII                                                230.0 2/
IX.  Grand Total Equipment (Without Price Contingencies)                        10,240.0 2/
1/ Reserved Procurement (See ANNIEX 2, Table 7, Page 6 of 7).
/  Non_reseryed Drocurenent items onl-.



-74-                                             ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 6 of 7
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment and Vehicles for Reserved Procurement
Unit        Total         Scheduled
I.      For Construction                                        Quantity        Cost         Cost        Delivery Date
______-------(US$ '000)------
Water Boser, TEll, 1,200 Gal.                              6            20.0        120.0        9/83
Farm Tractor, w/Trailer, 50 HP                            3              7.5         22.5        9/83
Centrifugal Pump, 1,200 Gal., Diesel                      4             10.0         40.0        9/83
Oil Tankar, TEll, 1,200 Gal.                               6            20.0        120.0        9/83
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4, Model XV.1             14              8.0        112.0        9/83
II.      For O&M of Dams and Irrig. Facilities
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4, Model XV.1             10              8.0         80.0        8/86
III.      For Hudson Water Supply
Transformer, 300 KVA, 11/0.4 KV                            1            20.0         20.0        8/84
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4, Model XV.1              2              8.0         16.0        9/83
IV.      For Strengthening Irrig. Dept.
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4 Model XV.1              15             8.0        120.0        9/83 (13 Nos)
8/86 (2 Nos)
V.      For State Farm - Azin
Farm Tractor, w/Trailer, 50 HP                            2              7.5        15.0        9/83
Power Tiller, w/Diesel Engine                             4              3.0        12.0        9/86
Power Sprayer                                            20              0.1          2.0        9/86
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4, Model XV.1              2             8.0         16.0        9/83
Diesel Truck, 6.5 Ton, Model TE21AZ                       1            14.0         14.0        8/86
Bicycle, Mg Ba Ma                                        12             0.1           1.2       7/86
VI.      For Research, Extension and Monitoring
Farm Tractor w/Trailer, 50 HP                             2              7.5        15.0        9/83
Tipper Truck, Model TE                                    3            14.0         42.0        9/83
X-2000, Mazda Jeep, 1/2 Ton, 4x4, Model XV.1              4              8.0         32.0       9/83
Bicycle, Mg Ba Ma                                        29             0.1           2.9       9/83
Subtotal                                                                         802.6
Spare Parts (20%)                                                                  160.4
Subtotal                                                                         963.0
Price Contingencies (4%)                                                             37.0
Total                                                                          1,000.0



-75-                                  ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 7 of 7
BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Summary of Equipment & Vehicle Requirements
Estimated Cost
Local    Foreign    Total
---- -US$ 000---------
I. Procurement by ICB or Prudent Shopping 1/
Construction Equipment - Kinmundaung                600      3,500     4,100
Construction Equipment - Azin                       670      3,980     4,650
O&M Equipment - Kinmundaung                          15         35         50
O&M Equipment - Azin (Irrigation)                    15         20         35
Mudon Water Supply Equipment- Azin                   50        160        210
Strengthening Irrigation Department                 145        745        890
State Farm Equipment                                 30         45         75
Research, Extension & Monitoring Equipment           35        195        230
Subtotal                               1,560      8,680    10,240
Price Contingencies                                 170        930     1,100
Total                                  1,730      9,610    11,340
II.  Reserved Procurement                              1,000        -        1,000
III.  Total Equipment and Vehicles                      2,730      9,610    12,340
1/ Includes US$1,324,000 of duties, taxes and port charges.



-76-                                   ANNEX 2
Table 8
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(US$ 1000)
Total       1983       1984       1985       1986
---------------- Calendar Years --------------
Kinmundaung
Dam, Res., Camp & Roads                      2,000         550        450        510        490
Irr. & Drainage Facilities                     920          -         280        360        280
Agri. Research & Ext.Facilities                 140         65         65         10         -
Subtotal                                  3,060        615        795         880        770
Engin. & Administration                         570        16-)       160        150        1)0
Physical Contingencies                        _4)          125        14)      _152         13)
Subtotal                                  4,170        895      1,095      1,180       1,000
Price Contingencies                             875         75        180        290        330
Subtotal                                  5,045        970      1,275       1,470      1,330
Equipment and Vehicles                       4,600      4,330         150        -          120
Price Contingencies                             425        360         25        -           40
Subtotal - Kinnundaung                   10,070      5,660      1,450       1,470      1,490
Azin
Dam, Reservoir, Camp and Roads               1,800         295        580        545        380
Irrigation & Drainage Facilities               625        -           220        210        195
Mudon Water Supply Facilities                2,170         585        870        650         65
State Farm Buildings                            300       -           -          100        200
Agric. Research & Extension Facilities           65         30         30          5          -
Subtotal                                  4,960        910      1,700      1,510        840
Engineering & Administration                    870        240        240        230        160
Physical Contingencies                          870        170        290        260        150
Subtotal                                  6,700      1,320      2,230      2,000       1,150
Price Contingencies                           1,360        110        370        500        380
Subtotal                                  8,060      1,430      2,600      2,500       1,530
Equipment & Vehicles                         5,540      4,750         490         30        270
Price Contingencies                            570         390         80         10         90
Subtotal - Azin                          14,170      6,570      3,170      2,540       1 830
Strengthening Implementing Agencies 1/
Technical Assistance                         1,040         410        240        330         60
Training                                        380        180        180         20         -
Equipment & Vehicles                         10l0          770        330         -          -
Subtotal                                  2,520      1,360        750        350          60
Price Contingencies                             340        110        120         90         20
Subtotal - Streng. Imp. Agencies          2,860      1,470        870        440          80
Total                                    27,100     13,7(0      5  , 0     4 4Z)       3 4__
1/ Includes short-term dam specialist (US$20,000 total) and equipment for monitoring
(US$20,000 total).



-77-
ANNEX 2
Table 9
BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Amount
Allocated 1/          % of Expenditures
Category                   US$ M Equivalent           to be Financed
I.  Civil Works                           6.6          50 % of total expenditures
II.  Equipment & Vehicles                  9.7          100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported items.
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for locally ma-
nufactured items, and 75% of
locally procured items.
III.  Consultants and Overseas Training   1.6            100% of expenditures for
consultants and short-term
Dam Specialist, and 100% of
overseas training costs.
IV.  Unallocated                           1.1
Total                     19.0
1/ Including expected price increases.



-78-
ANNEX 2
Table 10
BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ M Equivalent)
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year                     Disbursements                Disbursements
and Semester                      ----US$ M----                ----US$ M----
1983
1
2                                  0.7                          0.7
1984
1                                  2.3                          3.0
2                                  3.1                          6.1
1985
1                                  3.8                          9.9
2                                  3.2                        13.1
1986
1                                  1.6                        14.7
2                                  1.5                        16.2
1987
1                                  1.2                         17.4
2                                  1.0                        18.4
1988
1                                  0.6                        19.0



-79-                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Strengthening of Implementing Agencies
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
I. BACKGROUND
1.1.    During the last few years, operations of the Irrigation Department
(ID) have expanded rapidly. Sanctioned staff positions increased from
about 6,800 in 1973 to 19,500 in 1981 and the number of major projects
under implementation from 8 to 16. The budget has increased nearly
seven-fold during this period and the rapid expansion has created strains
within the organization. A major reorganization has been proposed includ-
ing strengthening of the central divisions, particularly Planning and
Design, which have not expanded commensurately with the expansion of ID's
overall activities.  Strengthening of planning and design capability is a
top priority and GOB has agreed that consultancy services for this purpose
be included in the proposed project under the terms of reference included
in this annex. Technical assistance also is required by the Housing
Department (HD) and the Mudon Township Development Committee (TDC) in the
preparation of the Mudon Water Supply. Consultancy requirements for this
work are also included herein. It is envisaged that the consulting serv-
ices for ID would be provided by an internationally reputable consulting
firm and those for HD and Mudon TDC through recruitment of individual
consultants.
II. Strengthening of ID's Planning and Design Circle
A. Objectives
2.1. In order to strengthen the planning and design capability of
ID, the consultants would provide in-house advisory services in
general planning and training. In addition, as a means of providing
practical training, the consultants would assist the Planning and
Design Circle in carrying out two specific tasks: (a) preparation
of the Second Tank Irrigation Project, and (b) preparation of
detailed designs for one major sluice structure for the proposed
Lower Burma Paddy Development Project, Paddy III.
B. Planning and Training
2.2. Consultants would advise the Superintending Engineer in charge
of Planning and Design Circle and his staff in the following:
(1) detailed scheduling of the ID's resources (staff, equipment,
facilities) to meet the investment program proposed for the
Fourth Four Year Plan and other ID responsibilities;



-80-                              ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
(2) identification of training needs in the light of (1) above, and
after assessing present and future man-power and skill require-
ments;
(3) planning and implementation of training activities including
the 84 man-month overseas training program tentatively
identified in Annex 1, Chart 7 of the Staff Appraisal Report;
(4) any other activities related to planning and design and in need
of strengthening.
C. Second Tank Irrigation Project
2.3. The proposed Tank Irrigation Project is envisaged to be the
first of a series of tank irrigation projects to be considered for
external financing. In the Yin Chaung Basin of Magwe Division, ID
has started preliminary investigations for Ngnamin, Bagone, Yinmale,
Sun and Sadon projects. In Mon state, ID has completed pre-
feasibility study of the Winpanon project and initiated preliminary
investigations for other small dams such as Abit, Kamawet and
Hnipadaw. Although final responsibilities for preparing feasibility
study reports rest with ID, the consultants would provide guidance,
and, to the extent possible make themselves involved with the study
works to prepare a bankable scheme for the Second Tank Irrigation
Project.
2.4. In particular, the consultants would assist ID in the
following :
(1) Project Planning and Investigation.
Overall planning and evaluation of alternatives for selection
and formulation of feasible irrigation, and where applicable,
multipurpose projects in the Yin Chaung Basin and Mon State;
(2) Design and Cost Estimates for Selected Scheme(s).
(i) preparation of feasibility - level designs and cost
estimates suitable for project economic evaluation
and inclusion in project feasibility reports;
(ii) detailed investigations and surveys including foundation
explorations and evaluation, topographic surveys, flood
hydrology and routing studies, water supply and
requirement studies, and reservoir operation
studies;



-81-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
(iii) preparation of final structures design (utilizing
results of above investigations and studies), final
realistic cost estimates, and preparation of tender
documents and working drawings;
(iv) feasibility - level design and cost estimates of
distribution systems and on-farm irrigation and
drainage facilities, including economic
evaluation of alternatives.
(3) Preparation of feasibility/project preparation report for
the selected scheme(s), which should include:
(i) detailed description of project areas;
(ii) detailed description of project features including
final sizing and design criteria, final cost estimates
implementation plans, and personnel and equipment
requirements;
(iii) organization and management including operation and
maintenance;
(iv) production, marketing, farm incomes and cost recovery;
(v) economic analyses of proposed schemes;
(vi) various supporting data provided in the form of
annexes.
D.  Lower Burma Paddy Development III (Paddy III)
2.5.   Paddy III is currently under preparation by ID with
assistance from the World Bank/FAG Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP). The project is located on the opposite bank of
Rangoon, delineated by Twante town at north and Kungyangone
town at south. The project is mainly intended for
projecting the area from floods and salt water intrusion
as well as for providing adequate drainage system from the
inland polderized area of about 250,000 acres (gross). The main
project works include the construction of flood protection
embankments along the polder, providing adequate drainage network
in the area, construction of two major and five minor one way
drainage sluices for evacuation of overland water from different
subdrainage areas, construction of dry season intake sluice, and
village feeder road network. Since the preparatory activities are
well under way, consultancy services required are more precisely



-82-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
defined: two specialists are required to assist in the design
of drainage network and drainage structures;
(1) The Drainage System expert would review the data available,
and the proposals presented in the FAO/CP preparation report.
He would then assist ID to finalise the design of the drainage
system prior to the start of construction. In particular he
would ensure that all tidal records are based on consistent
datums.
(2) The Drainage Structure expert would review the site
investigation data and the drainage regimes at each site for
seven drainage structures. The structures will be 8 ft by 6 ft
box culvert type with tidal flaps on the river side and slide
gates on the country side. In these structures, a 15 ft wide
navigation lock will be provided. The anticipated maximum
hydraulic head over the sluice would be about 16 ft. The
structure will be founded on clay, silty clay, on fine sand
intermixed with clay and silt, typical of deltaic areas.
The expert would assist ID with the design of one major
structure, and would produce a design manual for similar
structures detailing the design steps, essential construction
specifications, operating procedures, bar schedules and
quantities estimate, and construction schedule. He would ensure
that the design of each structure is capable of meeting the
drainage requirements, and that the structures are stable and
have adequate factors of safety under extreme hydraulic condi-
tions which might occur. The stilling basin and downstream
channel configurations would be carefully examined.
E. Composition and Duration of Services
2.6. The consultants would be required from Mid-1983 to mid-1986
and their duty station would be Rangoon. They would report to the
Superintending Engineer of the Planning and Design Circle, Irriga-
tion Department. About 76 man-months of consultancy services would
be required with the following breakdown:



-83-
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
Man-months
General (Planning and Training)
Project Manager (Water Res. Pl. Engineer)                       20
Training Specialist                                              4
Unidentified                                                    10
Subtotal                                                     34
Preparation of Second Tank Irrigation Project
Dam Designer                                                     6
Foundation Engineer (Soil Mechanics)                             6
Irrigation Systems Structure Designer                            5
Soil Scientist/Soil Classifier                                   5
Engineering Geologist                                            4
Agro-economist                                                   6
Subtotal                                                     32
Design Works for Paddy III
Drainage System Specialist                                       4
Drainage Structure Specialist                                    6
Subtotal                                                     10
Total                                                      76
III. Consultancy Services for Mudon Water Supply
A. Water Supply Engineering Specialist
(1) Location   : Rangoon and Mudon in appropriate government
offices;
(2) Duration   : 3 months at end - 1982;
(3) Duties      : Review all detailed designs and tender documents
and advise HD staff on completion of drawings
and documentation.
B. Financial Consultant
(1) Location   : Mudon
(2) Duration   : 2 months at end 1985
(3) Duties      : Assist the Mudon Township Development Committee
in establishing the necessary accounting,
billing and collection systems.



-84-                                         ANNEX 4
Table 1
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Farm Budget and Economic Analysis
Kinnundaung                           Azin
Est. 1990       Est.1990           Est. 1990       Est. 1990
Crop (K/m ton)               Finan. Price    Econ. Price 1/  Finan. Price   Econ. Price 1/
Paddy                               -             1,433  2/         -              1,317 2/
GOB Controlled                    478 3/          -               478 3/           -
Free Market                      837 4/           -               765 4/           -
Cotton (Medium Staple)           4,278 5/         5,862 2/          -                -
Sesame                           4,518            4,686 6/          -                -
Groundnut                        3,960            2,811 8/        6,788 7/         2,716 2/
Sunflower                        4,335            4,686 6/          -                -
Maize                             1,847 8/          924 9/         -                -
Beans/Pulses                     2,200            1,100 9/          -                -
Pomela                              -               -             2,780 10/        1,390 9/
Durian                              -               -             2,670 10/        1,335 9/
Mango                               -               -              1,000 10/         500 9/
Banana                              -               -             1,390 10/          695 9/
Pineapple                           -               -                750 10/         375 9/
Fertilizers
Urea                                480 11/       1,840 2/          773 12/        2,040 2/
TSP                               1,440 11/       2,020 2/        1,250 -7         1,860 2/
MP                                1,200 11/       1,2802/            6002/         1,120 2/
Farmyard Manure for Field            15              12 T3/          35               28 T3/
Crops (Cartload)
Farmyard Manure for Orchard         -               -                 80              64 13/
Crops (Cartload) 14/
Other Inputs (K/m ton)
HYV Paddy Seeds                     720 15/       2,150 16/          720 15/       1,980 16/
Local Paddy Seeds                   920 17/       1,580 18/         842 17/        1,450 18/
Cotton Seed (K/m ton)               920           1,410 2/          -                -
Animal Labor                          8.5             6.8 13/         15.0            12.0 13/
(K/pair/half day)
Human Labor
P,W (K/Manday)                      5.8 19/         4.0 20/         8.5 19/          6.4 20/
W (K/Manday)                     6.8 19/          4.9 20/        11.0 19/          8.4 20/
1/  In constant 1982 currency units.
2/ Details on economic price derivation are provided in Project File, Vol. VII.
3/ K10/basket (46 lbs).
4/ Market prices vary between K15-K20/basket; assume an average of K17.5/basket
for Kinmundaung, and K16.0/basket for Azin.
5/  GOB-controlled procurement price of K7.0/viss (3.6 lbs).
6/  Estimated economic price of shelled groundnuts used as estimate.
7/  Assumed to be the weighted average of government controlled price of K46/
basket (25 lbs)(10%) and market price of K80/basket (90%).
8/  Includes value of sheats.
9/ Local price converted to border Kyats at estimated consumption goods conversion factor of 0.50.
10/ Assumed to be 50% of average market prices in Moulmein:  Pomelo (K5/fruit),
Durian (K5/fruit), Mango (0.5/fruit), Banana (K5/bundle), Pineapple (K3/fruit).
11/ GOB controlled procurement price, including delivery costs.
12/ Assumed to be the weighted average of government controlled price of K360/ton
(67%) and market price of K1600/ton (33%).
13/ Local price converted to border Kyats at estimated standard conversion factor of 0.80.
14/ Mix of manure, bats remain, sesame waste, peat soil, etc.
15/ Gob-controlled price: K15.0/basket.
16/ Assumed to be 50% higher than paddy price
17/ Assumed to be 10% higher than market price.
18/ Assumed to be 10% higher than paddy price.
19/ Weighted average of wage prevailing in slack, intermediate, and peak months of the years.
20/ Assume that financial wages exceed shadow wage rates in the intermediate period (by 40% in
Kinmiundaung, and 2% in Azin), but approximate shadow wage rates in the slack and peak periods.
Economic wages were derived by adjusting weighted shadow wage rates in these periods with the
SCF of 0.8.



-85-                              ANNEX 4
Table 2a
B U RMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget and Rent Estimates
(Kinmundaung)
For 5 Acre Farm (Kyats)
Inflow                                              P             W             W
Paddy 1/                                            846           889         2,749
Cotton                                               -             -          3,850
Sesame                                              271           298         1,694
Groundnut                                            -             -          2,508
Sunflower                                            -             -            650
Maize                                               170           185             -
Beans                                                99        _110          _   -
Total Crop Production 2/                       1,386          1,482        11,444
Off Farm Income                                     517           508           310
Total Inflow                                   1,903          1,990        11,754
Outflow
Crop Production Cost 3/, 4/                         566           607         2,646
Net Farm Family Income                            1,338         1,383         9,108
Per Capital 5/                                      267           277         1,822
Rent
Net Farm Family Income                            1,338         1,383         9,108
Less: Depreciation 6/                                60            60           260
Imputed Value of Family Labor 7/             480           514         2,860
Management and Risk Fee 8/                    82            88          1,320
Land Tax 9/                                   20             20            20
Water Charge  10/                              -             50            50
Off Farm Income                              517           508            310
Implicit Rent                                       178           143         4,288
Project Rent                                         -             -          4,145
1/  Includes quantities for seed, on-farm consumption, and quota.
2/  Based on Annex 1, Table 8.
3/  Assumes as per FAO/CP estimates that farm family members can find
employment for 15% of their free time, at K6.50/md.
4/  Includes cost of bullock, materials, and interest on fixed assets (10% p.a.)
and seasonal credit (12% p.a.).
5/  Assume average family size of 5.
6/ Assume in P, W situation, fixed assets value is K300; in W situation, assume
it is K1300 due to purchase of a sprayer and other implements. Expected life
of assets: 5 years with no salvage value.
7/  Imputed wage rate of family labor in P, W assumed to be K4/md;
in W, assumed_to be K6.50/md.
8/  Assume in P, W "fee" is 10% of net farm income; in W, it rises to 15% of
net farm income on account of increases in cultivation intensity.
9/  Land tax varies from K3 to K6/ac.  Assume average of K4/ac.
10/ As per the Water and Irrigation Tax Law of March 1982 (Kl0/ac per year).



-86-
ANNEX 4
Table 2b
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Paddy Lands Farm Budget and Rent Estimates
(Azin)
For 5 Acre Farm (Kyats)
P             W             w
Inflow
Paddy Quota 1/                                  397            446         1,929
Surplus Paddy 2/                              2,215         2,459          7,607
Total Crop Production 3/                    2,616         2,905         9,536
Off Farm Income 4/                            2,080         2,080          1,248
Total Inflow                                4,692         4,985        10,784
Outflow
Hired-in Labor 5/                                -             -             336
Other Crop Production Costs 6/                1,029         1,058          3,657
Net Farm Family Income                          3,663          3,927         7,127
Per Capita 7/                                   733           785          1,425
Rent
Net Farm Family Income                        3,663         3,927          7,127
Less: Depreciation 8/                            80             80            88
Imputed Value of Family Labor 9/    1,015             1,059         3,401
Management and Risk Fee 10/               158           184           882
Land Tax 11/                               25            25            25
Water Charge 12/                            -            50            50
Off-farm Income                        2,080          2,080         1,248
Implicit Farm Rent                              305           449          1,433
Project Rent                                     -              -            984
1/ Assumed to be 1/3 of quantity remaining after allowing 1.25 m tons for on-
farm consumption and seed requirements.
2/ Includes 1.25 m tons valued at market price.
3/ Based on Annex 1, Table 8.
4/ Assume in P, W, off-farm (off-season) work available for 5 months
(20 days per month), and in W, for 3 months at K8 per manday.
5/ Assume in W, 5% of total labor requirement hired at peak wage rate
of K15 per manday.
6/ Includes cost of bullock, materials, interest on fixed assets (10% p.a.)
and seasonal credit (12% p.a.).
7/  Assume family size of 5 members.
8/ Assume in P, W, fixed assets value is K400; in W, it is increased by 10%
to K440. Expected life of assets: 5 years with no salvage value.
9/ In P, W, family labor value imputed at K7 per manday; in W, it is imputed
at K8 per manday.
10/ Assume in P, W, "fee" is 10% of net farm income; in W, it rises to 15% on
account of increased cropping intensities.
11/ Land tax varies from K3 to K6/ac. Assume average of K5/ac.
12/ As per the Water and Irrigation Tax Law of March 1982 (KIO/ac per year).



-07-
ANNEX  4
Table 2c
TANK IRRI6ATION PJECT
AZIN: PILOT ORCHARD SDEE
Fm nUBSE
Future                                                                    4 AC FARN
Futuret
--Without --- -------------------------------------- ------- --------- Future With -----------------
Project Year                             1-4       5        6        7       8        9      10       11       12      13       14       15      16       17      18       19       20   21-30       PV  12/
---- ---- ---- --                              _ -  -   - - - - - - - - - - --- -   - -- - -- --- -- -- -- - -   ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- -    -   -   -  --------- -  -_ 
IWLIW
FPRr PRODUCTION    1/                          -    1030   10692   12845   14883   16718   17967   18203   23694   31505   41443   50563   58564   65445   70245   73i26   75046   76006                211159
OFF-FARM IEWSE    2/                            -    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200    1200                   7509
TOTAL INFL0W                                 -    2230   11892   14045   16083   17918   19167   19403   24894   32705   42643   51763   59764   66"45   71445   74326   76246   77206                 218668
OUTFLOW
99R0D1CTION COSTS                              -   12383   10447   11362   12276    9052    8395    8092    7044    7595    7715    7775    7835    7095    7895    7895    7895    7095                  58010
LAND TAX T  /                                          4 00     40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40          250
WATER CHARGE  4/                               -       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40          250
- --   - -   ---   - ---  - ----    - ----  - - - -   ------    - - - -   ------- -   - -- --  - ---- -   -- - -   ---- -   -- - -   - ---   - - --  - - - - - - - -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                -   12463   10527   11442   12356    9132    8475    8172    7924    7675    7795    7855    7915    7975    7975    7975    7975    7975                  58511
N.9F00  IL8.B.FIN.                          2450  -10232    1365    2603    3727    8785   10692   11230   16970   25030   34847   43900   51849   58670   63470   66351   68271   69231                167923
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPT  5/                               -   11000    5000         -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -        9653
DEBT SERVICE  6/                               -        -       -        -       -    5293    4993    4700    4441    4191    3955            -       -        -        -       -        -        -        9490
N.FAR0  INC.A.FIN.         2450  7/         2450     768    6365    2603    3727    3492    5699    6522   12529   20039   3OB92   439O8   51849   58670   63470   66351   6B271   69231                168086
INCR FARM INC3 MEI1-W)                         -   -1682    3915       153    1277    1042    3249    4072   10079   18389   28442   4145B   49399   56220   61020   63901   65821   66781              144990
PER CAPIT0       8/                            -    -336      783       31     255      208     650      814    2016    3678    5688    8292    9880   11244   12204   12700   13164   13356             28998
PROJECT RENT
N.INC.A.FIN.B.TWX  9/                      2450      848    6445    2683    3807    3572    5779    6602   12609   20919   30972   43908   51929   58750   63550   66431   68351   69311                168586
LESS:IMP.'0L. FAM.LABOR  10/                   -     883      700     802      903      569     514      490     473      456      504     528      552      576     576      576     576      576         3973
NOT I RISK FEE II/                       -      200     200      445     782    2300    2872    3033    4755    7172   10118   12836   15219   17265   18705   19569   20145   20433                48255
L4ND TAX   3/                            -       40      40       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40       40          250
WATER CHARGE  4/                         -       40      40       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40      40       40       40      40       40       40          250
_ - -     - - - -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - ---  - ----- -   - - - -  - - - -     -- - -   - - - --- -   --- - - -- - -
IMPLICIT RENT                              2450    -315    5465    1357    2043        623    2313    2999    7301   13210   20270   30544   36078   40829   44189   46205   47550   48222             115858
PROECT RENT                                   -   -2765    3015   -1093    -407   -1827    -137         549    4851   10760   17820   28094   33620   38379   41739   43755   45100   45772              92762
1/   Reference  Project File, Vol. IX.
2/   Assume off-farm  (off-season)  work  available  for  3 months  (20  days  per month)  at KR   per man-day  for average  2.6  working  members per  family.
3/ Land tax for garden lands varies from K3.5 to K12 per ac. Assumed at KIO per acre.
4/   KIO  per acre  of cultivated  land.
5/   About 80%  of initial  two  year  cost of fence, seedlings,  fertilizers  and  other materials  and  farm  implements.
6/   Assume  10 year  loan  at  14%  p.a.  interest.   Principals  and  interest  are  to  be  repaid  in  equal annual payments  (K6680)  after  3 years  of
grace period. Amounts shown are deflated assuming annual inflation of 6%.
7/   Assumed  at about 40%  (K490  in  1982  prices)  of national average  per  capita  income  times  the  number of average  family  members  (five).
8/   Assume  five member family.
9/   Net income  after  financing  but before  Benefit Taxes.
10/   Wage rates  assumed  at KR   per man-day.
11/   Assumed  to  be  30%  of the  net  farm  output reflecting  high  risk  of orchard  operation.
12/   occ  =  10%.



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
AZIN SUBPROJECT ORCHARD COMPONENT
PLANTED AREA AND PRODUCTION
250 AC STATE FARM
(K1,000)
Project Year                1-4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15      16       17       18       19   20-30
PLANTED AREA(AC)
MAIN CROPS 1/
POMELO                            -    60.0    90.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
DURIAN                            -    45.0    67.5    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
MANGO                             -    45.0    67.5    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75,0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
INTER-CROPS                                                                                                                                                       .
PINEAPPLE                         -    30.0    34.8    29.9    22.8    20.5           8.0      2.0        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
BANANA                            -    19.8    24.9    22.8    20.5    20.0           8.0      2.0        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
GROUNDNUT                         -    15.0    17.4    15.0    11.4    10.3           4.0      1.0        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
TOT CROPPED AREA                -   214.8   302.1   317.7   304.7   300.8   270.0   255.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0
PRODUCTION(TONS)
MAIN CROPS   1/
POMELO                            -        -        -        -        -        -   108.0   270.0   450.0   630.0   810.0   882.G   900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0
DURIAN                            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -    67.5   168.8   281,2   393.7   506.3   551.3   562.5
MANGO                                  -        -            -        -        -    90.0   225.0   375.0   525.0   675.0   735.0   750.0   750.0   750.0   750.0   750.0
INTER-CROPS
PINEAPPLE                         -        -   600.0   696.0   598.0   456.0   410.0   160.0    40.0               -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
BANANA                            -        -   316.8   398.4   364.8   328.0   320.0   128.0    32.0               -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       X 
GROUNDNUT                         -    14.3    16.5    14.2    10.8          9.7      3.8      1.0        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -                      x
1/ Reference   ANNEX  1,  Table  8.



-09 -
ANNEX 4
BRMRA                                                                                                 Table  2d
Page 2
TAW  IRRIGATION PROJECT
AZINI PILOT ORCHARD SCHEME
PROENLTION BENEFITS AND COSTS
250 AC STATE FARM
(KI 000)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project Year                  1-2        3        4        5                  7        0         9       10       11       12        13       14       15        16       17       18       19  20-30         PV-1
DROSS PRODUCTION VALUE
MAIN CROPS 2/
PONLO                              -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -      300      750    1250       1750    2250    2450    2500    2500          2500    2500       2500       7015
IHIRIAK                                                                                                      -         -        -        -      180      450       750     1050     1350     1470      1500       2603
MANGO                              -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -       90      225       375      525      675      735       750      750      750      750       750       2104
SUBTOTAL                         -        -         -       -         -        -        -         -      390      975     1625    2275    3105    3635         4000     4300      4600     4720     4750      1 17 22
INTER-CROPs   2/
PINEAPPLE                          -         -        -        -      450      522      449       342      308      120        30        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -       1046
BANANA                             -        -         -        -      440      554      507       456      445      170        44        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -       121 1
DROONDAMIT                         -                           7      112       96        73       66       26         6        -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -247
SUBTOOTAL                        -        -        -       97     1002    0172       0029      064       770      304       74         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -       2504
TOTAL DRSS PROD VALUE              -        -         -       97     1002     1172     1029       064    0160      0279     1700      2275     3105    3635      4000      4300     4600    4720      4750       04226
PRODUCTION COSTS
MAIN CROPS 2,'
PDMELO                             -         -        -      205      291      270      248       240      253      255       256      256      256      256      256       256      256      256       256       1 63 7
IARIAN                             -         -        -      200      103      150       138      138      138      138       030      130      149      155       157      157      157       157      157         9800
MANGO-                                       -        -      163      125       93        73       73       70       80        B   81        81  01        1        01       01       01        81       81         500
SUBTOTAL                         -        -        -      647      599       521      459      459       469      473      475      475       486      492      493      493       493      493      493        3196
INTER-CROPS   2 I
------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
PINEAPPLE                          -        -         -      232      174      112        67       60       23        0         -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -                    9 67
BANAA-                                                        44       41       33       217       26       10         3        -96 -                                -        -                    
OROODNUT                           -        -         -       13       15       13        10        9        3         I        -33 -                                -        -                    
SUBTOTAL                         -        -        -      288      230       157      103        95       37        9        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -          496
OMIT. ESTAB, COSTS   3/            -     1156    2696          -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        27 10
ADMIN, IDGEA, EOP    4/            -       20        30       58       80      08 0O 00          1000      300      300       100      100      1010     100       386      100      300      300       300         6 19
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS             -    1176    2726         906      909      778      662       654      606      502      575       575      506      592      593       593      593      593       593        702 1
NET FARM INKDME                    -   -1176   -2726    -809           93      394      367       210      562      697      11-25    1700    2519      3044    3407    3707        40,07    4127     4157         7 206
I/ Discount rate of 10%.
2f/ Reference Annex 4, Table 2d.
3/ Reference Annex 2, Tablea 3 and 7.
4~/ Includes only the coat of management and other general expenaes. Labor costa are included in production cost of each crop.



-90-                          ANNEX 4
Table 3
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Values of Project Incremental Cost Recovery 1/
Kinmundaung Subproject
Cost                                 Recoveries       Recovery Rate
Case I   Case II                        Case I   Case II  Case I   Case II
----Kyats M ----                        -----Kyats M----
Capital Costs         38.64    38.64   Paddy Procurement    20.47    22.62
Recurrent O&M and                       Cotton Procurement   13.62    21.13
Replacement          2.69     2.69   Land Taxes              0.02      0.02
Incremental Input      3.92     5.41   Water Charge            0.12      0.12
Total             45.25    46.74        Total             21.32    32.99      47%       71%
Azin Subproject
Cost                                  Recoveries      Recovery Rate
Case I   Case II                        Case I   Case II  Case I   Case II
-----Kyats M----                             Kyats M----
Capital Costs         34.73    34.73   Paddy Procurement    25.41    28.90
Recurrent O&M and
Replacement          2.40     2.40   Land Taxes              0.01      0.01
Incremental Input      4.71     6.01   Water Charge            0.07      0.07
Total            41.84    43.14         Total             15.35    18.93      37%      44%
1/ OCC = 10%.



BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Summary of Economic Benefit and Cost Streams and ERRs 1/
(K1,000)
Kinmundaung                              Azin                                        Project Total
Water
Project                              Irrigation       Supply       Total         Total                                  Net
Year         Benefit        Cost       Benefit      Benefit      Benefit        Cost       Benefit        Cost       Benefit
1                0       31103             0            0            0        36617            0        67720       -67720
2                0         7249            0            0            0        15694            0        22943       -22943
3                0        6965             0            0            0        11646            0        18611       -18611
4                0       -98232/           0            0            0        -9868 2/         0       -19691 2/    19691
5            5345          2600         3493          640         4133         4414         9478         7014         2464
6            7107          3092         5753         2758         8511         4592        15617         7683         7934
7            8455          3344         6788         3026         9814         5070        18269         8414         9855
8           10031          3583         7288         3359        10647         5176        20677         8758        11919
9           11561          3799         7373         3713        11086         4756        22647         8555        14092
10           13036         3877         7979         4110        12089         4594        25125         8471        16654
11          13453          3938         8581         4422        13003         4518        26456         8456        18000
12          13789          5744         9901         4736        14637         6810        28426        12554        15872
13          14144         4053        11665          5050        16715         4438        30859         8490        22369
14          14564         4058        13725          5362        19087         4438        33652         8496        25156
15          14607         4058         15122         5676        20798         4370        35405         8428        26976
16          14607         4058         16264         5990        22254         4370        36861         8428        28433
17          14607         4058        17111          6302        23413         4370        38020         8428        29591
18          14607         4058        17621          6618        24239         4370        38846         8428        30417
19          14607          4058       17897          7256        25153         4370        39760         8428        31332
20          14607         4058        18056          7256       25312          4370        39919         8428        31491
21          14607         5805        18128          7256        25384         6705        39991        12510        27481
22-29       14607         4058        18128          7256        25384         4370        39991         8428        31563
30          14607         5805        18128          7256_       25384         6705        39991        12510        27481
ERR - 13.6%                            ERR = 12.1%                                  ERR = 12.8%
1/ Detailed Economic Cash Flow Tables for above are available in Project File, Vol. IX.
2/  Includes residual value of construction equipment.
(D4



-92-
ANNEX 4
Table 5
BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Switching Values
% of Total P.W.
Benefit or
Cost Stream    % of Total        Switching  Values (Z) 1/
(10% p.a.)      Sown Area   (8% p.a.) (10% p.a.)  (12% p.a.)
I. KINMUNDAUNG
A.  Incremental Benefits
1.  Paddy                                      39             40          -96         -66          -31
2.  Cotton                                     31             20          -99         -69          -33
3.  Other Crops                                30             20         -101         -69          -32
Total Benefits (in %)                     100            100          -33        -23          -11
(in KM or ac)         (K73.4 M)      (5,000 ac)
B. Incremental Costs
1. Non-recurrent Costs
(a)  Civil Works                          24                        +226        +125          +48
(b)  Construction & O&M Equipment         25                        +254        +130          +47
(c)  Other                                14                        +450        +247          +94
Subtotal                             63                         +95         +51          +19
2. Recurrent Costs
(a)  O&M Equipment Replacement              3                           *       +926         +438
(b)  Agric. Production Cost               34                        +110         +75          +35
Subtotal                             .7                        +102         +69          +32
3. Total Costs
(in %)                                   100                         +49         +29          +12
(in Klt)                              (K56.8 '1)
It.  AZIN (Agriculture)
A.  Incremental Benefits
1.  Paddy                                      59             70          -62         -33           -2
2.  Orchard and Vegetables                     41             30          -54         -31           -2
Total Benefits (in %)                     100            100          -29         -16          -1
(in K4 or ac)         (K67.5 M)      (2,850 ac)
B. Incremental Costs
1. Non-recurrent Costs
(a)  Civil Works                          19                        +226         +99           +5
(b)  Construction & O&M Equipment         25                        +209         +85           +4
(c)  Other                                13                        +429        +186          +10
Subtotal                             57                         +87         +37           +2
2. Recurrent Costs
(a)  O&M and Equipment Replacement         2                            *       +668          +44
(b)  Agricultural Production Cost         41                         +81         +43           +3
Subtotal                             43                         +76         +40           +3
C. Total Costs
(in %)                              100                         +41         +19           +1
(in KM)                          (K56.7 M)
III. AZIN (Sdudon Water Supply)
A.  Incremental Benefits
(in %)                              100                         -40         -24           -6
(in KM)                          (K28.2 M)
B.  Incremental Costs
1.  Mudon W.S. Share of Dam Cost               18           _383         +383        +177          +32
2.  Treatment                                  18                        +368        +175          +33
3.  Distribution                               30                        +227       +107          +20
4.  Other                                      22                        +311        +147          +28
5.  Recurrent Costs                            12                        +428       +249           +57
C. Total Costs
(in %)                              100                         +65         +32           +6
(in KM)                          (K21.4 M)
1/  Switching Value is the percentage change in the specified stream (Benefit or Cost) that reduces
the net present value of the project to zero at a specified discount rate.
*   Estimated benefits decrease by more than 1000%, or estimated cost increase by more than 1000%.



ANNEX 5
-91-
Table 1
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
MUDON TOWN WATER SUPPLY
Proforma Income Statements
(in K million unless otherwise indicated)
Fiscal Years Ending March 31                           1987           1988            1989           1990            1991           1992
(starting 1/1/87)
Total Population (Increase of 2.2% per year)           45,265         46,260          47,280         48,320          49,380         50,470
Served Population
- by houseconnections                                 9,050         10,040          11,150         12,370          13,730         15,140
- by standposts                                      24,900         25,450          26,000         26,580          27,160         27,760
Percentage of Total Population Served                      75%             77%            79%             81%            83%             85%
Specific Water Production (lcd)
- houseconnections                                      135            140             145             150            155             160
- standposts                                             70              70             70              70             70              70
Unaccounted-for Water (lcd)
- houseconnections                                       30(22%)         33(24%)        33(23%)         33(22%)        33(22%)         33(20%)
- standposts                                             20(29%)         19(27%)        18(26%)         17(24%)        16(23%)         15(21%)
Specific Water Consumption (lcd)
- houseconnections                                      105            107             112             117            122            127
- standposts                                             50              51             52              53             54              55
Total Water Production (Mm )
- houseconnections                                   0.112          0.513           0.590          0.677           0.777          0.884
- standposts                                         0.159          0.650           0.664          0.679           0.694          0.709
Total Water Production (annual)                      0.271          1.163           1.254          1.356           1.456          1.593
Total Unaccounted-for Water (Mm )
- houseconnections                                   0.025          0.121           0.135          0.149           0.166          0.182
- standposts                                         0.045          0.176           0.171          0.165           0.159          0.152
Total Unaccounted-for Watsr (annual)                 0.070          0.297           0.306          0.314           0.325          0.334
Total Water Consumption (Mm )
- houseconr.ections                                  0.087          0.392           0.455          0.528           0.611          0.702
- standposts                                         0.114          0.474           0.493          0.514           0.535          0.557
Total Water Consumption (annual)                    0.201           0.866          0.948           1.042           1.146          1.259
Average Revenues per m  (K)
- houseconnections                                   1.36           1.36            1.86           1.06            1.86           ;.d6
- standposts                                         0.59           0.59            0.59           0.59          _0.59            0.59
Total                                                1.17           1.17            1.19           1.23            1.26           1.30
Operating Revenues
Water Revenues from Houseconnections                 0.162          0.731           0.846          0.982           1.136          1.306
Water Revenues from Standposts                        0.067         0.279           0.290          0.303           0.316          0.329
Total Operating Revenues                              0.229          1.010           1.136          1.285           1.452          1.635
Operating Expenses
Operation, Maintenance and Administration            0.045          0.279           0.296          0.319           0.340          0.371
Water Charges to Irrigation Department 1/            0.009          0.038           0.042          0.046           0.051          0.056
Depreciation                                         0.173          0.693           0.699          0.720           0.730          0.750
Total Operating Expenses                              0.227          1.010           1.037          1.085           1.121          1.177
Operating Income                                       0.002             -            0.099          0.200           0.331          0.458
Interest                                               -               -              -               -              -               -
Profit                                                _0.002          1.010           0.099           0.200          0.331           0.458
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets in Operatior.         -               -            0.3%           0.7%            1.2%            1.6%
1/ Part of operating costs.



-94-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
BURMA
Tank Irrigation Project
Mudon Town Water Supply
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Forecasts
General
1.      At present, Mudon Town does not have any public drinking water supply.
The proposed project will introduce for the first time piped water in the
town. Consequently, tariffs, revenues and operating costs of the project
had to be estimated as of price basis FY88 and thereafter. Unless otherwise
stated, an escalation factor of 5% p.a. has been assumed in arriving at the
future price levels.
Revenues
2.      The revenues from sales of water are a function of the estimated family
income in Mudon. At 1982 price levels, family incomes range from K2,500 per
year. Data on the absolute poverty levels in Burma have not been updated since
1978; however, it can be reasonably assumed that the absolute poverty line in
1982 is not higher than Kl,000 p.a. Consequently, a "life line" tariff has
not been taken into account.
3.      To arrive at the annual revenues,    the following assumptions have
been made (FY88 price level):
(a)  Standposts:  The payments for water through standposts would
be made at a level of 1.7% of the lowest reported family
income (K3,350 per year. K2,500 per year in 1982 escalated
at 5% p.a. up to FY88.  No escalation thereafter).3 This
assumption would result in a tariff of KO.59 per m (US cents
8.2) and an annual family outlay of K56.37 (KlO.25/capita/year); and
(b)  House Connections:  The tariff for house connections would
represent 4% of the median family income of the upper 50%
of the reported income scale in Mudon (K9,400 per year. K7,000
per year in FY82 escalated at 5% p.a. up to FY88. No escalation
thereafter). This assumption would result in a tariff of K1.86
per m (US cents 26) and an annual family outlay of K379.60
(K69.00/capita/year).
4.      Discounted to FY82 levels the proposed tariffs are as follows:
(a)  Standposts:  KO.44 per m3 (US cents 6.1).  This is equivalent
to an annual family outlay of K43.44 (K8.19/capita/year); and



-95-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
(b)  House Connections:  K1.50 per m  (US cents 21).  This is
equivalent to an annual family outlay of K310.80 (K58.60/
capital/year).
Operation, Maintenance and Administration
5.      Cost of Personnel.  The following assumptions have been made
Annual Salary 1/
One Sub-assistant Engineer                              K 5,580 2/
One Filter Operator Grade 1                             K 4,200 2/
One Filter Operator Grade 2                             K 3,120 2/
Two Filter Operators Grade 3                            K 4,500 2/
Two Helpers                                             K 4,212 2/
Three Pump Operators                                    K 9,360 2/
Two Helper-Operators                                    K 4,500 2/
One Water Tax Collector                                 K 3,126 2/
One Meter Reader/Collector                              K 3,126 2/
One Helper (Collector)                                  K 2,106 2/
One Accountant                                          K 4,500 2/
One Bookkeeping Clerk                                   K 3,000 2/
One Watchment                                           K 2,106 2/
K53,435
6.      Electric Power.  It is estimated that 255,500 kWh p.a. will be
required for pumping of the average flow of drinking water plus other very
minor requirements. A tariff of KO.34/kWh has been assumed which represents
about twice the present tariff level.
7.      Water Charges to Irrigation Department.  At present, these charges
amount to KO.20 per 1,000 Imp. gal. of water produced. This rate has not
changed in a long time and it has, therefore, been assumed that it would
remain unchanged during the forecast period. The payments are for maintenance
work of the Azin dam to be carried out by the Irrigation Department.
1/ Price Basis FY82.
2/ In accordance with feasibility study February 1982.
3/ Appraisal mission additional estimate.



--96-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Depreciation
9.      The following depreciation rates have been used:
Dam (portion allocated to
drinking water supply)         1.25% p.a.
Investments for Distribution
Water Treatment, etc.           2.50% p.a..



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Construction Organization
Project lorplententarioo Committee
Deputy Monster Ministry of Aorrcirt-re and Fret-, Chairmen
Mem.rnoer
(1) Direc-orOeneral            (Planninq and SteeIstics Dapar-menfl
(21  Director General         Dlrriga-ion Geperemenel
(32  Manoging Director         lAgrirattarel Corporat.on. Intigarion Depermens
(41  Dir--tot General         lAgricultural Machanr -Dtioo Gspar-msnt                                    Rangoon
(hI  Director General         (Lend fenorda and Ser.lerrnt Decar-mantl
(61  Director Gental           (General Alfairs Gepar-nenel
(71  D-rtotor General         lHooa-ng Depad mennProeo Directr ID El                                                                     Dealt  .c      E I
(81 Mna-ingGr D-o0r            lCooetroctianCotporee..n)                                              Tank,          I                     A-cunOfficer,
(RI Repaseneetice              (Minisry of Planning nd F-cl                                        Design and Constroo                     2 Clerks TOpi-e
I(ID Praisce Dire tor          Taok Irrigation Pruiene                                                     Rando on                         3 ehera
Admin, svr0 "Of fi-er                                                                                                            O                                                                                        Ad---erigaontuOffcto
H,,a, A-cu-nan                                                                                                                                                                                                            H Head A-cunl-n
2  A.Prn A         esisnani Drillera.s (_ d ill     Fineg   oi (E  ec     IA P I            Mcns        er (E E I I                                                                                                       2 Asn e dl en&  A Mechanics   p
1t C o   ft Ce k I  onmend Eung                            ginee                                                                                                                                                          1 H&C, DoloG
3Clerks/T Pst                                                                                                                                                                                                            3 Cl,,,kIrfyp.-t
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ OaiporoOlcrfE 6ter                                   MiSOtitr                        _______________
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spotn Stl                                                                                                                                 hyiorn Opraio
.f'Design U                       Grol1gy UWork CuperyiUorUIDAPI                                    Mechanical Eg ne A               Guppocg D   ealt                                                      12 Wr Gkproor iSA(                         Mecha Engil UM  PI
Chie0 D-sgn Eng,n-e (A E E I      2 G..ogss (A.E G )                  Ch,ed Consr---i  Eng-.,e           M--.-nnc Worksop                     Ch,,f D-sgn En,n,-e (A F E)       2 G-1.osnn, (A E G I                Ch..f C-ns1-c1- Eng-,,e (A E E I     M-1--r.nc W.rklh.p
D.. DesI.e- (A E I                4 Ass;I-tn  elos  (S A E G I        (A,EL I                            M.ch- ... I Enq,n-y (A M E I         Dam D-s9-e (A E I                 4 A_sstn  -eoI.' - (S A F G I    F,,ld Eng,r-  - Dams (A E I               M-hr.hncl Erg-., (A M E I
SlrucoureD-spgn (A E I   3D, DrI... (Gd I)                   F,.ld Engin-el Dam2  (A E o i  D4 Mu rhonr7 o  E uigpma_                                                  3 Drpll-t e  (Getri  I) Jr E e I0           ne erreg Gu:tosors  RA IE0 Rea,s,   upe
sista  Drmn  (A2 I               Assistant-  I  (Gd I)                       Engineer i 0cl   (A            rhons                         I & D Syrfse D20Asnis (A E                                                      n 3 A--nl  (G    11)  FEnd E gnineer I & D (A Eu )  |8 Mhr--0  HIp-or
Oua        fyCnrIDficer (A E )I 2 G-I-er                        Fd Enge I     I & D (A E )          8 G,--os                             W S Des,gn- (A E )                  Grotl                            FnIld E.g,n-e   T W S (A E )         |8 G-...rs| 
2 M-,e Op-er,tr                                                                                            O-allty C-ntrol Off-,e (A E I      6 M,e   Prvr                     
Sup00""n" S`ff                                                        Supp.rt,ng SIasf                   Eq.ip-e  OP-rT "                                                     I                                     S.   .oetng SIaff                      E-up-en, 0-al-
f12 Jr Engier.- IS A E I                                              10 Wqrk S.p-,-,or (S A F I         M,,ch.ni,al Eng,n... (A M E.)       SuPp.or1mg Slaff                                                       12 Wo.rk S.P.1--or (S.A.E.)                       E Mehaic , n-i7  (A M E I 
6  rf"se                                                           2E 9--nerng Sreos                  70 Heavy Eq,,,p-an Op-raq-          )5Jr Engin.arn "S A Er  )                                              20 E,,n    -,ein  S_r yors             100 H-av  E-upmnn    prao 
6 Assjstant Drattsmen                              ~~~~~~~~~20 Ass,-tn, Engmeerlng    20  rv1  s D:h,.,smen                                                                                      20 A,.,,n 'Engm ,elnq S.-vy-r            30 Driver:
12 Tracers                                                               Sur-ey-s                       20D Others                            0 Aareranr Draftsmen                                                 2P Gu,rep Aides (W S)                   20 Others
6 Qu lltnsp--or (S A E I                                             20 S,,-,y A,d.,                                                         12 T""er                                                              10 O'h_r
f 0 b Othr    -i                                                      10 O,h-r                                                                6  ab Tech--,an (S A EI
101  Other
World Penk   23640
reDo



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
IP,oject 0 & M Organization)
Dilector Genala ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        i-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   p ; ...<L;X  
lin- *- i11    ri     11 Makiaitiz           MynenizzligaineaxexRagol g19                                                 Tl.1u-.  U.                  m .Molnbn         Hnaa                 Mrn
-..pE,gi. i,                                                                    A,lim-A                                                                                                                                                   <
sTl                                                   T           o&                                                                                                                                              hIi
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n    (' i .                                                                                                              ...     I' .        ==                                                                          -
..-      o" ...I                                                                                                         I                                                                                             Ii
OotgoOo  0000000  00,0000  LOot, Bottl   Mejktda                 tOl  t3OO                                                                                                                                     O A,,                               0
|     ,oobqer    6  i     t i   0;ot-  160  |    oeMooo,o |*00-                                                                       OOettOt A00,0    D   ManOnac;W          | Lao
0 -   23041



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization Structure for Extension, Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Agricu l  rrMaging DM atgr
|Agr-clt.re Corporation, R..q..n
V.llagn Iraur Managers     l 31n.p,, |nr  f s 2                                           V g  Tc M a g
A Ap.ld Reasarch                         Ma agme-t and                                E.teso                            and Mvlsrbumin                              G  arips                                 tnn )
L-     _     _     __       _ -  -  -  -  -  -  -  ----                                                                                                                                                                              -J
Maae  Dlec-r Ma           O        p tar |t          S4tl                                                                   M a Head                   Statn  Manag                       Maae
Manag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ter Supuroet Sxtaffi    I_ _f                                                                              Sablt    H                 eead__ rlch Ferrer!o Ma_ onagep
Research Farm!                 Matte                                                                                                                                              Matter                   Trainin  Cente                      Research Farm!
TrainingAslsan Centerl Specialist                                                                                                                                       Ssecalnt                                                        ranig  ene
121  .                                                                                                                                             141(Padyond   hea(Ochad Caps
p                                        U nq H-d                                                                                                   p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ildCut
DpyM ager  I                                                                  -1-StatejFarm                                                                                                    Deputy Manager 2            11       D        M               I T
Vl  IT Managers   I 2l1naq.,                                                                                                                                                                       V        Ta  Manger    I 12          Village tra Mcn (geageM   I d1
Village Managersag  Maagr 421                                                                                                         Deputy Managers         I(19VlaeMngrs)4                                                         ilg ManagersI6
Mngr                      _         uec       __Other  Suppuart Staff         (14Vlag   rc   angr  1                                                                        Other Support Staff                                    120 4)ter Suppart _t_t               115tc1ar/Maae
r sInill r.rntel   eimc a s1                                                                                                                                           Marver                  (Padd,y.nd.ung)  and   _T r-t ong net'  (A-
RaV                                        Maagre
Village~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Awn T-ract                                                                                                     A-m.ayer   (T)V.l.   TatMaaes    )shl   lrc Mngrs (3
Vlilage~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" ' 2aagr                                                                                                    Man... Mngr                 2                               llq    angl                )        llq    alaes(6
Othel~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~M~ Supr               Tr-ft M(20)         3llg JTract Offiqe- (2 3)                                                                                                Othe 41pr  tf            (0           te          tSaf        (5
-ger  ,,,t   fl:'g: M.nage,s          (21                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~V,I:ag'e Manag-r  9( 6)ltM..                                                                      M    g,
Other Support Staffs    (18)
8,cz



BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Ministry of Home and              Ministry of Agricultuire and Forests                                                                     Ministy o    nstruX
General Affairs Department (GAD)                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Housing Department (HD)  Constructio_n Corporation (CC)
General Affairs Department (GAD)             Irrigation Department (ID)                                                       Urhan Water Supply and              Water and Sanitation
-  Coordination and General              _
Support in Administrative                Coordination and General                                                       anitation Division (UWSSD)         Division (WSD)
and Financial Affairs for                Support in Admniristrative
Operation                                and Financial Affairs during
-  Policy Development                       Construction Period                   Project Implementation CommitteOl
Township Develop ment Committees   |                                                   -  Planning and Studies              -  Detailed Design
i_.  I    _                                        -  Engineering Design                -  Construction
MUDON                                                   Supervision                          Training of Operators
Township Development Committee (TDC)                                 -  Monitoring                           and Artisans
Operation and Maintenance
Existing Key Stuff                   Proposed New Staff
(for Water Supply Operations)                                                                                        r'td
Executive Office            I            Filter Plant Operators      4
Sub-Assistant Engineer      1            Pump Operators              3
-  Township Accountanit        1         -  Installation and Maintenance
-- Township Health Officer     I            Technicians                  4
Water Tax Collectors        2
aI See Annex 6, Chart 1
World Bank-23859



-101-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
I. REPORTS
1.01 FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program: "Burma, Tank Irrigation Project,
Supplement to Irrigation Department Reports on Kinmundaung and
Azin Subprojects"', August 1981.
1.02 Irrigation Department, "Report on the Feasibility Study of the
Kinmundaung Reservoir Project, Vol. I (Main Text) and Vol. II
(Drawings)", November 1981.
1.03 Irrigation Department, "Revised Flood Design of Kinmundaung",
February 1982.
1.04 Irrigation Department, "The Kinmundaung Dam Project, Agro-Economic
Data", November 1981.
1.05 Irrigation Department, "Hydrology Report on Kinmundaung Dam Project",
March 1981.
1.06  Irrigation Department, "Geology Report on Kinmundaung Dam Project",
March 1981.
1.07 Irrigation Department, "Feasibility Report on The Azin Dam Irriga-
tion Project", November 1981.
1.08 Irrigation Department, "Azin Dam Project, Feasibility Report
(Geology)", November 1981.
1.09 Irrigation Department, "Report on Soils and Land Classification of
the Azin Dam Project (for orchard land)", December 1981.
1.10 Agricultural Corporation, "Marketing and Storage Study for Orchard
Crops (The Azin Dam Project)", April 1982.
1.11 Housing Department, "Feasibility Report on Mudon Town Water Supply",
March 1982.
1.12 Irrigation Department, "Domestic Water Supply Project (Mon State)",
January 1981.
1.13 Irrigation Department, "Reports on the Proposed Tank Irrigation
Projects", March 1979.
1.14 Irrigation Department, "Report on Rehabilitation of Proposed
Irrigation Projects in the Union of Burma", March 1979.



-102-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
II. Data Compiled by the Appraisal Mission
Vols. I and II                   -  Detailed Engineering Support Data
Vol. III                         -  Design Flood Analyses
Vols. IV and V                   -  Detailed Agricultural Support Data
Vol. VI                         -  Economic Capital Costs
Vol. VII                         -  Price Calculations
Vol. VIII                        -  Cost Recovery Calculations
Vol. IX                          -  Farm Budgets
Vol. X                           -  ERR Calculations
Vol. XI                         -  Support Data for Mudon Water Supply



IBRD 16262
To Thrr-oderiPi   90°36                                                                                                 95o40,                                                                                               95044.                                   APRIL 1982
90 30                                                                                     BURMA                                                                                                                             IND A
/CHINA
20000                                                                          TANK  IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                     20000    (
KINMUNDAUNG  SUBPROJECT                                                                                                                            tBAN6 ,;
-^  Nyauoigbinhl4                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BA8CiAbE0H    RURMA            
Nyaut gbinla ,Proposed Irrigable Area                                                                                                                                                                                                     S                       P
Marn Canals                                                                                                                             ,,          Prefect ...,
____Secondary Cana s                                                                                                                                     Ae 
Bongn                                                                        ---   Tertiary Canals                                                                   - |
L  \  ' Bongon  Drains                                                                                                                                  r              \THAILAN
Proposed  Dam  and  Resewvoir                                                                                                              -   'IIIAIAN
____   Existing Roads
. >   .....  - Roads for Rehabilitation
_  1 t\--N New Roads                                                                                                                                                      .
-r--.---+ -  Raliways                                            °             I             2I           A3 tsnan Sar\
t-.-~r    0Rivers                                                               KILOMETERS                                                                               i
-                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                               2
WN _ \s1  Villages                                               o-MILES                                    2 _  _                                                          (
MI LES
Tro NgAern Forest Rese-e-
15 C ne56
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                                                KIMNAN                                                )     \    / X3<  
Py952 k se, 1, k                                        52 
To All-r,-.          5l§py         T  Pyinmand                                                                          965,40'                                                                                              95°44' 






IBRD 16263
9703E                                   BURMA97            -40'                                                 97°42' To Mo-/i-n                                    97044.                                                            MARCH 1982
BURMA                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA  _ CHINA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                   \,
AZIN SUBPROJECT
ABANI.ADESH                C-1
PROPOSED DAM AND RESERVOIR                                                                                      \URMA
EI\  -' ^PROPOSED IRRIGABLE AREA -UPLAND(ORCHARDSI)
PROPOSED IRRIGABLE AREAS- LOWLAND(PADDY)                                                          t
MAIN CANAL                                                                                   .,                                                                                             R       X    ALAN.A
SECONDARY CANALS                                                                                                 1                                                                                    ,/
-           TERTIARY CANALS                                                                            W'-
-DRAINS                                                                                      0,--                                                                                                ssis 1   sso
ROADS                                                                                                                                           -                                  A       U N,
ROAD UJNDERCONSTRUCTION                                ORj'{7/,,<,        <X                                               1/t'
16~~18                                                                        /7,$i/~~~'                                         - -: I/
16/1--                           KRAILWAYS                                 7        /MA
RIVERS 1                                                   /            /
j ~~VILLAGES///                                                              /          /                      to
'7 9/'/8 /794y                                                   9     >24t                        "-uv                                      '              -                  97O46' 7
w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-  /117'  -- /      /                           05   atien. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*<  j ~~~~This -ap has bees prepa-d by the
,x  /  /7/,  ~~~~~~~~                      /                                   I ~%;World Baks staff -oo-i-rly for
7,  /  /   '~~~~~~~~~~'2'  '           -, ~~~~~~~~the --veiene of the reder of
~~~'  ;%/~~~~~~~~~~~~~    /    -                  ,/' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the report to orhh it is attached.
'7->   <4~~~~~         '\'~~~~.i.    ,~~~~  .,.   ./    -~~~~~~                            rhoe deno,i-ations soed-ad the
- TSeii         1                                                  b          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 dle soft-this map
(  if  ""              /                                   ii'>ii,,n     W                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do sot imply, so the part of tha
I  -  //             4/   /                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jodgosest so the lega otat- of
anf territory or soy e-do-se-t
j  0                          / ~~~~~~~~~"  //  ~~~~~~~   //  ~~~~~~                      niosts/'~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          B-paskas ftsh b-d:tos :
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Es
'7    / ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,,tf e,,,
--~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -P                                                          /.m j(p q,a     r
KILOMETERS
0                                   2 
MILES
970389                                                 97 40'                                                      42'                        To T.i-'v974                    To1oy709






IBRD 16388
97.43'  97°44  97°45'  ~  ^ .   I                              APRIL 1982
97043'                                                                                       97044.                                                                                      97049                        I
To Moolo,eifl
16016                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1601'
t                                                                                                X      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
:~~~' '.\ '                                                                                                                                                   .    'ei
(t,~~~~~~~~</    X                                                           "     :  ToofO'                                     H6         '        , '' - \ BURM
I T-
BANWADESH~~~~00                                        -A                                      \ 0 V- >>   A 
angopn~   ~~~ 9h                                                       8.                                     ___          ,~, o'                             //                                         E            0       nn      60      80      10
Prolect~  ~       ~~~ An d                                                                                                -fT  >an;aa
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                                                                                         fIeheCSnr            wih  d7nks afeesvl o h ove@
E/o.olodKd     /\                                                                                                            !       fga         e  lstmtPlrfo te S f t Vod 3g    d7q
| . /5          To Yd                                             97 44                                                                                        97         TANK
1/  ~~~~~~~             I~~R .......I..'..,NWA E
Ar,1                                           A-----                                                                                                                                                   RIAYMANI"12  i.
SECONDARY MAINS(3"-4410.1)
-.  K-               V.-,'                              '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~"-'---                               RUBBER PLAANTA TIOAVS                         jWATER TREATMENT PLANT
/                               j                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUMPING STATION
10,226  --                                                                                                                 <9   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED DAM AND RESERVOIR
I~L         I(                                                                                   ELEVATED SERVICE RESERVOIR
97'43'                                                                                                                               .jr-~:-::   FUTURE RESIDENTIAL AREAS
I                                                                      -           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIDENTIAL AREA BOUNDARIES
INDIA         ~CHINA                                     1   ADY   IEDSWARD NUMBERS
INDIA                           PADDY FIELDS                                                                                                                                                -7, y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /93  POPULATION
--  .,-.                                   - -    ~~~~~~ROADS
r  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    ~~~~~RAILWAYS
BA.  O 113 E SH      
3  6U6314  0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                                                        /.~~~~~~                 - -       __ ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
-~~                                                       -.       -      -         -            Moo~~~~~~~o~~o,y   /..</Y~~~~~~..I~~>/                  - ~~WARD BOUNDARIES
-  ---         /                                             ~~~~~~~~~~ROAD UNDERCONSTRUCTION
9o09oPr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Iy~~~~~~~~~~A'                                                                                           - ~~~~~~~~~~~0                     290      406      666      696     1 000
-3!  1  -                                                                                                                                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20~0    460  600  999 109
Pro ject Area                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,, TI,bnv-szI'a
if                    Toll~~~~Y                                          9744'                                                                                       97045.



