Document of                           F
The World Bank                                      y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3427-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$19.0 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
November 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1.00 Kyat         =    US$0.14
K 7.20            =    US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                       0.305 meters (m)
1 acre (ac)               =       0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)             2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 cubic foot (cu ft)      =       0.0283 cubic meters (m3) 28.32 liters (1)
1 cubic yard (cu yd)      =       0.765 cubic meters (m32
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)       =       12,344 cubic meters (ml)
1 cubic foot per
second (cfs)                 0.0283 m3/sec
1 pound (lb)                      0.453 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                             1,000 kilograms
1 Imperial gallon (Ig)            1.2 US gallons = 4.5460 liters
1 million Imperial
gallon (IMg)                 4,546.0919 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic foot per
second (cfs)                 28.3161 liters per second (1/sec)
1 acre-foot per year
(ac-ft/yr)            2      1,233.4818 cubic meters per year
1 Imperial gallon per
minute (Igm)                  4.5460 liters per minute (1/m) (m3)
I Imperial gallon per
capita-day (Igcd)            4.5460 literes per day (1/cd)
1 million Imperial
gallons per day
(IMgd)                       4,546.0919 cubic meters per day (m3/d)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Acronyms Used for Government Organizations
AC       =      Agricultural Corporation
AFPTC    =      Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AMD      =      Agricultural Mechanization Department
ARD      =      Agricultural Research Division
ARI      =      Agricultural Research Institute
CC              Construction Corporation
GAD      =      General Affairs Department
HD       =      Housing Department
ID       =      Irrigation Department
MAB      =      Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF      =      Ministry of Agriculture and Forests



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2-
MHRA           Ministry of Home and Religious Affairs
MPF      =     Ministry of Planning and Finance
MTDC     =     Mudon Township Development Committee
PIC      =     Project Implementation Committee
PMEU     =     Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Abbreviations and Other Acronyms
ERR      =     Economic Rate of Return
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HYV            High Yielding Variety
ICB      =     International Competitive Bidding
LSC      =     Long-Staple Cotton
M        =     Million
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PS             Prudent Shopping
PV       =     Present Value
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Anmount:                 Special Drawing Rights 17.9 million
($19.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The project consists of two subprojects, each
located in distinctly different regions namely,
Kinmundaung and Azin. The Kinmundaung sub-project
lies in Magwe Division in the dry zone of central
Burma. The subproject would provide year-round irriga-
tion for about 5,000 acres. Works, facilities, and
programs to be implemented over a four-year period
would include: the construction of an 80 ft. high
earthfill dam, rehabilitation of existing diversion
weir and canal bifurcation headworks and rehabilitation
and extension of two main canals and the construction
of an irrigation distribution system. Complementary
items include buildings, vehicles and facilities for
agricultural extension, training and research.
The Azin subproject is located in the southern coastal area
of Mon State. The subproject would provide irrigation for a
dry-season crop in the area as well as a full drinking water
supply for Mudon Town which has a population of about 40,000.
The subproject would include the construction of a 92 ft. high
earthfill dam, main canals and an irrigation distribution
system for 2,850 acres, and facilities for a state orchard
farm. The water supply component would consist of a water
treatment plant, a pumping station and a distribution system.
At full development, cropping intensities would almost
double for both subprojects; incremental paddy production
would total about 8,100 tons p.a. With the introduction
of cotton and orchard crops, the project would assist
GOB's efforts towards crop diversification while increasing
the value of non-paddy cash crops by about K8.8 M per year.
The project will introduce furrow irrigation to the Kinmundaung
area for the first time. In addition, both subprojects will
introduce new crops such as Long-Staple Cotton (LSC) and a
850 ac irrigated orchard scheme. The project would minimize
agricultural risk by establishing and strengthening research-cum
training farms and demonstration plots to provide essential
extension and research services to the farmers.



- il -
1/
Estimated Cost;                                           $ Million Equivalent
Local    F'oreign   Total
Kinmundaungi
Civil Works                       2.70       0.36     3.06
Equipment and Vehicles            0.93       3.67     4.60
Sub-Total                         3.63       4,03     7.66
Azin:
Civil Works:
Dam, Irrigation
& agricultural support          2.47      0.32      2.79
Mudon Water Supply              1.66       0.51     2.17
Equipment & Vehicles              1.23       4.31     5.54
Sub-Total                         5.36       5.14    10.50
Institution Building
Technical Asst. & Training        0e10       1.32     1.42
Equipment & Vehicles              0.35       0.75     1.10
Sub-Total                         0. 45      2.07     2.52
Engineering & Administration    1.44           -      1.44
Physical Contingencies            1.24       0.17     1.41
Project Base Costs               12.12      11.41    23.53
Price Contingencies               1.86       1.71     3.57
Total Project Costs              13.98      13.12    27.10
Financing Plan:                                            $ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                                5.9      13.1      19.0
Government of Burma                8.1                 8.1
Total                             14.0      13.1      27.1
Estimated                                      $ Million Equivalent
Disbursement:      IDA FY         FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual          0.7     5.4      7.0     3.1      2.2      0.6
Cumulative      0.7     6.1    13.1    16.2    18.4    19.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         13%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            3947-BA
Maps:               IBRD 16262; IBRD 16263; IBRD 16388
1/ Includes duties and taxes amounting to US$1.32 M, and reserved procurement
of US$1.0 M. The total project costs net of duties, taxes and reserved
procurement amounts to US$24.78 M.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR THE TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the fcllowing report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) 17.9 million ($19.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance the Tank Irrigation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Priorities for Continued
Growth" (Report No. 3852-BA, dated May 7, 1982) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1982. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
Government in 1962 and vested authority in a revolutionary council. Then, the
Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December 1973, and
under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was created with supreme
executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program
Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The
Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values
and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the
Twenty-Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being
implemented through a succession of Four-Year Plans. U Ne Win, who had been
President since 1962, announced his resignation just prior to the national
election in November 1981 and was succeeded by U San Yu, former Secretary
General of the BSPP. Insurgency remains a problem, particularly in the hills
and border areas, although there is definitely greater territorial control by
the Government now then at any time since Independence in 1948.
4.      During the 1960s and the early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political goals, particularly in
terms of extending public ownership and Burmese control of economic
institutions. Although the insurgency problem was not resolved, broad
national unity was maintained. Tenancy and agricultural rents were abolished
and landholdings made more equal. Health and education facilities were
distributed more widely among the population, and malnutrition was largely
eliminated. On the other hand, economic performance suffered over this
period, the major features being slow growth, a fall in domestic savings and a
shrinking of the external sector. A sharp drop in current fiscal revenue, due
largely to the decline in tax revenues from official external trade, precluded
the Government from raising public investment sufficiently to compensate for
declining private investment. This led to heavy reliance on domestic credit
for financing public expenditures, and eventually to large increases in the
money supply and inflation.



-2-
5.      In recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government
initiated a program of reforms in 1972 with the publication of the Twenty-Year
Plan. The main objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within
the context of a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and
self-sufficiency by converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based
industrial society, to eliminate unemployment and to reduce income
disparities. The Government's strategy for achieving these goals is
constantly evolving, with innovations proposed as new constraints are
encountered. The main elements of this strategy, however, appear to be: (a)
to give higher priority initially to the directly productive sectors,
especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to make greater use of
aid, trade, and to a lesser extent technical assistance; (c) to follow a price
stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction, through increased
efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture; and (d) to begin
to introduce work incentives and commercial principles, especially in the
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).
6.      A wide range of policy reforms followed the publication of the
Twenty-Year Plan. While pricing policy still reflected the desire to provide
basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, procurement prices of a
variety of agricultural products were raised substantially to improve the
economic position of the farmer. In industry, the Government increased the
ex-factory prices for many of the SEEs. Meanwhile, the official exchange rate
was devalued and the interest rate on savings deposits raised. In addition to
these pricing reforms the Government introduced a major tax reform designed to
restore the country's public finance to a sound basis.
7.      In part, as a result of these measures, and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second
Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%,
compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation
increased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a
percent of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary provision of the
Government lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn,
contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation. The consumer price index
declined slightly during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%,
during 1978. The average annual growth in exports was 3-4% in real terms; and
increased external borrowing permitted an annual average growth in imports of
16%.
8.      The growth momentum was sustained through the Third Four Year Plan
period (1978/79-1981/82). During this time, Burma achieved an average annual
GDP growth of 6.6% in real terms, accompanied by rising exports and stable
prices. This favorable performance has been largely due to (a) steadily
rising agricultural production, resulting mainly from the Government s
introduction of high-yielding varieties; (b) higher capacity utilization



-3 -
primarily in industry; and (c) rapid increases in investment, particularly in
the public sector.
9.      The Government-s introduction of an agricultural intensification
program, the Whole Township Program, has also contributed to a revitalization
of agriculture in Burma in recent years. Program coverage for paddy, expanded
from 2% of paddy-sown area in 1977/78 to 51% in 1981/82; during this period,
paddy production increased by about 50%. The Whole Township Program has also
been extended to other czrops, including groundnuts, maize, wheat, sesame,
cotton, beans and pulses with good results. The focus of the Government's
agricultural program over the next few years will be on the consolidation of
past gains in paddy, with particular emphasis on quality improvements in
export rice, and further extension of the Whole Township Program to non-paddy
crops. There are indications that the dramatic increases in agricultural
production in recent years have highlighted the bottlenecks in complementary
transportation, handling, storage and milling facilities. In the coming
years, the Government will have to deal with these bottlenecks through
investments in additional capacity.
10.     Benefiting from increased domestic supplies of agricultural raw
materials as well as from a steady growth of intermediate good imports,
capacity utilization in the light and agro-based industries in the public
sector has improved. Thie increased level of economic activity during this
period is also reflected in the higher gross domestic capital formation. The
share of investment in GDP in constant prices increased from 10% in 1978/79 to
17% in 1981/82. On the other hand, the rapid expansion of public investment,
which accounts for 80% of the total, has been largely responsible for the
widening in the overall budgetary deficit from 10% of GDP in 1978/79 to an
estimated 17% in 1981/82. Public savings have shown only a modest growth, and
the increasing deficit hLas been financed by large increases in external
assistance and domestic credit.
11.     Over the same period, merchandise exports and imports both increased
in nominal terms by about 20% annually. The current account deficit
stabilized at about 6% of GDP, and net disbursements of loans at around
US$350-400 million a year. The relatively small current account deficit
reflects the Government's conservative approach to balance-of-payments
management, not the real import needs of the country. The Government controls
all imports through a foreign exchange budget, drawn up in accordance with
anticipated financing. Although foreign exchange availabilities have
improved, shortages of imported intermediate and consumer goods still remain.
12.     The Government's planned annual GDP growth for the Fourth Four Year
Plan is 6.2%. In order to attain this ambitious target, the Government needs
to achieve: (a) continuied success in the development of the agricultural
sector; (b) further improvements in capacity utilization especially in
industry; (c) a judicious choice of investment projects; and (d) sufficient
resources - both foreign and domestic - to expand the investment program at



-4-
the required rate, Over the medium term, rice exports will undoubtedly
continue to be the m-inotay for Burma's foreign exohtngo earninrgN,  Howeavr,
the CovcrnmentV'a longer term strategy i-: to broaden the coustry' 9 export bWeA
through agritultural diver -ification and promotion of agro-baaed  industries.
1i.     Moreover, in order to maintain the growth mornentum, the Government
will need to expand absorptive capacity for external assistance by emphasizing
institution building and management development to a much greater extent than
in the past. 'I'he Burmese planning and administrative system, as it now
exists, is complex and rigid in its manner of operation and appears to focus
excessively on the formulation of targets. Streamlining of the entire
planning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision-making,
and strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and
implement projects are urgently needed.
14.     Burma's debt service ratio increased from 13% in the 1977/78 to about
28% in 1981/82, due primarily to a substantial increase in the loans from
private financial institutions and suppliers' credits. By March 1981, Burma's
external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately $1.5
billion. Burma's exports have been showing steady growth in recent years, and
the potential for a continued upward trend is good. Nevertheless, because of
the rising debt service burden and because of Burma's low income level,
external assistance should continue to be on concessionary terms and should,
in addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present,
be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is
particularly n(eeded for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
15.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a
relatively healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the
quality with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank
continues to discuss with the Government further improvements in economic
policy which might help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
developmnent as well as external assistance requirements. Discussions on these
topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma
Aid Group meetings which the Bank has organized at the Government's request.
The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and
there have been four subsequent meetings, with indications of increasing donor
support each year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.     Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totaling $33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon



-5-
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
17.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending began in
1973 and since then 19 credits totaling $517.1 million equivalent (net of
cancellations) have been made. About 54% of this assistance was for the
agricultural sector, consisting of eleven projects: irrigation, rubber,
livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects, grain
storage, two forestry projects, a wood industries project, and the Kinda
(Nyaunggyat) Dam multipurpose project. About 8% of IDA-s assistance supported
the rehabilitation of the transport sector through three projects, namely
inland water transport, railways, and a second ports project. About 16% has
been for two projects in the telecommunications sector (i3%) and one project
in the mining sector (3%). The remaining 22% of !DA assistance has been for
two projects designed to further strengthen the infrastructure namely, a power
project (17.2%) and a construction industry project (5%).   Five credits have
been fully disbursed so far. On the resumption of operations in 1973 there
were some difficulties with disbursement performance. However,performance has
improved considerably particularly as agencies, such as the Irrigation
Department have become more familiar with the Bank's procedures. In general,
IDA-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily. The proposed
Credit would be the first in FY83. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
18.     In the past, lendi'ng was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge of
some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through the
ongoing projects and sector work, the Bank's knowledge of many sectors has
improved. A $4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella
Project), for which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project
pipeline suitable for external financing in priority sectors such as
agriculture, transport, power, and industry. The Seed Development, Rubber
Rehabilitation, Power and Construction Industry Projects (Credit Nos. 745-BA,
879-BA, 1245-BA, and 1253-BA, respectively) were prepared under the Umbrella
Project. A second phase of this Umbrella Project has been agreed with the
Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association plans to continue its
technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation and implementation capabilities, as well as administrative
and managerial skills through in-service and overseas training.
19.     The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying
production for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the
development of agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and
where possible, priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the



-6-
same time, financing of infrastructure improvements will continue in the
development of power and such areas as transportation, telecommtnications, and
construction, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities.
20.     In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
many of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. Projects under preparation
include paddy development, groundwater irrigation, rubber rehabilitation,
textiles, and port rehabilitation and expansion.
21.     The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE SECTORS
Agricultural Sector
22,     Agriculture (including livestock, forestry and fisheries) is the
principal sector of the economy, accounting for about 45% of GDP in 1980/81,
65% of the labor force, and 80% of total exports. Rice is the major export
commodity and is a significant source of government: reverLue, Rice is planted
on 55% of the total cultivated area and accounts for more than one-third of
total agriculttural output. Other important crops include oilseeds (18% of the
gross sown area), pulses (7%), industrial crops (5%), and plantation crops
(5%).
23.     Although favorable weather conditions played a part, the recent
improvement in agricultural production is mainly attributable to the
introduction of high yielding rice varieties through the Whole Township
Extension Program and to expanded irrigation. Under the extension program,
increased amounts of improved seeds, fertilizer and other inputs were made
available and extension services were intensified. The program was initiated
in one village in 1975/76 but has since been expanded to cover 72 townships
(51% of the area sown to paddy) by 1981/82 and other crops have been included.
National paddy production increased by about 50% (from 9.3 M tons to 13.9 M
tons) during 1977/78 to 1981/82.
Irrigation Subsector
24.     Annual rainfall ranges from 20-40 inches in the Central Dry Zone to
160-240 inches along the coastal areas of Arakan and Tenasserim, concentrated
mainly in the monsoon period from May to October. There is practically no
rain from December to March. The heavy monsoon rainfall permits cultivation
of a main season rainfed paddy crop in most parts of the country except the
dry zone. In the Central Dry Zone, where rainfall is insufficient and



-7-
unevenly distributed, supplemental irrigation is essential for paddy
production in the wet season. Even in the highe,t rainfall areas, irrigation
is necessary to ensure a productive dry-season ccop.
25.     Of the 20) M ac net cultivable area, 2.5 M ac were irrigated in 1980/81
versus an average of 2.1 M ac during the previous ten years. Since 1961/62,
about 270 Government irrigation and flood protection projects with a total
irrigable area of 390,000 ac and a flood-protected area of about 890,000 ac
have been completed by the Irrigation Department (ID). These projects have
increased the total irrigable area under Government schemes to about 1.4 m ac
and the flood-protected area to 2.7 M ac.  Nearly 60% of the Government
irrigation schemes are diversion schemes on five main tributaries of the
Irrawaddy River. Private initiatives in irrigation at the community and
individual level include village diversion schemes covering about 700,000 ac,
widely dispersed in the Dry Zone, and village tank schemes covering about
120,000 ac, largely concentrated in upper reaches of the Dry Zone catchment
areas.
26.     The economic reforms of the mid-1970s gave higher priority to the
agricultural sector, and in line with this GOB has made progress in
accelerating the pace of irrigation development. In particular, a greater
willingness to accept foreign assistance has increasd substantially the
resources available for irrigation projects, and a number of major new
programs have been launched or are under consideration. Feasibility studies
and investigations are under way in many geographical areas, and a wide range
of further projects can be envisaged. (Hydro-electric development is an
important, and in some cases the principal, component of the major storage
projects, while these and other projects can also have implications for other
sectors including transport, fisheries and town water supply.)
27.     IDA has been closely involved in the accelerated activity in the
irrigation sector. The first project approved following the recommencement of
borrowing from the Bank Group in 1973 was an irrigation project (Cr. 483-BA,
$17 M) which was completed in 1980. This project financed some 13,000
low-lift pumps for sale to farmers, as well as rehabilitation of minor flood
embankments in the delta area and equipment repair and feasibility studies.
This was followed by two Paddylands Projects (Cr. 642-BA, $30 M and Cr.
835-BA, $34.5 M) which are financing flood protection works in the delta area
together with some pump irrigation and associated activities. The most recent
project approved in the sector was a multipurpose hydro and irrigation
development project on the Paunglaung river in Central Burma (Nyaunggyat Dam,
now renamed Kinda Dam, Cr. 1031-BA, $90 M). Projects under consideration for
the future include another paddylands project, further land reclamation and
drainage projects (being prepared in the context of an overall hydrological
study of the delta area); a groundwater project (recently appraised); and an
irrigation rehabilitation and maintenance project for existing systems. In
general, IDA is supportive of GOB-s current priorities to include smaller



-8
storage developments which would diversify investment in irrigation to areas
in need of improvement not covered previously.
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
28.     In Burma about 26 million people live in some 65,000 rural villages
and about 8 million in 288 urban areas. Over 80% of these urban areas have a
population below 20,000. About 14% of the rural population have access to
safe water supply through use of about 7,000 tubewells. The rest of the rural
population relies on pollution-prone shallow open wells, ponds, irrigation
canals and rivers. In urban areas, about 35% of the population in 63 towns
have access to a safe water supply, of which 60% live in Rangoon and Mandalay,
the two major cities. Most systems provide only a few hours of wvater per day,
mostly through standpipes. Including the rural population, nationwide
coverage drops to about 19%. Rural sanitation service is estimated to cover
about 15% of the population, whereas urban areas have about 33% coverage.
Enteritis and Diarrhea have been identified as the main diseases among
out-patients nationwide and are the second leading diseases among hospital
in-patients. Rangoon is the only place having a water-borne sewerage system,
with a coverage of about 10% of its population. In other towns, including
Mandalay, the sanitary facilities in use range from surface, pit and bucket
latrines to septic tanks. Nationwide service coverage is estimated to be
about 20%.
29.     GOB has set year 1990 service development targets of 50% and 54% for
the water supply and sanitation sectors, respectively. It is estimated that
investments of about US$320 M for water supply and US$190 M for sewerage
development (1981 prices) would be required to meet planned service targets.
The program includes 30 towns for water supply improvements, in addition to
Rangoon and Mandalay. GOBs Environmental Health Program for FY82/83 to
FY85/86 includes construction of 700,000 latrines in rural areas and 105,000
in urban areas, in addition to providing sanitary facilities to a large number
of schools, hospitals and rural health centers. IDA does not yet have any
lending operation in Burma for water supply/sanitation projects, due mainly to
lack of sector information and adequately prepared project proposals. The
proposed inclusion of an urban water supply component under an irrigation
project is expected to be the first step to future water supply sector
operations financed by IDA in Burma.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
30.     The project includes two of a series of medium tank irrigation
projects designed for the Magwe Division in the central dry zone and in the
southern coastal area of Mon State. The Irrigation Department (ID) was
assisted in the preparation of the project by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative
Program. The ID submitted to IDA feasibility reports for Kinmundaung and Azin



-9-
schemes in 1981 and a separate report for Mudon Wate. Suppi) was submitted by
the Housing Department (HD) of the Ministry of Construction in April 1982.
The project was appraised in November/December i981 and a subsequent appraisal
of the Water Supply component was undertaken in February/March 1982. The
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Burma: Tank Irrigation Project" (No. 3947-BA
dated November 1982) is being distributed separately. A timetable of
important events relating to the project and the special conditions of the
proposed credit are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. from November 1 to November 5, 1982. The Burmese delegation was led by
His Excellency U Ye Goung, Minister of Agriculture and Forests; U Khin Maung
Latt, Director General, Planning and Statistics Department, Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests; U Maung Maung Kyi, Director General, Irrigation
Department; Dr. Thein Swe, Deputy Director, Foreign Economic Relations
Department (FERD) in the Ministry of Planning and Finance; U Thein Tun, Deputy
Director, Irrigation Department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests;
and U Hla Oo, Personal Assistant to the Minister of Agriculture and Forests.
Project Description
31.     The proposed project is the first medium tank irrigation scheme
assisted by the Bank Group in Burma. The main objective of the project is to
increase crop production and farm incomes in Kinmundaung and Azin by providing
storage dams and new irrigation facilities. It would also help to improve the
health standards of the Mudon population by providing a piped municipal water
supply system. Water supplies developed by the project would enable the
introduction of double cropping in the Kinmundaung area and a dry season crop
in the Azin area as well as a full water supply for Mudon. Technical
assistance would also be provided to strengthen the implementation
capabilities of ID, Agricultural Corporation (AC) and HD. The project
includes the following components:
Kinmundaung:
(a) construction of an earthfill dam about 80 feet (24 m) in
height;
(b) rehabilitation of the existing diversion weir and canal
bifurcation headworks;
(c) rehabilitation and extension of two main canals and
construction of an irrigation distribution system for
5,000 ac;
(d) buildings, vehicles, equipment and facilities for
construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) use;
(e) improved facilities and services for agricultural extension
and training; and
(f) facilities for a new research farm (50 ac).



-10-
Azin:
(a) construction of an earthfill dam about 92 feet (28 m) in
height;
(b) construction of main canals and an irrigation distribution
system for 2,850 ac;
(c) buildings, equipment, vehicles and facilities for
construction and O&M use;
(d) improved facilities and services for agricultural extension,
research and training;
(e)  facilities for a State Orchard Farm (250 ac); and
(f) construction of a water supply system for the town of Mudon,
including water treatment, pumping and distribution
facilities.
Institution Building:
Technical assistance, training, equipment and vehicles to
strengthen the implementing agencies (ID, AC and HD), in
particular the design, implementation and maintenance
capability of ID.
Organization, Implementation and Management
32.     The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) would have overall
responsibility for project implementation. The Irrigation Department (ID),
Agricultural Corporation (AC), Agricultural Mechanization Department (AMD),
Mudon Township Development Committee (MTDC), Housing Department (HD) and the
Construction Corporation (CC) in the Ministry of Construction would be
responsible for executing the various components of the project. The Planning
and Statistics Department of MAF and the General Affairs Department of the
Ministry of Home and Religious Affairs as well as the Ministry of Planning and
Finance would be directly involved with implementing agencies in project
coordination and management, while the Agricultural and Farm Products
Corporation (AFPTC), and Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) would also be
indirectly involved with project implementation.
33.     The ID  would be responsible for (i) construction of the dams and
allied structures, including intake and outlet structures for Mudon water
supply; (ii) construction/rehabilitation of the Main Canals and irrigation
distribution systems; (iii) construction of access roads, O&M buildings and
camp-sites; and (iv) procurement of equipment and materials for construction
and O&M. GOB has agreed to establish a unit in ID to assume responsibility
for project construction management; the unit would comprise a Project
Director (Superintending Engineer) and two Project Managers for Kinmundaung
and Azin (Section 3.02(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).



-1 1-
34.    The AC is reso)nsible for (i) strengthening extension services in
project sub-areas; (ii) establishing a new research-cuia-training farm in the
Kinmundaung area and strengthening the two existing farms near Mudon; (iii)
establishing a State Orchard Farm in Azin; and (iv) monitoring and evaluating
the agricultural sspects of the project. For this project, AC has appointed a
Project Extension Manager for each subproject. The AMD is responsible for any
land clearing and levelling Lequired in the project area.
35.     The Construction Corporation (CC) would be responsible for
constructing both the Hudon Water Supply facilities and the Agricultural
Research Farm of Azin under agreement with ID. The Housing Department would
plan, layout and design the water supply facilities.
36.     The prGject is expected to be completed in four years. The remaining
months in 1982 wouid be spent in finalizing design and procuring of equipment
and vehicles. Final designs of dams, apartment structures and irrigation
facilities are expected to be completed by December 1982. Organizing and
training staff, constructing camps and access roads, and clearing and
preparing dam sites would be undertaken in early 1983. Construction of the
main portions of dams and irrigation facilities is expected to start after the
end of the rainy season in 1983 and be completed by June 1986. Dam fill would
be placed in three working seasons. During the third dry season, river flows
would be diverted through the outlet works while the final fill section is
placed. Irrigation water deliveries are expected to start in November 1986.
Agricultural Extension and Research staff would be established and trained
early in the program and extension facilities developed during the 1983-85
period.
37.     Work on the Mudon water supply component is scheduled to start in
April 1983 with the tendering of equipment and materials. Actual construction
is scheduled to begin in November 1983 and is expected to be completed in June
1986. During the period the reservoir is being filled (1986 monsoon),
treatment, pumping and distribution facilities would be tested prior to
commencement of operations of the whole system.
38.     To coordinate work of the various implementing agencies GOB has agreed
to establish a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) (Section 3.02(a) of
draft Development Credit Agreement) similar to the PICs for the Lower Burma
Paddy Land Development Projects I and II and the Kinda Dam Multipurpose
Project. The PIC, which will be chaired by the Deputy Minister of MAF, is
responsible for (i) administering, reviewing and approving annual work
programs and budgets; (ii) reviewing quarterly progress reports; (iii)
establishing inter-ministerial project-related policies and solving related
problems; and (iv) conferring with IDA on all project-related policy matters.



-12-
Cost Estimates
39.     The project is estimated to cost US$27.1 M, including import duties
and taxes of US$1.32 M, and US$3.57 M for price escalation. Foreign exchange
costs would be about US$13.1 M, or 48% of total costs. Costs were based on
prices prevailing in December 1981 and were updated to July 1982 price levels.
Administration and engineering costs are based on proposed organizational
arrangements and operational expenses, and would amount to about 12% of
construction costs. Physical contingencies were estimated at 15% of civil
works costs. Price contingencies were estimated on the basis of annual
inflation rates of 8% in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% in
1986. Since about 50% of project costs are for the purchase of equipment and
vehicles in the first year of the project, price contingencies are only about
15% of base costs, including physical contingencies.
Financing
40.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$19.0 M would finance about 77% of total
project costs, including the full foreign exchange cost of US$13.1 M and about
51% (US$5.9 M equivalent) of local costs, net of duties, taxes and reserved
procurement. GOB would finance about US$8.1 M equivalent. Since the Mudon
Water Supply facilities would be constructed by CC under agreement with ID
utilizing project funds, there would be no on-lending arrangement between GOB
and MTDC.
Procurement and Disbursements
41.     Materials, equipment and vehicles, estimated to cost US$9.7 M,
including price escalation but net of taxes and duties, would be financed by
IDA and would be procured through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines.
However, individual items, costing less than US$30,000 and for which
international tendering would not be practical, would be procured after
comparing prices from not less than three independent suppliers in accordance
with GOB procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases, however,
would be limited to an aggregate amount of US$400,000. A 15% preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in bid evaluation under ICB procurement. Bidding
documents for all procurement estimated to cost $100,000 or more and all
proposed awards related thereto would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
Civil works for dams and irrigation facilities, are unlikely to attract
foreign contractors, because of the relatively small amounts involved (US$6.4
M) 1/ and especially the diverse locations. No private construction industry
exists in Burma. Works will therefore be carried out by ID which has capacity
1/ Current estimates of the size of a single contract in Burma that is likely
to attract foreign contractors is at least US$10.0 M.



-13-
and proven experience in such construction works. The construction of the
Mudon Water Supply facil,ities (US$2.53 M) and the State Farm facilities in
Azin (US$0.3 1M) would be carried out by CC, which has sufficient capacity and
experience in its specialized division for water supply and sanitation works,
as well as general building and other works.
42.     Disbursements from the IDA credit would cover:
(a) 50% of expenditures for civil works, including the dams,
irrigation and drainage systems, clearing, roads,
construction camps, and Mudon Water Supply facilities;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
vehicles and spare parts;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment;
(d) 75% of locally procured equipment; and
(e) 100% of expenditures for consulting services and overseas
training of staff.
Disbursements for item (a) would be made against statements of expenditure,
documentation for which would be retained by the implementing agencies for
review by IDA upon request and audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. The ID would be responsible for preparation, review and
submission of all applications for disbursement to IDA on irrigation works as
well as Mudon town water supply works. It is expected that disbursements
would be completed by mid 1988.
Budgeting Accounts and Audit
43.     To ensure the timely and successful implementation of the project,
and at the Association's request, GOB has agreed to furnish to the
Association, inter alia information concerning the project budget and
implementation plan. (Section 4.01(e) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
This will enable IDA to assess and discuss with GOB any implementation
constraints that may be imposed by possible budget limitations before the
start of each fiscal year.
44.     In addition GOB has agreed to provide separate unaudited accounts for
each project component within four months after the end of the fiscal year to
be followed by certified copies of the audited accounts and auditor's report
within nine months of the end of the fiscal year. These accounts are to be
maintained by respective implementing agencies and collated by PIC. The
accounts would be audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
principles as applied by the Director General, Central Accounts Office, acting
on behalf of the Council of the People's Inspectors of GOB (Sections 4.01(c)
and 4.01(d) of draft Development Credit Agreement).



-14-
Operation, Maintenance and Evaluation
45.     After completion of construction, responsibility for operation and
maintenance of the dams and irrigation facilities would be transferred to
separate maintenance divisions of ID. A review of the completed works would
be made before transfer to ensure that the facilities are properly completed
and are operational. Each subproject would have its own O&M unit, which would
be headed by an Assistant Engineer. Water courses and field ditches would be
operated and maintained by the farmers with assistance from the Assistant
Canal Inspector. The Canal Inspector would check the crops grown, time of
planting and harvesting and general irrigation practices. These activities
would be coordinated with the Agricultural Extension Service. The Mudon TDC
would be responsible for O&M of the Water Supply component.
46.     The Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) of AC would conduct
benchmark surveys at two-year intervals beginning January 1984 and ending
January 1992. Such surveys would cover cropped area, yields, use of farm
inputs, and project related changes in area, employment opportunities and in
farm and family incomes. The AC would submit its monitoring proposals to IDA
by June 1983
Agricultural Cost Recovery
47.     Recovieries by GOB have been estimated on the basis of present values
of GOB compulsory procurement of paddy and cotton, and land and water
taxation. The compulsory paddy procurement system, while ensuring cost
recovery, had also proved to be highly successful in providing farmers with
immediate access to necessary inputs as well as the market. The system
imposes an implicit tax on paddy growers that increases progressively with
farm size and yields and thus provides a significant cost recovery source.
This amount has been estimated as the difference between the projected export
price of rice and GOB procurement price plus processing, storage and transport
costs. In the same way the recovery on cotton is calculated as the difference
between GOB's purchase price and the weighted average of projected border
prices of cotton seed oil, lint (import substitutes) and cotton seed cake
(export) appropriately adjusted for processing, storage and transport costs.
48.     Cost recovery was analyzed from two perspectives.  In Case I provision
is made for a nominal GOB official supply and procurement prices increase by
the inflation rate of 6% p.a. (1983-1995), so that these prices are maintained
in real terms. In Case II nominal prices are kept constant to reflect GOB's
disinclination to adjust prices. Thus it is assumed that real prices would
deteriorate at 6% p.a. The cost to GOB in terms of present value (PV) over
the 30-year project life include: (i) total capiital costs excluding price
contingencies, taxes, and duties; (ii) recurrent O&M and equipment replacement
expenses; and (iii) subsidies on incremental fertilizer inputs. For the
Kinmundaung subproject under Case I, the total cost would amount to K45.25 M
and recoveries would amount to K21.32, i.e. 47% recovery rate of construction



-1 5-
in addition to 100% of O&M costs. Under Case II total cost would be K46.74 M
and recoveries would be K32.99 M, i.e. 71% recovery rate of construction costs
plus 100% of O&M costs. For the Azin subproject total cost would amount to
K41.84 and K43.14 for Cases I and 11 respectively; recoveries would be K15.35
M (37%) and 18.93 (44%).3 In actuality, these rates would likely fall between
Cases I and II. In any case, it should be noted that O&M costs would be fully
recovered and a significant portion of capital costs would also be recovered.
Financial Aspects of Mudon Water Supply Component
49.     Since Mudon does not have a public water supply at present, there is
no specific basis on which to build a financial analysis based on historic
data. Consequently, the tariff level has been determined in accordance with
two criteria: (i) affordability based on annual family income, i.e.
percentage of family income; and (ii) maximum possible cost recovery and
minimizing of subsidy needs. It is assumed that families with annual income
ranging from K2,500 (US$347 equivalent, lowest reported family income at 1982
price levels) to K4,000 (US$556 equivalent, overall median family income)
would use water supplied predominantly through standposts.  The cost of this
water consumption will not exceed 2% of the lowest family income at 1988 price
levels (K3,350 per year - K2,500 plus 5% p.a. for escalation) assuring the
lowest possible tariff for the comparatively poorest segment of the Mudon
population. The resulting tariff would be KO.59 (US cents 8.2) per m3.
50,     House connections would be provided for families with incomes ranging
from K4,000 (overall family medium income) to about K30,000 p.a. (at 1982
price levels). For families with an income higher than K4,O00, the annual
outlay for water should amount to about 4% of the group's average income. The
resulting tariff would be K1.86 (US cents 26) per m3.
51.     Under the assumptions described above, revenues are expected to cover
annual costs plus depreciation throughout the projected period. Rates of
return of up to 1.6% on non-revalued net fixed assets in operation are likely
to be achieved. In order to achieve and maintain a reasonable financial
position of the water supply activities in Mudon, agreements have been reached
with GOB to permit the Mudon TDC to set tariffs at levels to cover the cost of
operation, maintenance, administration and depreciation of the Mudon water
supply facilities, as well as depreciation of the allocated portion of the
Azin dam capital cost (Section 3.08 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
52.     Agriculture.  The primary benefit would be to diversify crop
production while increasing output. In the Kinmundaung subproject cropping
intensity is expected to increase from about 85% to about 150% within a few
years of completion. While paddy would remain as the most important crop,
cotton, groundnuts, sunflower and sesame would be cultivated. Projected



-16-
incremental paddy production is estimated at 3,900 p.a. tons at full
development.
53.     In Azin the existing paddy area is ideally suited for a second paddy
crop and cropping intensity with the project is expected tD reach 200%. In
addition the upland areas would be planted to fruit trees and intercropped
with bananas, pineapples and vegetables until the main orchard crops mature.
Incremental paddy production is estimated at 4,200 tons at full development.
The combined total value of (non-paddy) cash crops is expected to total about
K8.8 M per year, reflecting the introduction of Long-Staple Cotton (LSC) in
Kinmundaung and the new orchards in Azin.
54.     Overall the project would directly benefit some 1,600 farm families;
it would enable more intensive agricultural development in areas where
agriculture is currently dependent upon scarce or unevenly distributed
rainfall and ineffective run-of-the river diversions. Thus by ensuring a more
stable irrigation, the project would facilitate increased crop production, and
higher and more regular farm family incomes and employment. In Kinmundaung
current per capita income is low (less than K300). With the project about 40%
of the population would be expected to attain income levels above the current
national average K1,296 (US$180). Current annual per capita income of farmers
in the Azin area (about K730) is expected to increase significantly. At full
development per capita income of 70% of the project area population would
exceed the national average. In addition annual farm labor requirements at
Kinnundaung would increase from the current 120,000 man-days to about 400,000
man-days. At Azin the expected increase would be from 61,000 to 337,000
man-days for paddy growing and about 158,000 man-days p.a., for the first six
years of orchard establishment and about 86,000 man-days p.a. thereafter.
55.     Burma-s net foreign exchange earnings from incremental production are
estimated at US$1.35 M and US$0.75.M per year for Kinmundaung and Azin
respectively.
56.    IMudon Water Supply.  Mudon lacks an adequate and safe drinking water
supply, which limits its further growth and economic development. The Azin
dam would provide a technically feasible, economically viable and long-term
solution for the development of a public water supply by providing 1.4 IMgd of
safe drinking water.
57.     Project Total. The overall economic rate of return from total project
investments, inclusive of physical contingencies is estimated to be 13%.
Investment in the Kinmundaung subproject would yield an estimated economic
rate of return of about 13.6% as compared to 12.3% of Azin.
Project Risks
58.     The project would have no adverse environmental effects.  The
Kinmundaung subproject would introduce furrow irrigation in areas planted to



-17-
upland crops. This type of irrigation is not currently practiced widely in
the area. Furthermore in some years in the past, the LSC, which is new to the
area experienced losses due to bollworm. To mitigate this the project would
inter alia (i) establish a research-cum-training farm and demonstration plots
to provide essential extension and research services to the farmers; (b)
provide sprayers and chemicals for pest control and (c) limit cotton
cultivation to only one season and encourage proper post-harvest field
sanitation. These efforts, together with further experience to be gained from
the Agricultural Research Institute in Yezin and the IDA-financed Kinda Dam
Multipurpose Project, are expected to reduce project risks considerably.
59.     At Azin the inclusion of 850 ac of orchards enhances the project-s
viability. Nevertheless the orchard component would be vulnerable to risks
associated with the lack of experience of participating farmers, the
relatively longer gestation period, and commodity perishiability. The project
would minimize such risks by providing research, training and extension
facilities. In addition GOB has agreeed to provide the participating farmers
and orchard growers with the necessary long-term credit (Section 3.06 of draft
Development Credit Agreement). Sensitivity analyses indicate that economic
viability is more sensitive to changes in agricultural benefits (particularly
paddy and cotton prices and yields) than construction costs. However, the
project's viability would be maintained even if paddy and cotton prices were
down by further 20%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to ithe Executive Directors separately.
61.     A special condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit is the
appointment of the Project Director and two Project Managers, (Section 6.01 of
draft Credit Agreement); this is shown in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 29, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -                                             ANNEX I
TA8I,E 3A
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                        REFERENCE CROUPS (WE1CIlT.D AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSANi S. KM.)                                                                   MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTA .             (7I.N                                    HOST RECENT        LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      103.9                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     S0.0          70.0     170.0               261.4                      890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PLR CAP'ITA
(CILOGRAfS Ut COAL lLUIVALENT)         55.3         62.5       67.4               448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  KlD-lEA lOLSANDS) 21780.0            27346.0   34818.0
URBAN POPULAT1UN (Pi,RCEN: OF TOTAL) 19.3           22.8       27.2                17.3                      32.4
POPUIATION PROJECTIONS
POILATIUl IS YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            54.1
STATTONARY iOIU)AII1N (MILLIONS)                            109.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION ES REACHtD                      2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ki.                          32.2         40.4       50.2               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. EM. ACRICULTURAL LAND    203.7           253.4      327.1               355.9                    1748.0
POPULA1ION ACG  SlRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            38.2         40.3       41.2                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                            59.2         56.3       55.1                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AIlD ABOVE                     2.6          3.3        3.7                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION CROW'H RATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                                 1.9          2.3        2.4                 2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                 3.7          4.0        4.2                 3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTll RAIE (PfP TliOUSAND)      42.9         40.1       37.4                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEAI H RATI: (l.R TEOUSAND)      21.0         16.8       13.5                11.0                       9.8
CROSS RFPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          2.8        2.6                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PlANSINC
ACrEPTORS, ANNUAL (T9L'SANDS)          ..            .         .
USERS (PERCENT OF H-ARIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..                19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Ol t OI PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            100.0        101.0      102.0               108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIFS k?EkCLNT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      95.1        102.4      103.0/c              97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)             51.6         56.2       57.1/ei             56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANUIMl, ANI PULSE         10.9         12.0       11.4/i              20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        24.7         18.3       12.8                10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTA.NCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.8           48.7       53.7                57.8                      59.8
INFANT MO?.TALITY RNATF (PER
THOUSAND)                             158.0        127.9      100.7                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0       17.0/d              32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                             35.0       30.0/i              70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                  ..         13.0       13.0/i              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         35.0       33.0/e              18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                  ..         45.0       38.0/i              72.7                      65.7
RUPAL                                  ..         32.0       32.0/e               4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PiiYSIC-AN           15557.0       8898.8    5260.8/c             3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATlOI PER NLKSINC PERSON        8545.0/f    7471.6    4402.3/c              4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                              1520.8       1186.7    1137.6/c             1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                               332.0/f      351.9      388.4/i             301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                     -   15413.3    7424.8/c             5815.7                     2597.6
ADISESSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         34.0          ..                 ..                      27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUS:IIDLD
TOTAL                                 4.6           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE KLMRER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL.                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO tlF:CTIICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 19 -                                          ANIEXI
Peap 2
.AP:.F 3A
BC{MA - S             'CATORS DA1T/, S:: 7
BURLMA                       KhEFrRENCE GROUiPS (WEIGHTFD AV' RACES
_ UST R 'CENT F ' TA'A F    _'
MOST PYC1'NT       Td57 I",                 Xi.l'    OME
1960  /b    1970 /b ES1MATE /b   A'IA & PACIFIC                 ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
DJUo,C hENkOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYi      TOTAL                  56.0         87.0        84.0/c              97.4                       96.2
ML.IE                  61.0         92.0        87.0/t            101.0                       99.8
FEMALE                 52.0         83.0       81.0/7              87.8                       92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   10.0          21.0       20.0/c              53.0                       37.6
MALF                   13.0         26.0       22.0/7              63.8                       41.1
FEMALE                  7.0         17.0       18.0/7              41.3                       34.1
VOCATICUA.L ENROL. (2  OF SECONDARY)    0.5             0.8        0.1/c               1.7                       20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              42.0         46.6        54.4/c              37.7                       35.5
SECONDARY                               ..         32.1       37.1/7              20.2                       25.0
ADUILT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         59,7/f          ..       69.7                52.1                       73.1
CONSUyP2T IOS
PASS.ICER CARS PER THOUSAND
PO?ULATION                            0.8           1.1        1.2/c               1.5                        9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PUPILATION                            5.3          14.6       20.6                35.4                      116.5
TV RECEIV'RS PER THOUSAND
FOPULATION                              ..           ..         ..                 3.2                       37.6
NEWSFAeEPE ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATICN                    11.3          14.8        9.7                16.4                       53.7
CINEYA ANNUAL AfTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0/g            7.8/h       ..                 3.6                        2.8
LABOR FOR(.E
TOIAL LABOR FORCE (TI!OUSANDS)    10404.2         11725.1   13884.4
FEMAALE (PERCENT)                    40.1         36.9        35.6                29.5                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   ..         69.9       67.1                70.0                       52.2
INDUS1RY (PERCENT)                     ..          8.0         9.8                15.0                       17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (FERCENT)
TOTAL                                   47.8         42.9       39.9                40.0                       38.5
HAJLE                                   58.0         54.7       51.5                51.8                       50.5
FEMALE                                 37.8          31.3       28.3                23.8                       26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9          1.0        1.1                  1.0                       1.!
INCOME IVSTRIBUTION
PERCENT OU PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGRHST 5 PERCT:NT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/i            ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEM(.LDS  44. 77T         40.0/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.57i            8.o7        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCEI; OF HOUSEhOLDS   16.5/i           21.0/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUJPS
ESTIMATLD ABSOL'UIE POVERTY INCO'iE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       94.0/c             133.8                      194.7
RURAL                                   ..           ..       66.0/7             111.1                      155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       50.0/c                ..                      178.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..       36.0/c                ..                      164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       40.0                43.8                       24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..       40.0                51.7                       41.1
Nor avallable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weiShted arithmetic oes,,s.  Coverage of countries
dcong tle fndicators depends on availrbility of daLa and is not uniforn.
/b   U,lless otherwise roted, data for 1960 refer to any ye.- between 1959 end 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; alI for Most Recent intirute, between 1978 asd 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /c 1975; /f 191,2; /Z 1964; /h 1972; /i 1958, Rangoon.
It3y, 1982



-20 -                                                                     ANNEX I
Haiti   Llth-egb ted d"C. it  dreat                      ..i.t.nt   u itily judged te it*toRiotoe td eettaote, at otawad otto  It  -ott  fle  toay17%ty co            lt
tetont y   ooeh.  oa ot  o  te  ee  o  iteirdti   eftitaniea  ttoita.edHp  tfitottosttg  toaaOtetto -al.Oat.   hedeo  el  rot
tnholed,tefo  to,rl huwtth  orttf dta    tdot   rei   te  odrat rt   -aei  soa    i reoe  ooe    owne
ofotaoho   otr   oop ar   'iLh    om                    011troet  poo              tae'tot.d boo d oihoArc   o   odd.tm                    ehtootoe   frrou
000!to  o  tt  ootietLii  oo   lt   tt  fr  lot  ooooan            t .4th            -    `erg.o  ooa    tgeth  ala.  I"dtaar  ig.ad  an th-.  aoto--  a o    t
0006 lofooceioa a~~~Ae..l                                                      Poaouottot   otooooott.ah-aotot. cctoa,h.  e.M  c'u..o-a     -torooteouoII'(octal,
30?  hi 1201  'OtO  -Ottpot  tato telsog atauteet  erkt proto  cot                 d el cca  re to t-tuid.-uretlbotaeId.  osoa. IrIcd   hatOh
colotet opoti. cootnteot metod ot Worl  lark tolo  11975-t  hoettO ;1979 d004 hbU tol.i citte  no Imn.". eaot':tool fed hay payc  -_  1Yitt ec al
t9raculy I   9a0oclcgae  ofcot  qtotelpi  ;pa.L.0                  91.an.11..can                                 .   -rcilli     `oeunat tn   ac.co   hoc  ococt  toal
ToItal ?rca oct lot-ie   olcctee              P-     fJuy   1960. 1970,  end  lOft                   --dPlIhioti,11.   l  -:,1 1
late.                                                               coetiti Sto~~~~., HP.11Ieodco Iot _rirt APceod-ct;.todi.                      renal-
Ilohit toclatoclooneot  f ooali- te to  i .0900to  oaai  oycia 00;       0laaaohald t netei o  i ioocoof bydttohot ono enna  ucan  quadtt
emt   cora;1960, 1070. end 1910 4.,..0.                                                 ohi -hotald for iootto             " oyta
Poactatuco tractanuote                                                          unereetobsin oh tarwoos par noce - aotat . orOeO, 000 aurel -aoitegicue-~b.-.. 1980  W
tooaolttoo; re.r b:000 -  oran  popolotc  rtoltotuodt at  d0*1c10hir  hpeta  poL too.  Dt .111ch.   odnolcooaa   oneoco
totl  opeoaot a  te td  ea  odchtintocetoteMltotltoyteee           dellostc  eepootey.   eoluai  taloa  ct-rooocto  atcocetor
trjottoreeto    o    otat   cetcnre    l  he  l.ine It .t.t                    .cto-turi...rime
Eah  o"a'  te ahtoeuga    E0 toaeo.eolotoeo                              tl               DLICATIM
taatcoorotlcit-1 _o         , ttlory.r.    Penceo It norowha -uto                         toteta  achaol -  -oe.1     i eat nd0 laete - CIo'll,    ul  ott  ndleto
ant tooh rote  i eqoolcc alo  deo_ net  onoe    lciiooccta                                at.lleot  h e .1   ott atha,oto   ee   070ctao   htttt
ccltttOh,o  ato1 oh  rae-h.    heoto  oftotco    eeoeaic-tcoettcot-ca.ol  o                                                     Zitihi -  oc.ntoeoct;ecc
-rt.                                                                                    wocat oo tf-aoet ltotlooo yort-c  pycord70 eer  Icccooo
leroa Io_          ooloo 1Iloroto.1.....   Ott-lo  Yeor olha  to t.tono ... uotlo                   prontdat opoa.-       cauot.00caer0-h..                  el-    tn   cryoL
oIe  Ial  at  eo-e.                                                                            cattIl   a  12 to 17 Y.leaio   t;ooiaticc    ontttoor 
total oato; 1060, 1970 as  .197  dtt.-                                                         tacL,oda  whto    o tul,O .t.or..o.I    h,           t acuh   otea   adh
--rt ....reItIoad-nowood tebo-  foooer...             aceutad                                                                  i_oteoooeooieucec loe   otc....
no1y; 1960. 1970 tod 1979 tote.                                                              -ltltihe  at      rto,td  -icodeno -loo   etoitetoadt
Poacbotoo lee Ooocatreboteotetl - Ohldrto  I-cO  tetel . tokuoe-eo  111        prtoot to  teutotty  Itoie duoaao Py nocRre oftotolatc aa th
ou  ite   . tdatti   (65 ytca  -o  .tirl at ratoae f eud-yeat 909o-                              t-aoadt IoLe.
lto.1900. 1070,  o   90dt.tutI  eo   oeIoct I,-,L..Yoaoi..a.lai Ia on La 1 dod aoc not
?ooolatoo Irceha iot   Porao  -  oaI tta.reoraeo  ttttd                                       eprenc    htcL1 odut  poott.  0001.  .oid 15  ..oo  a   oto
yiar  cpoalaton  or  900-60, 19Id0  oct..I 1970-9.0..-d....g.
torcito~ ~       ~ ..b to   ntn   oe  ooto      .tt- hoct reo oF ti  oh..  oroe  700-.     I'tOlOOflOt
Icr'..  410960. 19500-040, ad 190-d.                                                       totwnir Cre  io  hoad  oct aa-aooerco   cc-e   c
ynoctao 6 00. 1010, end 100  et.et.bar   eholt
yo.ooI Io;  90.  91.  rc  104_oa.haceototocaarl rit    t   htoaa   apcto     tcce00
Crate Oordcoco9.t-ooattobro  oaeat-na    -ot   tel   --ator to1...taouoo   ooorttan   thr   hnoclootnn 
a 010   oe;oatl    o-a               rite   ot5t   00   Ol   0  190.toorooaueoalu-oed loot
tttol -to-c ionr.tcnocrc.d        oeoelcoool..aaocatcoerone                            T     _ o toIrelce Nhacttdoocoto-1 nriceo  o
ohooh-ooo   .etteoto.olciof.ocoo    .elyprt..ooae                                        aeoot dhaclt          Y.r.loc     . Ioca to;. oocot...t....I01  ecacr
-..1.4.. di  ...-               pcobtaoao  deooIIt trtwrilr to  reoo-n  otee o.. O.  It  i coedet
t000 001 071071100                                                                     00 to~~~~ Id..-4.df..   4  ill   :doiy   of it th.yporet  lto   o   cdwet -tr
ootoo_lanaeprod..car yrIc  togl.ht; 101-WI - 1070. od b160 doot.                               Too-Lao norot F     anoaaao               i..tcoet ly otc    tin . 1cadbccun
*eP   octooncol-             lalarrot acrtoti-ocfarecre    ort.do.-tWtotto  haool..                                                             ticcah--         turo.  t.
0000etciaaab orco  foo  toppl ut         .....let I Intota  pir ..ar.                      controco  p JoLent- oLi oIl acie.  0th..t.ote......c.ocuO   are
ta -ay Uotlhl   orlewcoo  id-sett   prot-oti.. owoil_t notc .terblat  1960. 1910 end 11900 do..
IcoarIod 1eci; 19610  190cO17Itt.10,17  ad10   ee
-wtcrl  o 'fodpray   Ott tP Ply o.  hood.          t  daftod    o   av.                        fctoo7ieeota-oe   tcot.0h   o4ael  loa loo
alboeceaoh90  ott o  ooecproti  pt dy  ot  0  ri   cIeta  ad:0. 190,0..ad 1000 date.  llh.a era bate  o   lOttototoooe
Oc10Fod   tocec  oo-O,w11 oc 1011 deot.                                                          L0 t0   c_lttn   aot
teacOota  roooa oote loo  altt ad cl t -Potl  torrI! cf load dt-
todlc n'o   o  rceet   ri   a  Ot   191ha  :170 to  1011 ceot.                              lot-or cocoitiIce"1
11h1 bat I-t ,      at too  bar othcoooo -d eooo  cr-aa  ret nh.o...ot lo                        ttoce-taaeorbtt  Oc-oa 1 th 00cin cocc -d ol  -  otor   rrtho
arto  bo   aeavi  lot lfe ohltc  100,191-tI  190   ta.-I.at c--et......
loloo Itralcac eae Iten  h..... ol  ~- In1OIo o- h   00 aot.I. -odt-  on   io            tiloa    b.lo- P--rn  Icodlre   10   ocyc..ctrnroo   -
cccii n  tit ltor inrret ob coolocoa -W 19    oo0   cr900 , c   ccl-Oo-                     'tololytoot  loot.olcoottentla   ~cclc   bo                       erot   o
Ito  ot preela  betel.  ooen. cod cotall otnh reatonahba cocaetaaatca  alaerdetlt
astr  opOl Iloicoreoretc   cOto HI    toni L.0 cbraa   o   oonthoo                       etotoRlto  ootyOa                      alol   w   aIa-cro   a   oa
oeaocl  eottbo    roeae  orooe,  p00.  04  o0cet  tlc    e                oE,l-. trbolo ocrt  cocoa.  Lrnec I-
yroaroooeeocoobateyrrhotcncloonne roo.ohoocoeaaccco                pntooaaooonarhtaccrr                 IoooOoo-;o  cocaecootoae.otY
Froeonotleaa    dccoraablaeiroloe    oo                                         raooojtoolothneoocccaotoae
ccnacarotconocttttear.ttacaoeohTooooo                   n.cloet                   ltttdoolooo-ouocororolcoeoc.ctot-ro
cretoa.etbraceeeacIO  lopo  olca  on- oora.     aa-20   f,.oa.c   o  hh. awato           00  ,0001    dj- trto0 icylathigh-    ortw    o   oo)oooeoa
haocoatLoOiocart-aopcatccoa                                   --ctrttc  -aco
ilct    l"Peop,  ono.    Iat.'d 000001 owrctd lot oorta    ,p-tl cI
ot oetoeerhooee-haoot  tyitet  or oat  -  of pIt pooteed et.-
?nololcore  Plycroo   -torcloto  Onidd  y  o~t   o  prlae Ie  lart-Scocoo co  oc cal. cat  t-o c
Metc Roto   bwatdje  ecr"        tact to          b oootlote.l                                                              Irneattyl   00  rlttt   woo
taINoecotolotePnc -tytoboOtdobcaeiolraterc0711



ANNEX I
Page 4
- 21 -
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1981                                   ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH (%, constant prices)
$ Million    %                        1971-76         1976-81         1971-81
GNP at Market Prices               5,571     100.0                        2.1              6.3           4.2
Gross Capital Formation            1,320      23.7                      -1.0              17.4           7.8
Gross National Saving                995      17.9
Foreign Saving a/                    325       5.8
Exports of Goods, NFS b/             472       8.5                      -7.2             15.2            3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS b/             774      13.9                     -10.5             21.3            4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY1981
Value Added                   Labor Force            V. A. Per Worker
$ Million    %                 Million    %                   US$
Agriculture c/                      2,595    46.3                 9.0       66.7               288
Industry d/                           148    13.3                1.3         9.6               575
Services/Trade                      2,263    40.4                3.2 e/   23.7 e/              707
TOTAL                         5,606   100.0                13.5      100.0               415
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                     Union Government
Kyats Million    % of GDP           Kyats Million        % of GOP
FY81           FY81                 FY81             FY81
Current Receipts                           6,978 f/         18.8 f/            5,526             14.8
Current Expenditures                       5,066            13.7               4,945             13.3
Current Surplus                            1,912             5.2                 581               1.6
Capital Expenditures                       6,534 g/         17.6 g/            1,393              3.7
External Assistance (gross)                2,732             7.4
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                             1975        1976       1977       1978        1979       1Q80       1981
(Kyats million outstanding at                         Mar.       Mar.       Mar.        Mar.       Mar.        Mar.       Mar.
end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                                5,342      6,052       6,377      6,631      8,017       9,619      11,21l
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         6,222      6,445       6,213      6,550      7,194       8,990      10,885
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          639         956      1,489      1,706      1,728       1,653       1,651
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                     27.6        25.8       23.6       22.4        25.4       2P.2         3n.2
Conisumer Price Index at Rangoon
(1972 = 100)                                       206.4      252.6      249.7       234.6      247.9      249.4        248.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                     25.9       22.4        -1.1       -6.0        5.6         0.6        -0.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        26.8        3.6       -3.6         5.4        q.8        25.0        21.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       -6.7       49.6        55.8       14.6        1.3        -4.3        -0.1
*All data for FY81 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/  Defined as external current accouLnt balance excluding grants.
b/  Calculated on accrual, not payments, basis.
c/  Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
d/  Includes mining, power, and construction.
e/ Includes workers not elsewhere specified.
f/ Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
g/  Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 5
- 22 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY81)
FY79     FY80      FY81                                                   S Million         _
(US$ Million)
Exports (GNFS)                           260.2    442.3    520.4                 Rice and Rice Products                 205          43
Imports (CNFS)                          602.6    702.4    835.2                  Teak                                   10          21
Resource Balance                       -342.4   -260.1   -314.8                   Base Metals and Ores                   29           6
Animal Feedstuff                        8            2
Net Factor Income                        -13.6    -22.1    -26.2                 All Other Commodities                  127          26
Net Current Transfer                      12.5      15.4      16.5
TOTAL                           478         10O
Current Account Balance                -343.5   -266.8   -324.5
Official Grant Aid                        59.6      65.5      96.2             EXTERNAL DEBT, March 31, 1Q81
Net M&LT Loans                           362.9    362.1    289.0                                                           USS Million
Disbursements                         390.6    421.7    353.3
Repayments                              27.7      59.6     64.3                Outstanding and Disbursed                    1,516.7
Short-term Capital                        -6.7      -5.9      -0.9
Outstanding, including
Net Errors and Omissions                 -14.2    -43.2    -13.5                    Undisbursed                               7,740.2
Overall Balance                           58.1    111.7       46.2
Gross Reserves (end-March)               162.1    258.9    274.8
Net Reserves (end-March)                  62.7    177.3    232.5               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1981                      B
Ratio of debt service to exports of             20.1
goods and services
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1979 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                              IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1982 (US5 Million)
US$1.00  = K 6.52
tBRD        IDA
1980 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                                Outstanding and Disbursed                           212.31
US$1.00  = K 6.76
Undisbursed                                        304.79
1981 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                                Outstanding, including
US$1.00  = K 7.40                                                                   Undisbursed                                      517.10
As of July 31, 1982
SDR 1.00 R K 8.51
US$ 1.00 = K 7.87
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
October 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose                Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
I'hree loans and five credit fully disbursed                33.1    80.1          --
493      1974    Burma   Forestry                           -    24.0         0.52
597      1975    Burma   Livestock                          -     7.5         1.61
642      1976    Burma   Paddyland Development              -    30.0         7.06
686      1977    Burma   Tin and Tungsten                   -    16.0         0.80
745      1977    Burma   Seed Development                   -     5.5         1.26
835      1978    Burma   Paddyland Development II           -    34.5        20.80
879      1978    Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation              -     4.5         2.38
949      1979    Burma   Forestry II                        -    35.0        21.95
958      1979    Burma   Telecommunications II              -    35.0        29.54
1031      1980    Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam             -    90.0        66.16
1092      1981    Burma   Grain Storage a/                   -    23.0        22.80
1114      1981    Burma   Wood Industries I                  -    32.0        29.91
1245      1982    Burma   Power I                            -    80.0        80.00
1253      1982    Burma   Construction Industry I            -    20.0        20.00
Total                                          33.1   517.1
of which has been repaid                     33.1       -
Total now outstanding                             -   517.1
Amount sold                            2.7
of which has been repaid             2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA b/                   -   517.1
Total Undisbursed                                                  304.79
/  Principal amounts showa are computed at the rate applicable on the date of
approval.
b/ Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
- 24 -
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of September 30, 1982) 1/
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
Project implementation is essentially complete. All major sawmill
rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Log production, from project
area in FY79/80, is well over the target for teak and on target for hardwood. Teak
extraction for the year ending March 31, 1980/81, totalled 120,000 HT (target
100,000 HT) and hardwood extraction of 16,000 HT (on target). Project productivity
and profitability are most satisfactory. Project is extended until September 30,
1982, to facilitate the procurement of remaining equipment and spare parts.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30, 1975;
Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The contract for the planning, supply, erection and commissioning of the
Rangoon Milk Plant was awarded to Alfa-Laval of Sweden for a total cost of US$2.273
million. Civil works construction is proceeding satisfactorily and estimated
completed date of the plant is June 1983. LDMC continues to concentrate its efforts
on the farm at Pyinmabin. The Animal Husbandry and Veterinlary Science Department
continues to perform its functions under the project satisfactorily. The Institute
of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science has held its first graduation ceremony
at the new campus at Yezin but the recruitment of consultant lecturers and its
fellowship training program still lags behind schedule because of inadequate
facilities on the new campus. Overseas training is progressing satisfactorily.
Completion date of the project has been extended to June 1983.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project has suffered a delay of about two years due to late procurement
of construction equipment at the outset of implementation. Construction progress
has been satisfactory since the arrival of this equipment. Approximately 66% of
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do not pur-
port to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
- 25 -
civil works had been completed by end 1981. Land reclamation is proceeding at a
satisfactory rate, and it is estimated that some 31,000 ac had been reclaimed by
esnd 1981, representing about 50% of the project target. The hydrological inves-
tigations and mathematical modeling have been completed to the extent specified and
final reports submitted. It is anticipated that physical works under the project
will be completed by May 1984, and a request to extend the closing date for the
credit is awaited.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The dredge is in the process of start-up, having completed delivery tests.
Short-term operating plans for the dredge are being prepared by Mining Corporation
No. 2 (MC2). MC2 has taken measures to speed up procurement of spare parts to
avoid future delays of dredge operations, such as the mooring winch motor which has
::esulted in a delay of about 4 months. In addition, MC2 has also increased its
efforts in training by sending selected staff to Malaysia. GOB advised the Bank it
wqould let us know at the earliest how they wish to utilize $200,000 allocated for a
sector study.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Procurement, civil works, applied research, seed production, and seed
quality control continue to make satisfactory progress. Staff is now 88% of full
strength and is adequate until the seed processing plants are completed. The
proposal to make temporary staff appointments permanent is now with the Council of
State. Overseas training is gaining momentum but the project will probably have to
be extended by one year, possibly 18 months, to accommodate previous delays.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The project is proceeding broadly according to schedule. Approximately 16%
cf the civil works had been completed by end 1981, including one sub-project area
(Bawchaung) which is nearing completion. Land reclamation is proceeding at a
satisfactory rate, and it is estimated that some 17,000 acres had been reclaimed by
end 1981, representing about 35% of the project target. The allocation of



ANNEX II
Page 4
- 26 -
reclaimed land for settlement is awaiting completion of the necessary surveys, and
is a little delayed. The agricultural extension service and other components of
the project are progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that the physical works
of the project will be completed on schedule in June 1986.
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The rehabilitation of the COB rubber estates is proceeding well. The pace
of implementation has recovered from the unfortunate death of the general manager
in 1980. The new general manager, appointed in September 1980, is an experienced
and dynamic manager capable of motivating the manageraent team. Rubber plantings in
the 1980/81 seasons exceeded the target. The civil works program after two years
is only three months behind schedule. Disbursements plus commitments total
approximately $2.1 million versus the SAR estimate of $3.4 million for the same
period. GOB has agreed to proceed with the conversion of the crumb rubber factory
into a 20 T/D crumb mill processing scrap. GOB will request a reallocation of the
Credit to provide adequate funds for the plant conversion. They will also request
an extension of the Credit closing date to allow for completion of the plant con-
version and also consolidate and upgrade the plantations to achieve target acreage.
The Rubber Section is now preparing the second phase of the project.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II (East Pegu Yoma) Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Production targets for 1981/82 have been attained. Procurement is behind
the SAR schedule. However, in view of the total amount committed currently a
substantial improvement on procurement is expected. Rehabilitation of the existing
sawmills and the construction of new sawmills are progressing satisfactorily. The
current shortage of staff is expected to be remedied shortly, following the removal
of government's ban on recruitment.
Cr. No. 958    Second Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The project, after a slow start caused by delay in the creation of the
project implementation unit and consequent delays in procurement action, is now
picking up momentum. Overall the project is expected to suffer a delay of a year
and a half. Financial results continue to be satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1031   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project; US$90.0 Million
Credit of November 4, 980; Effective Date: November 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 5
- 27 -
The Credit was signed in Rangoon on November 4, 1980, and declared effec-
tive on November 19, 1980. The ICB civil works contract was signed by COB and
Hyundai on June 24, 1981. A contract was also signed with Lahmeyer International
(FRG) in January 1981 for consulting services for definite design and construction
supervision on dam, powerhouse, and appurtenant structures. The progress of works
under the civil works contract is on schedule. Labor camp, workshops, stores,
contractors camp, site roads and diversion tunnel excavation already completed.
Consultants for Irrigation Works Component have been appointed (ILACO-Netherland)
while negotiations for consultants for analysis of risks and related insurance are
in progress with Risk Planning Group, and list of selected candidates for
short-term specialists being finalized by Agriculture Corporation. Delivery of
equipment (financed under Japanese assistance) expected by end-1982. Contracts
have been signed for (i) hydraulic steel structures (Lots 2A and 2B) with Zschokke
Wartmann and Noell respectively; (ii) mechanical equipment Lot 3 with Voith; and
(iii) a panel of experts.
Cr. No. 1092   Grain Storage Project; SDRs 17.9 Million Credit of February 6,
1981; Effective Date: May 4, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
A Project Implementation Unit has been established within AFPTC and a
Project Coordinator has been assigned in CC to coordinate civil works aspects of
the new storage construction. A Project Coordination Committee has been estab-
lished to ensure effective overall coordination in project implementation.
Consultants have beetn employed to assist AFPTC in planning and implementing
procurement of prefabricated steel structures and mechanical handling equipment.
Tender documents are being finalized. Construction of foundations for first set of
godowns is underway.
Cr. No. 1114   Wood Industries I Project; SDRs 25.8 Million Credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 25, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project was prepared by the Timber Corporation with assistance from the
FAO/CP. The project was appraised in June 1980. FINNIDA is co-financing the
technical assistance and training component of the project (about $2.0 million).
An IDA Credit ($32 million) was approved by the Board on March 17, 1981, and was
signed on Mlarch 26, 1981. The Credit became effective on June 25, 1981. The Grant
Agreement between Burma and Finland and the Mlemorandum of Agreement between IDA and
Finland were signed on November 23, 1981. Project procurement is on schedule.
Most of the equipment for plywood mills and the furniture factory have been
ordered.
Cr. No. 1245 Power Project; SDRs 70.1 Million Credit of June 28, 1982;
Effective Date: September 28, 1982; Closing Date:
April 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 6
- 28 -
The project would help establish an integrated approach to the development
of the Electric Power Corporation's (EPC) transmission facilities and contribute to
improving the efficiency of EPC's power system. The project would comprise: (i)
132 kV transmission line: Chauk-Taungdwingyi (110 miles); (ii) 132 kV transmission
line: Mann-Taungdwingyi (65 miles); (iii) 230 kV transmission line: Taungdwin-
gyi-Rangoon (250 miles); and (iv) associated sub-station facilities. Consultancy
services and training have been provided for undertaking Tariff Study recommenda-
tion, improving planning and system losses.
Cr. No. 1253 Construction Industry Project; SDRs 18 Million Credit of
June 28, 1982; Effective Date: September 28, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would be a first phase aimed at strengthening and further
developing the capability of the construction industry, to enable it to undertake
efficiently an increasing volume of development work. Under the project, the
operations of CC, which undertakes 70% of all State construction work, will be
strengthened in selected field operations leading to improvement in overall road
production. Later phases will attempt to strengthen CC, as a whole, so that in due
course CC is able to compete in ICB both within and outside Burma. The project
consists of:
(a) setting up three working units, two for road rehabilitation
and one for road maintenance, and provision of vehicles
and mechanical equipment, with spares;
(b)  provision of workshop equipment and tools to carry out field
maintenance and repairs to strengthen the capacity of base
workshops to repair project equipment;
(c) supply of survey, design, and office equipment required for
the units; and
(d) technical assistance to establish and assist: with the
operation of the units, including the introduction of costing,
cost control and cost analysis of works, and the improvement
of quality control and work planning and management.



ANNEX III
Page 1
- 29 -
BURMA
TANK IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the Project
2 years
(b) Agencies preparing the Project
Irrigation Department (Ministry of Agriculture) assisted
by FAO/CP
Hous,ing Department (Ministry of Construction)
General Affairs Department (Ministry of Home and Religious
Affairs)
Agricultural Corporation
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association
November 1981
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission
November 1981
(e) Date of completion of Negotiations
November 1982
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness
January 1983
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None



ANNEX III
Page 2
- 30 -
Section III:    Special Condition
The appointment of Project Director and the two
subproject Managers (Section 6.01 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).



BRD 16262
To7  Tr,u9d-d9Y,,   95"36                                                                                                      95404                                                                                                                                       r 't      APRIL  1982
BURMA                                                                                                                                    ,NI
20000         t                                                                                   TANK  IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                             20000 IIRAO     PROJFCT                   CHINA
T4yoonyh~nhI4                                                                  KINMUNDAUNG  SUBPROJECT                                                                                                                                       0ANG E
i Nyaor,yb,nhla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BN\DS             UHMA             t_r
Prorposed I rrigable Area                                                                                                                                                   A
Main Canals                                                                                                                                                 p- pj           '
Secondary Canoa s                                                                                                                                           A,oa 
- -         Tertnary Canals                                                                                                                                           9 
- 1  Bongrn                                                                            _    _    Drains d                                                                                                                                                               )THAILAND
Proposed  Da.  -cd  Resewvoir
E,ist,ng Roads                                                                                                                                        sr >LN
Roads for Rehabditation
t \                                                                           f New  Roans
T                                                              -r--- ,-s--  ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  ~      ~~~~~~~~~Railways  2L  3dmn  ~
_                                                                                                                                              ARiverr, KILOMETFR5datdO Se,
0                                                                                                               ~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  2
Rin-,=: ,t,jV:>  Vl agers                               n                    MILES
t         Nyaonqwio                '--                                                                                                                                                                                         OvNoarn,,n Forest Resenmve
>  o----  t  \            --                               V ~~~~~~~~~Slmidiungyi     <A..4-                                                                                                                              
-19050'        Ch-ngt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 95
To Al1Nnmyo   9533'   Fo pyrnUlerld                                       95140'                                  ~'                                                                 95144'                                                L
Kinrldau-
'~~~~~"0~~~                                   I I                         v~~~~~~~~oJyv O C/        F'                                               0                    /~~~~DI ER IO
-             /Th,onnensooee,eovres'0aaoWEIRvo,s,Ko,,eI'll,oe
Tanb noon                                                                                           seerooo,ce OtS~~~~~Cfl 5,ovooe,AMs
Ra 8:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~2
19'52'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19'52 954
T. AITo-y,            53             To P'y,or,--95 4'



I                                                                                                                            I            I



IBRD 16263
97039                                  BURMA 'i97404                                                          97042' To Mc/oi,n                                  9744'                                                            MARCH 1982
IN IA             CHINA
TANK IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                              \7  /
AZIN SUBPROJECT
\BAN140DESH                C 1
\  PROPOSED DAM AND RESERVOIR                                                                                                                                                              BURMA
\j7fl :-RPROPOSED  IRR GABLE AREA   UPLANDIORCHARDS)                             t                                      \1
\   v '9i921 PROPOSED IRRIGABLE AREAS   LOWLAND(PADDY)                                                                    \
MAIN CANAL                                                                                                                                                                                        I ITHAILAND
-SECONDARY CANALS                                                                    '1                          I .'                                  ,                                       *
TERTIARY CANALS                                                                  ttaliecT   .       .'.                                          -                                        nrctrt
--        DRAINS                                                                                                 -J                                                                                  Loon a   I Bangkok
ROADS
/90                               ~~~~~~~RDAD UNDERCONSTRUJCTION                           7/>.y"                                     /118 18-
8  ----  fRAILWAYS 
/ ~~~.                                                         7 ,:' ..A .,        Muo"ov
-'--RIVERS                            s't.>/>                               ~'
/-                                                                                                                                 :'oct:VILLAGES  , ,: /   /  -    '  < $  N  , 
<'7          /7   K4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kh4,en ~~~~~~~~This map has bee prepard by the
7/    /                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wenld Bank' staff -oo/s,vely far
/                                  7KI/7                       77METERS tHe eenence of te: rtade  of
/7               /      /                                                                                                the rpare to  hh it is ett he d: it   t
7/                               /0                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The desoinatian acd and she
/./&xu.Ao4rR1ls/VxnRQr\                                        '                                       hacadacec sw  an this map
~~~  4t//)~~~~~~~~....,,,7t/'                               * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dee-timply, -nthe partofthe
y7    fr ,~~~~~~~~~  ,/A77//'>  7                     , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank and it affhata- any
~~~    '7.7   77,'7//"/7                                 K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jsdgment an the legal statoc af
asy t-ritay cc any sdnre-m-t
oracptac- of na-h bnndarien
7/                              _        EeocRoost                                   .~~~~~~~~g,-f-(Ro
A           ,                                                                                                                                   
/1                                                                                                                                                          d Eo-i  H 7To
.  /                                       fi0l,nqi/Yiclt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST
~~~~"''  /4/            /5/7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-t
/  Y'7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o
KI LOMETERS ~ ~   ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ 77
0  1  2~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odEtniy lcp6lr 
KILOEERS
97'38r                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~97404'                                      97c42'                       9T 4T c.T.rc                                                                  9/046'



-  K                                                 w     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 16388
97043.                                                                            97044'                                                                                                                                                APRIL 1962
Tn Mop/,o!/iT
-16016'.     8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             160T6.
t                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ W1ater Tnrra,,',onr
-  To Mooulmtto                             30l
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                    P !,  4.0.Da.O it
OR Saot,oo    f,,  -                         7316    \1 R1 _OP , v S                                                                                *X          _
R . R.         _ _    S                          -L                         '<i .                               3
D0EN3/1AL ARE    JX 
8,349 
-Al~~~~~~a
wt~o i A;9i \\ rg t S X t i 1 8.346 4 . | \BURMA
'.,""'"'j    '  '(3) tlL=t t'.''.'''.            3 1                                          - --.\           TANK   IRRIGATION   PROJECT
-16195'  /S: i3r v' i,, -.  f,,  g  ,,,.  i, ,w i                                                        \        MUDON  TOWN  WATER  SUPPLY
4  0,~~ '-  1TASMSSONMiNI1'lS  da
PRIMARY MAINS(6" i2" di-);
SECONDARY MAINS(3"-4'4,dia.
.\   6f'f                        it-  i         ,8     5      -.                 ..                            RUBBER PLANTAT/ONS                       )U                       WATER TREATMENT PLANT
PUMPING STATION
-  PROPOSED DAM AND RESERVOIR
16,226                    \                                                                                                                                     ELEVATED SERVICE RESERVO)IR
97043'.\EN !<<f 1 i;1 a                                                                                                                                                                a...' .   ,,,, P FUTURE RESIDENTIAL AREAS
CHINA    6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                I                                                                         j              -         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESIDENTIAL AREA BOUNDARIES
INDIA    )        CHINA                                   PADDY FIELDS   '2)                                                                                                                                    WARD NUMBERS
r . 0                       |'Il                                  oj                                                            f        \       , :\ -|7,193  P OPULATION
71'  ~~~~~~~~0<            ..*                                                                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~'--a-- ~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
BANGLPiDESH                                     gts                                                                                                                                                                  | 0 v  tj .  ,  , X '-L -  RAIVERYS
BURM.A                         .                                        ,
0         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~WARD BOUNDARIES
kT#lAILAND                                                                                                                 0 '4, t'x', Ll --- - =- AZonastey > ROAD  UNDERCONSTRUCTION
KI6IAILAND                                                                                                                                                                      6       269    4193     BO      806    1060
Raaaaoo!                                                             a                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
ToelyoOn 8i5)aba'oooEo!S50    200    400    600    800    1000
Project All                                                                                                To Th-b4,00e
97| Thi  mep  has  5p-  ed  bV  th'44rh,ooo.,oI,adom;m,,oao us                                      d                           andaIo,-
z                  ~~~~~~~To To                                  97044'                                                                             9745



