Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H569-TJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For Education Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 25, 2010  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H569-TJ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 25, 2010, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
TAJIKISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,400,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Part B.3 of the Project through MoE in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Recipient has adopted the Project Operational Manual for the Project in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.03. 
For the purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which 
the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing 
for payment obligations) shall terminate in twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
3 Akademikov Rajabovikh Ave. 
 Dushanbe, 
734025 
Republic of Tajikistan  
 
Facsimile:  
 
(992-372) 213329 
Page  4
3
5.03. The 
Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Safarali Najmiddinov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Chiara Bronchi 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to set the stage for change at 
the national level while improving learning conditions and school enrollment and 
completion through Grade 5 in selected districts. 
The Project consists of the Original Project, with modifications as set forth 
below:  
1. 
The Original Project
’s objective, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement, is amended in the following manner to read consistently with the 
objective of this Project: 
“The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to set the stage for change at the 
national level while improving learning conditions and school enrollment and completion 
through Grade 5 in selected districts.” 
2. 
Part B.3 of Schedule 2 to said Original Financing Agreement is amended to read 
as follows: 
“3. 
Provision of goods, works and services for the construction of a National Testing 
Centre (NTC), including provision of equipment and goods to support the operation of 
said NTC, as well as provision of consultants’ services and training to staff of NTC to 
improve student assessment systems, and to promote participation of the school 
communities through local data collection in the selected districts.” 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements and Implementation Covenants 
1. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall implement Part B.3 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.  
 
2. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive 
any provisions of the Project Operational Manual, without prior approval of the 
Association. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards 
 
1.  
Prior to the commencement of any works under the Project, the Recipient shall 
prepare an EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall: (i) upon development of the design for the 
NTC to be constructed under Part B.3 of the Project, prepare and adopt an EMP for the 
works to be carried out under said Part B. 3, and submit the EMP to the Association for 
its review and approval; (ii) carry out the Project in accordance with provisions of the 
EMP and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of the EMP, 
without prior approval of the Association; and (iii) include adequate information on the 
implementation of the EMP in the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this 
Schedule. 
 
3. 
The Recipient, through MoE, shall ensure that all measures identified and 
described in the EMP are taken in a timely manner while carrying out works under Part 
B.3 of the Project. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Page  7
6
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than forty 
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 Consultants
’
Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Page  8
7
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding for goods and works, subject to the additional 
provisions set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
 
(b) Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
Page  9
8
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1)  Works for Part 
B.3  of the Project 
 
900,000 100% 
(2) Goods and 
consultants’ services 
for Part B.3 of the 
Project 
 
450,000 100% 
(3) Operating costs 
    50,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,400,000
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “operating costs” means incremental 
operating expenditures incurred by the Recipient, through MoE, on account of Project 
implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation, salaries of contractual staff, 
office rent, office maintenance, office repairs, communication costs, support for 
information systems, translation costs, bank charges, and travel and per diem costs of 
MoE’s staff involved in the implementation of the Project, including other reasonable 
expenditures directly associated with the implementation of the Project, as may be agreed 
upon by the Association, all based on an annual budget acceptable to the Association, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
Page  10
9
(b) 
under Category 1 for Project activities relating to Part B.3 of the Project, 
until the Recipient, through MoE, shall have prepared, disclosed and furnished to the 
Association, and to the satisfaction of the Association, the Environmental Management 
Plan in respect of works to be undertaken by the Recipient. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 31, 2013.
 
Page  11
10 
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
National competitive bidding procedures of the Recipient may be used for 
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are 
complied with: 
 
1.  
Works, for which this Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Law of the Republic o
f
Tajikistan “
n
Public Procurement of Goods, Works and 
Services”, dated March 3, 2006 (“the Law”).  These provisions, in order to ensure 
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions included in 
Section I of the Guidelines (as required by paragraphs. 3.3 of the Guidelines), shall be 
applied as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Entity responsible for carrying out the procurement
2.  
The procurement shall be carried out by the “procuring entity” as defined in 
Article 9 of the Law, without any involvement of the Authorized Body on Public 
Procurement (i.e. in accordance with Article 3 of the Law). 
 
Participation in bidding
3.  
Government-owned enterprises in Tajikistan shall be eligible to participate in 
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, 
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the procuring entity (as 
defined in the Law). 
 
4.  
Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as local bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign shall be 
granted to local bidders in bid evaluation. 
 
Advertising: time for bid preparation
5.  
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national 
newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of 
bids. 
 
Standard bidding documents
6.  
Until a modified version of the Recipient’s standard bidding documents has been 
approved by the Association, the Association’s sample NCB bidding documents for the 
Europe and Central Asia Region shall be used.   
 
Page  12
11 
Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria
7.  
Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and 
criteria so specified, and only
 
criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a 
bidder is qualified. Bids of bidders not meeting such criteria shall be rejected as non-
qualified. Qualifications of a bidder found to meet the specified qualification criteria shall 
not be taken
 into account in the evaluation of such a bidder’s bid. 
 
8.  
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Evaluation 
criteria so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit 
points shall not be used in bid evaluation. 
 
Bid security
9. 
For the procurement of goods and works, bidders shall be required to submit a 
bid security in the amount and in the form specified in the bidding documents, unless 
otherwise agreed with the Association.  A bid security in the form of an advance bank 
transfer shall not be allowed. 
 
Bid submission and bid opening
10.  
Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand.  Bids shall be opened immediately 
after the deadline for bid submission in the presence of the bidders who wish to attend. 
Said deadline and the place of bid opening shall be announced in the invitation to bid.  
The name of each bidder and the amount of its bid, shall be read aloud and recorded 
when opened in the minutes of bid opening.  The minutes of bid opening shall be signed 
by the members of the bidding committee immediately after bid opening. 
 
11.  
Bids received after the deadline for bid submissions shall be returned to the 
bidders unopened. 
 
Bid evaluation and award of contracts
12.  
Bidders shall not be allowed to be present during bid evaluation, and no 
information relating to the evaluation of bids shall be disclosed to bidders until the 
successful bidder is notified of the award. 
 
13.  
A bid containing material deviations from or reservations to the terms, conditions 
and specifications of the bidding documents shall be rejected as not substantially 
responsive. A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or 
reservations once bids have been opened. 
 
Page  13
12 
14. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the 
bidding documents, and contracts should be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the 
lowest evaluated and substantially responsive bid. 
 
15.  
A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations 
not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
16.  
There shall be no post-bidding negotiations between the purchaser and the lowest 
or any other bidder. 
 
Page  14
13 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the environmental 
management plan prepared by the Recipient and satisfactory to the Association in 
respect of works to be undertaken by the Recipient under the Project, as the same 
may be amended and supplemented from time to time with the Association’s 
prior written approval. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
6. 
“MoE” means the Ministry of Education of the Recipient. 
7. 
 “Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Financing Agreement 
for the Education Modernization Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated July 11, 2003 (Credit No. 3759-TJ; Grant No. H037-TJ). 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
9. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 12, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
11. 
“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means Project operational manual 
adopted pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement by the Recipient, describing 
Page  15
14 
procedures for implementation of the project, consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement and including, 
inter alia
,
procedures governing the 
administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, auditing, and 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the Project; as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.”
 
