Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T7444-TA
TANZANIA: LOWER KIHANSI ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
MAY 29, 2001
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS1.00 = TSh 827
(March 14,2001)
FISCAL YEAR
July to June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONYMS
DOE       Division of Environment, Vice President's Office
DOW       Division of Wildlife, Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism
FBD       Forestry and Beekeeping Division, Ministry of Natural
Resources and Tourism
ILFEMP   Institutional and Legal Framework for Environmental
Management Project
IREMS    Immediate Rescue and Emergency Measures Project
LKEMP   Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project
LRMC    Long Run Marginal Cost
MEM       Ministry of Energy and Minerals
MNRT    Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
MWLD    Ministry of Water and Livestock Development
NACC    National Amphibian Conservation Center
NEMC    National Environment Management Council
RBWO    Rufiji Basin Water Office
Tanesco   Tanzania Electric Supply Company
WCS       Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF       World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director   James W. Adams
Sector Manager     Roger C. Sullivan
Task Team Leader   Peter A. Dewees



Tanzania: Lower Kihansi Environmental Management
Technical Assistance Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .....................................................1
Background ........................................................I
ProjectArea ............ ............................................2
The Eastern Arc Mountains ........................................................                  ..2
Kihansi Gorge Ecosystem ..........................................................3
Kihansi Spray Toad ...... ..................................................4
Conservation Measures .........................................................                                              5
Project Objectives and Components .......................................................                            .7
O)bjectives ............................                                                     .               .     7
Component 1: Habitat and species conservation and management ........................................................7
Component 2: Establishment of final water right                         ...                            ............................. 10
Component 3: Implementing an Updated Environmental Management Plan  ........................................................ 13
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening .................        ......................................... 14
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................                         16
Institutional Arrangements ......................................................                                              16
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management ............................................,,.,.,,.,., ... 17
Procurement Arrangements .............................................                                                      17
Disbursement Arrangements ............................................. 20
Financial Management .............................................                                                         21
Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................................                                                          23
Main Credit Conditions ...........................................                                                             23
SCHEDULES ..........................................                                                                              25
Schedule A: Key ProjectActivities ...........................................                                                  25
M AP   .. . .  .  .   . .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  . .  .  .   .  .  . .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  . .  .   .  .  .28






Tanzania: Lower Kihansi Environmental Management
Technical Assistance Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECrION A: DETAILED PROJECr DESCRIPTION
Background
1.     The Tanzania Power VI project was approved in 1993 (Credit 2489-TA), and has funded
the construction of a 180 MWV hydroelectric facility in south central Tanzania. The facility,
located in the Lower Kihansi Gorge, is operated by the Tanzania Electric Supply Company
(Tanesco). The Lower Kihansi facility started producing power in December 1999, and
currently, three turbines are in operation.
2.      The Lower Kihansi Hydropower Project is a run-of-the-river operation. The scheme
incorporates a 25 m high dam, which results in the inundation of about 26 ha when the reservoir
is full.' The dam diverts water into a tunnel which leads to the power generating station. The
project takes advantage of the change in elevation through the Kihansi Gorge, which drops
nearly 900 meters over 3 km. The water is returned to the river about 6 km downstream.
3.      An Environmental Assessment of the project was carried out in 1992, and Government
agreed to prepare and implement an Environmental Management Plan. Because of the small size
of the inundation area, the environmental impact of the dam was expected to be minimal. The
Management Plan focused primarily on mitigating the upstream impacts on the inundation area
and on the communities living in the vicinity of the project. A series of Baseline Studies and a
long-term ecological monitoring program was financed by the project. By late 1995, it was
concluded that - contrary to earlier views - the diversion of water for the hydroelectric scheme
was likely to have an environmental impact on vegetation on both sides of the 6 km stretch of the
river which passed through the Gorge. In particular, the Baseline studies demonstrated the
importance of the fine spray from the Kihansi Falls for maintaining the microclimate in the
Gorge ecosystem.2
The reservoir has a total capacity of around 1.6 million m3, and the water detention time is around 12 hours. The power
project was originally designed to provide power to meet peak load demands, but is now operated in a manner which
provides base load.
2   The maintenance of sufficient flows through the Gorge to conserve the ecosystem was considered in the recently completed
Power Sector Master Plan (Acres International, November 2000) which concluded that maintenance of a 2 mV/second
bypass flow reduces average projected power production at Kihansi by 11 percent; 4 m3/second bypass flow reduces
average projected power production by 23 percent; and 7 m3/second bypass flow reduces average projected power
production by 40 percent. The corresponding reduced total system average production would be 4, 8, and 13 percent
respectively, representing possibly significant investments in generating capacity to account for these shortfalls.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                         2
Technical Annex
Project Area
The Eastern Arc Mountains
4.    The Lower Kihansi Gorge is located in the Eastern Arc Mountains. The Eastern Arc
Mountains are a group of mountains which stretch from southeast Kenya through south central
Tanzania and are situated between 3020' and 8°45'S latitude and 35037' and 38048' E longitude.
They consist of the Taita Hills in Kenya, and the Pare, Usambara, Nguru, Ukaguru, Rubeho,
Uluguru, Mahenge, Malundwe, and Udzungwa Mountains in Tanzania. Their age, geologic
origin, and proximity to the Indian Ocean are features which separate them from other highland
regions in East Africa. These same features have also contributed to their very diverse and
unique biota, which is quite distinct from the adjacent savannah and woodland habitats in East
Africa.
5.    The total area of natural forest in the Eastern Arc is approximately 5,344 km2 or 0.6
percent of the area of Tanzania. The Udzungwa Mountains contain the greatest area of natural
forest followed by the Nguru, Uluguru, Rubeho, and East Usambara Mountains. Nearly three-
quarters of the remaining natural forest in the Eastern Arc is open forest - forest in which the
canopy is not intact and contiguous.
6.    The total area of closed forest - forest in which the canopy is generally intact and
contiguous - in the Eastern Arc is slightly more than 1,451 km2 or approximately 0.2 percent of
the area of Tanzania. The Udzungwa and East and West Usambara Mountains contain the
greatest amount of closed forest. Species diversity and endemism is higher in closed, rather than
in open, natural forest in the Eastern Arc Mountains.
7.    The Eastern Arc forests have the highest known number of plant and animal species of
any region in Tanzania. Approximately 27 percent of the plant species, 63 percent of the
linyphiid spider species, 43 percent of butterfly species, 33 percent of amphibian species, 37
percent of the reptile species, 37 percent of the bird species, and 34 percent of the mammal
species found in Tanzania occur in these forests.
8.   In addition to being species rich, what is particularly striking about the Eastern Arc is the
unusually high rate of species endemicity. The Eastern Arc contains one of the highest
proportions of endemic species of any region worldwide. Of the known species occurring within
the Eastern Arc, approximately 23 percent of montane plant species, 82 percent of linyphiid
spider species, 39 percent of the butterflies species, 63 percent of the forest dependent amphibian
species, 68 percent of the forest dependent reptile species, 3 percent of the bird species, and 6
percent of the mammal species are endemic.
9.    Over the last 2,000 years, the Eastern Arc has lost over three-quarters of its original forest
cover, estimated at around 23,300 km2. Much of this loss has occurred during the last 200 years
due to a dramatic increase in human population and technological change. The Eastern Arc
Mountains that have suffered the highest proportional losses of original forest cover are the Taita
Hills, Ukaguru, Mahenge, and Nguru Mountains.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                       3
Technical Annex
10.   The Eastern Arc is also the habitat for the majority of the globally critically endangered,
endangered, and vulnerable mammal, bird, and tree species found in mainland Tanzania. Eighty-
six percent of all mammal species and 90 percent of all bird species listed by IUCN (1996) as
either critically endangered, endangered, or vulnerable in mainland Tanzania are found in the
Eastern Arc forests. Furthermore, approximately 52 percent of the globally threatened tree
species occurring in Tanzania are found in the Eastern Arc Mountains.
11.   As a result of the extensive threats facing the Eastern Arc forests and their exceptionally
high concentrations of endemic species, the Eastern Arc and the coastal forests of Tanzania and
southern Kenya have been identified as one of the 25 most threatened ecosystems worldwide -
one of the so-called global biodiversity hot spots. The Eastern Arc Mountains and coastal forests
of Tanzania and Kenya have the highest ratio of endemic plant and vertebrate species per 100
km2 of all 25 biodiversity hot spots.
Kihansi Gorge Ecosystem
12.   The Kihansi gorge is located in the Eastern Arc, along the eastern escarpment of the
southern Udzungwa Mountains. The gorge, created by the Kihansi River is approximately 4 km
in length and 0.5 km in width. The Kihansi River, as it flows through the gorge, plunges over a
series of waterfalls and rapids. The main Upper Falls at the head of the steeped-sided gorge is
over 100 m in height and the Lower Falls is approximately 30 m in height. There are several
other smaller falls in the gorge which are between 10 and 30 m in height.
13.   The gorge contains four major vegetation types: miombo woodland, montane forest,
Filicium forest, and wetland spray meadow with a respective area of approximately 95 ha, 100
ha, 0.25 ha, and 2.0 ha.
14.   More than 23 plant species occur in the Kihansi gorge that are either globally threatened
or are species having regional and global conservation importance. Three of these species - a
wild coffee (Coffea sp.), a species in the Acanthaceae family, and species in the Triuridaceae
family - are known only from the Kihansi Gorge and have not yet been formally described.
While it is possible that these three species occur outside of the Kihansi Gorge, further field
work is needed to establish their distribution and abundance.
15.   Sixteen bird species occur in the Kihansi Gorge that are of conservation concern. Seven
of these species are globally or regionally threatened or near-threatened. All of these species
have much large populations outside of the Gorge. If local populations of these species within
the gorge were to become extinct, it should not affect the global populations of these species
because of the very small size of the Kihansi Gorge populations.
16.   Six species of primate occur in the Kihansi Gorge. Of these species, the Uhehehe Red
Colubus is of conservation concern. The Uhehehe Red Colubus has much large populations
outside of the Kihansi Gorge. The long-term population viability of the Uhehehe Red Colubus in
the Udzungwa Mountains can be enhanced by developing a landscape-wide conservation
strategy for the Kihansi Gorge in the context of the Udzungwa Mountains.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                       4
Technical Annex
17.    Surveys that have been conclucted to date of small mammals, fish, and insects have found
that species of these taxa have broadi geographic distributions outside of the of the Kihansi Gorge
and thus should not be adversely affected by alteration in patterns of discharge through the
gorge.
18.    The total area of natural forest in the Udzungwa Mountains is 2,103 km2 of which 389
km2 is closed forest. Approximately 89 percent of the original forest cover in the Udzungwa
Mountains has been lost (mostly in the last 200 years). The remaining natural forest in the
Udzungwa Mountains is highly fragmented with a median patch size of 9 km2. The montane
forest in the Kihansi Gorge is one of the smallest patches of natural forest in the Udzungwa
Mountains. Many plant and animal species in the Udzungwa Gorge face additional long-term
risks of extinction as a result of habitat isolation and area effects.
19.    There is modest agricultural settlement upstream  of the Gorge in the catchment area.
Agriculture in much of the catchment is carried out on steeply sloping hillsides, without terracing
or other soil conservation measures. Soils are unstable and prone to erosion. Agriculture, as well
as the loss of forest cover in the catchment, poses additional management challenges for the
Gorge ecosystem  because of increased sedimentation and irregular streamflow  which is an
outcome.
Kihansi Spray Toad
20.    In late 1996, the Kihansi Spray Toad (Nectophrynoides asperginis) was discovered in the
Kihansi Gorge. It was formally described as a new  species in mid-1998. Using recently
established IUCN risk criteria, the authors describing the Kihansi Spray Toad proposed that it
should be listed as critically endangered because of its highly restricted geographic distribution:
it is known only from four wetland meadow sites within the Kihansi Gorge. Though the Kihansi
Spray Toad is not currently included in IUCN's Red List of critically endangered species
(published listings are only made every four years), the entire genus, Nectophrynoides, is listed
Table 1: Immediac and source of threats to habitats and s ecies in the Kihansi Go
Short-termn    wetland spray    Kihansi Spray   reduction in natural    reduction in wctland
meadow          Toad           spray                 habitat, increased risk of
predation disease, and
problems of small
population size
(demographic, genetic,
environmental
stochasticity)
Medium-tern    wetland spray    Kihansi Spray   reduction in natural    loss of habitat, desiccation
meadow,         Toad           spray resulting in drier  of montanc forest;
montane forest   Coffea sp.    conditions; increased   increased risk of fire
Triurid sp.    risk of fire; reservoir
Acanthid sp.    flushing regime
Long-term       wetland spray    multiple plant   reduction in natural    loss of habitat + isolation +
meadow,         and animal     spray + isolation +   area effects
montane forest   species       area effects         __    -



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Mantagement Project                              5
Technical Annex
in CITES Appendix I as endangered.
21.   The breeding biology of the Kihansi Spray Toad, as well as its very localized spatial
distribution, are factors that make it particularly prone to human disturbance. The Kihansi Spray
toad is oviviparous or live-bearing and thus the fecundity of this species is low in comparison to
egg-laying species.
22.   The Kihansi Spray Toad has one of the smallest geographic ranges - approximately 2.0
ha - of any tetrapod, worldwide. In addition, all of the sub-populations are located along a 4 - 5
km stretch of the Kihansi River. This species is highly vulnerable to extinction due to a
catastrophic event such the introduction of a predator, competitor, disease or the severe alteration
of its habitat.
23.   As a result of the reduction of water flow through the gorge and isolation and area
effects, multiple habitats and plant and animal species in the Kihansi Gorge face increasing
threats. In the short term, the wetland spray meadows and the Kihansi Spray Toad are the
habitats and species that are most vulnerable. In the medium-term, the montane forest and the
three undescribed species of plant (Coffea sp., a Triurid, and a Acanthid) in addition to the
wetland spray meadows and the Kihansi Spray Toad are probably most vulnerable. In the long-
term, multiple habitats and species in the Kihansi Gorge face will face increased risk of alteration
or extinction. The nature of these threats and their likely impacts are indicated in Table 1.
Conservation Measures
24.   A series of conservation measures have been identified to address the various threats
facing the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem. These are summarized in Table 2. The measures include
captive breeding of the Kihansi Spray Toad, installing artificial spray irrigation, constructing
wetland spray meadow walkways, evaluating intermittent bypass flows, identifying the
distribution and abundance of the newly discovered plant species, identifying the distribution and
abundance of the Kihansi Spray Toad and appropriate habitat outside of the Kihansi Gorge,
translocating the Kihansi Spray Toad, and developing a landscape-wide conservation plan for the
Kihansi Gorge in the context of the       Table 3: Immediate Rescue and Emergency Measures
Udzungwa Mountains.                              (IREMS) for Lower Kihansi Gorge
Ecological Management
25.   Short   term    emergency         * E cological studies of the Kibansi Spray Toad
mitigation  measures  are  already      * C2onstruction of walkways in the spray wetlands
underway,  with  separate  donor        . Studies of the Mhaala spray wetland
financing  through  the  Immediate      * Artificial spray extension
] Kihansi Spray toad translocation studies
Rescue and Emergency Measures           Preparation for Granting Final Water Right
Project  (IREMS).   These   are         * Studies of internittent high flows
summarized in Table 3. The impact       . Studies in preparation for final water right determination
of these measures will need to be      Preparation Studies
assessed. LKEMP is expected to          * Capacity Needs Assessment
finance medium  and longer term         . Kihansi Area Conservation Plan
Technical Reviews
measures, based on this assessment.      ehia  eiw
Notes: Short-term mitigation measures underway with
Nonvegian and Swedish assistance.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                                    6
Technical Anne-x
Table 2: Temporal Sequence for Assessing and Implementing Short- and Medium-Term
Conservation Measures in the Kihansi Gor e
aptive breedingof  On-going       a"Insurance      Short- to       DLimitedcapacity   Srvivorship of
theKihansi Spray                   policy"against  medium-term    atomaintain        captivewbred toads
Toad m                             the extinction                  instcaptiveobred  mintheaild.
of the toad                      species in      Understanding of
b. ski-jump  feasibility         lotperpetuity    t oad ecology
I   |              j                i ~~~~~~~~~~which can be
maInte e         & pricated in vitro
Artiricial Spray    a. Being       Maintain spray   Short- to       Disturbance of    Response of
Irrigation          tested         wetland during |medium-term    habitat during   |wetland spray
a. misting spray    b. Preliminary   the dry season                 installation,     meadow     
b. ski-jump         feasibility                                   |long-term        vegetation, toads|
assessment   IIImaintenance    I& predators                                       I
Creation of wetland   Preliminary    Reduce human   Short- to       May be placed    Indirect effects on
spray meadow        assessment     disturbance in   medium-term    incorrectly for    the toad and
walkways                           the wetland                      purposes of      wetland vegetation
spray                           monitonrng;
meadows                         damage wetland
during
._______________  -_. _|_---__      installation
Intermittent bypass  Limited       Maintain spray   Short- to long-    Unwillingness    Response of toads,
flows               observations   wetland &       term             or inability of  and their food
montane forest                  TANESCO to    items to rapid
during the dry                  release desired    fluctuations in
season                          bypass flow      discharge; capacity
to reduce habitat
._________________|__                                 desiccation
Survey distribution   Limited      Establish the    Short- to       May overlook     Species have not
and abundance of    observations   level of threat   medium-term    sites containing   been formally
newly discovered                   facing the new                   these species    described
plant species                      plant species   |______
Survey distribution   Limited      Identification    Medium- to     May overlook     The likelihood of a
and abundance of    observations    of other       long-term        sites containing   highly disjunct
Kihansi Spray                      populations                      these species    distribution
Toad and                           and sites for
appropriate habitat                translocation
outside the Kihansi
Gorge               ______I_I
Translocation of    No action to    Reduce the     Medium- to       Translocations    Detailed ecology
the Kihansi Spray    date          risk of         long-term        of amphibians    of the toad and
Toad                               extinction of                    have had a high   identification of
the toad                        failure rate     suitable sites
Landscape-wide      No action to    Reduce long-    Medium- to long  Unknown social  Social and
conservation plan   date           term risk of    termt            and economic    economic costs of
for the Kihansi                    extinction for                   costs associated   establishing
Gorge in the                       many plant and                   with establishing  wildlife corridors
context of the                     arimal species                   wildlife         and expanding
Udzungwa                           in the Kihansi                   corridors and    protected area
Mountains that                     Ciorge                           expanding        coverage; potential
would include                                                       protected areas;   for increased rates
establishing wildlife                                              increased rates    of predation,
corridors and                                                       of predation,    disease,
expanding                                                           disease and      outbreeding
protected area                                                      outbreeding      depression, etc.
coverage                                                            depression



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                         7
Technical Anne-x
Project Objectives and Components
Objectives
26.   The objective of the proposed Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project
(LKEMP) is to put in place a series of imedium-term measures to ensure the long-term
conservation of the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem and upstream catchment areas. At the national
level, the project has the objective of supporting the development of a coordinated and consistent
legal and institutional framework for environmental and water resources management and
strengthening of ecosystem monitoring and assessment functions of the environmental
institutions. The proposed project is comprised of four components:
* Habitat and species conservation and rnanagement;
* Establishment of final water right;
. Implementing an Updated Environmental Management Plan;
* Institutional Strengthening.
27.   Estimated project costs and the financing plan are summarized in Tables 4 and 5.
Component 1: Habitat and species conservalion and management
28.   The project is expected to develop and launch a Kihansi gorge ecosystem monitoring and
conservation program, to provide resources to follow-up on the captive breeding efforts (in
particular to finance translocation studies, to assess the feasibility of, and to develop a plan for
the reintroduction of the Kihansi Spray Toad to another habitat in Tanzania, if this is judged to
be the most appropriate approach for the conservation of the species. Among other things, the
monitoring and conservation program would identify threats to other endemic or threatened
species in the Gorge ecosystem, and would develop and implement necessary mitigation
measures. These could include altering the bypass flow regime, translocation and reintroduction,
or ex-situ propagation.
29.   Ecosystem monitoring and conservation program. The objective of the ecosystem
monitoring and conservation program will be to develop and implement monitoring protocols for
the Gorge ecosystem (relying on the best technical inputs available), to evaluate the impacts of
earlier mitigation interventions in the Gorge (such as the spray irrigation system), to recommend
changes or improvements to these, to examine new mitigation proposals (such as the proposed
'ski jump' option), and to support a comprehensive program of ecological research of relevance
to conservation of the Gorge ecosystem.
30.   The development of monitoring protocols is an early priority. Past efforts at mitigation
have been hampered, for example, because of methodological inconsistencies in monitoring
populations of threatened species. Much early work focused principally on systematics, and on
species identification, rather than on population dynamics, and how species distribution might
change with changes in the ecosystem. Baseline studies have, to some extent, been biased toward
understanding the distribution of forest tree species, rather than the distribution of plant species
more generally or wider ecosystem studies.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                     8
Technical Annex
Table 4: Project Costs b Com onent
2. Establishment of Final Water Right         330       263       593       1 1
3. Implementing an Updated Ernvironmental     651       506     1,156       22
Management Plan
4. Institutional Strengthening                351       909     1,259       24
Total BASELINE COSTS                        2,3841    2,863     5,247      100
Physical Contingencies                     238       286        525       10
Price Contingencies273159                                                  1
Total PROJECT COSTS                         2,899     3,469     6,368      121
Table 5: Project Costs, by Financier
31.    The project will provide support for annual consultations amongst project personnel,
researchers, and key stakeholders, for the purposes of defining the scope and boundaries of
needed research and required studies and to establish monitoring protocols as well as to provide
a forum for presenting preliminary and final results. It is important that information and findings
are freely and regularly exchanged among institutions, scientists, and project personnel involved
in research, monitoring, and assessment in the Kihansi Gorge as well as between institutions and
individuals involved in situ and ex situ conservation activities of the Kihansi Spray Toad.
32.    Monitoring studies should focus, for example, on the impact of short- and medium-term
conservation measures which are underway, and research is required to fill critical gaps in
knowledge. Particular attention will be given to developing monitoring protocols that have
sufficient statistical power to detect long-term  trends in populations, communities, and
landscapes. Of special importance are detailed ecological studies of the Kihansi Spray Toad and
its habitat requirements, the distribution, abundance and ecology of the newly discovered plant
species, effects of intermittent bypass flows on the Kihansi Spray Toad and wetland meadows
and montane forest, and the social and economic costs of establishing wildlife corridors and
expanding protected area coverage in the Udzungwa Mountains.
33.    The project will establish  a mechanism  to provide resources, through  an .ipen,
competitive, and peer-reviewed process, to national and interational scientists to conduct short-
and medium-term studies for the purposes of filling critical gaps in knowledge. Furthermore,
Tanzanian students and interns from relevant institutions will be supported under the institutional
strengthening component of this project to conduct field research on important aspects of the
ecology of the Kihansi Gorge.
34.    The project will provide resources to establish a permanent environmental monitoring
station in the Gorge, with support facilities in Kihansi but outside of the Gorge. The permanent



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                         9
Technical Annex
environmental monitoring station will be constructed at the existing research camp site, and will
be designed on the basis of specifications to be determined as a result of the first consultations
among stakeholders and researchers and on monitoring requirements and protocols. The
environmental monitoring station will be constlucted and operated in a manner which has a low-
impact on the immediate ecosystem, will be dlesigned to operate year-round, and will house a
field laboratory and accommodations for researchers, and visitors from coordinating
environmental institutions including members of the MTAC and the Steering Committee.
3 5.   Species conservation and captive breeding. A captive breeding program for the Kihansi
Spray Toad was launched in November 2000 by the US-based Wildlife Conservation Society
(WCS) and the National Amphibian Conservation Center (NACC). Around 500 individuals were
taken from Kihansi for the purpose of captive breeding. The success of the captive breeding
program ultimately depends on the successful reintroduction of the species to Tanzania either to
the original, restored, habitat in the Gorge, or to another similar habitat in Tanzania.
36.   The project may provide resources to retain specialist services needed to maintain the
captive breeding program until the species can be returned to Tanzania. These services will be
identified during project implementation, in cooperation with the lead captive breeding
institutions. In addition, the project will provide resources to enable the Wildlife Department,
others from NEMC, the MTAC, or the MAultisectoral Steering Committee to undertake
monitoring visits to the captive breeding facilities once a year.
37.   Field work and related studies to examine the potential for reintroducing the toad to
another site in Tanzania was launched as part of the IREMS project. It is unlikely that these
studies will be brought to closure in the short term, and there is clearly a need to continue to
search for alternative reintroduction sites. The project will finance translocation studies with the
objective of developing and implementing a plan for reintroduction of the species. The decision
to translocate the species will be made as an outcome of consultations with specialists and
researchers. The project will finance oversight monitoring activities by NEMC.
38.   Landscape-wide conservation plan. The Kihansi Gorge comprises a small fraction of
the much larger Udzungwa mountain ecosystem, on which it is highly dependent. The
Udzungwa Scarp Forest Reserve, for example, accounts for around one-third of the entire water
catchment for the Kihansi hydropower project. Preliminary studies have been undertaken with
regard to the need to ensure that forest fragments remain connected by corridors to reduce the
threat of local extinction. The IREMS project has launched the preparation of the Kihansi Area
Conservation Plan (which focuses largely on the immediate Gorge and the vicinity). This plan
will be reviewed by LKEMP and funds will be mobilized from other sources to support its
implementation.
39.   The LKEMP proposes to extend the Kihansi Area Conservation Planning process to the
wider landscape and the upstream catchment area, to incorporate some of the issues with regard
to Kihansi into conservation of the Udzungwa Mountains ecosystem and the farming systems as
a whole. This activity will be coordinated with the proposed GEF Eastern Arc Conservation and
Management Project and the DANIDA supported Udzungwa Mountains Forest Management and
Biodiversity Conservation Project, and funds will be mobilized from other sources to support its
implementation.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                           10
Technical Annex
40.   Capacity building. The project will support teaching in Conservation Biology at the
University of Dar es Salaam to increase the institutional capacity of Tanzania to conserve and
manage threatened habitats and species and to train future researchers, natural resource
managers, and decision makers in conservation biology. Additional support will be provided for
the overseas training of 2 doctoral students in conservation biology with a focus on problems of
conserving and managing threatened habitats and species in Tanzania. Support shall also be
provided for the overseas training of 2 Masters degree students who shall conduct their field
research on aspects of the ecology of the Kihansi Gorge, and through in-service, short course,
training of technical staff, as required.  The project will also finance training needs for
monitoring staff in the Vice President's Office, including (as appropriate) study tours and
exchange visits.
Component 2: Establishment offinal water right
41.   The project will continue to implement the work plan for the modified flow regimes
prepared under the Immediate Rescue and Emergency Measures (IREMS) Project which is
intended to finance a transparent process for establishing a final water right for Tanesco to
operate the Kihansi facility on the basis of scientific inputs and representations from the Ministry
of Water and Livestock Development, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the
National Environment Management Council, the Environment Division (Vice President's
Office), Tanesco, stakeholders in the scientific community and NGOs. The project will finance
the operations of the Multidisciplinary Technical Advisory Committee (MTAC) to carry out
several tasks.
42.   Interim bypass flow monitoring. An interim monitoring program will be instituted to
ensure that the provisional maximum bypass flows (of between 1.51 - 1.89 m3/s, or a continuous
average flow of 1.7 m3/s) from the bypass pipe is maintained until the final water right is granted.
An interim monitoring program will be prepared with support from the project, and sanctions
against non compliance will be outlined. Implementation of the interim bypass flow monitoring
will be the responsibility of the RBWO and NEMC and it should include: (a) continuous flow
measuring devices at the RBWO flow gauging station, (b) regular reporting of the continuous
environmental flow releases, and (c) frequent field monitoring by RBWO. To the extent possible,
interim monitoring will rely on existing data collection which is undertaken by Tanesco as part
of its power station management regime.
43.   Flow manipulation and ecological studies. To test the efficacy of measures for partially
restoring the degraded Kihansi Gorge ecosystem, a series of intermittent high flow studies
coupled with ecological studies will be carried out to determine a modified environmental flow
regime. The objective of the intermittent high flow studies will be to examine the dispersion and
amount of spray and microclimate changes (temperature and humidity) against different flow
regimes in the Kihansi Gorge. The ecological studies will focus on survivorship and natality of
the Kihansi Spray Toad, and effects on predators, food items and the wetland plant community.
Experimental ex situ studies will be included as part of this research to examine the impact of
intermittent high flows on aspects of the ecology of the toad and its habitat.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                              11
Technical Anne,x
44.   Intermittent high flow studies. A combination of intermittent high flow releases together
with low background flows (i.e., full bypass releases) will be tested to develop partially
acceptable conditions in the gorge. The efficacy of the strategy for influencing statistically
significant changes in the amount and dispersicn of the spray and temperature and humidity will
be tested over a 24 month period.3 A controlled flow regime will need to be operated for a
continuous period of at least several days if any indications of long term effect is to be expected.
Flow manipulation studies should be carried out during both the dry season and the wet season
and should include several variations for the intermittent high flow sequences with constant low
background flows.
45.   Ecological studies. The ecological implications of the flow manipulation studies (on
survivorship and natality of the Kihansi Spray Toad, and effects on predators, food items and the
wetland plant community) will also be carefully investigated.
46.   Proposed flow manipulation and ecological studies are summarized in Table 6.
47.   Financial and economic evaluation. Based on the findings of various studies, an
economic and financial impact of power losses due to a range of modified environmental flow
regime will be carried out.
48.   Prepare recommendations on a modlified environmental flow regime. Based on an
evaluation of the studies carried out, the MTAC will recommend to the NEMC as an input into
decision making by the Rufiji Basin Water Board on the modified environmental flow regime to
be stipulated as a condition of the final water right. This recommendation should:
*  focus on the conditions for a water right for Phase 1 (180 MW) operations4
• be based on balancing the conservation value of partial restoration of the Kihansi Gorge and
the financial and economic impact of a imodified environmental flow regime, within the
prevailing policy environment towards water resources management.
* include the operating conditions and criteria for a final water right. The operating conditions
for a final water right will include flow combinations to be released through existing bypass
pipe and other outlet works of the dam (i.e., gates, etc.) during both the dry season and wet
season with  provisions to  provide the flexibility  for modifications, should  future
circumstances warrant. Release water quality conditions will also be stipulated.
3   The 24 month period would include the intermittent flow studies to be carried out under the short- and medium-tern
measures.
4   The maximum water flows for operating the three Phase 1 60 MW turbines is 24.9 m3/s.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                           12
Technical Annex
Table 6: Proposed Flow Manipulation and Ecological Studies
Flow Manipulation Studies
Flow manipulation studies should be carried out during the dry season as well as during the wet season and
should include several variations for the intermittent high flow sequences with constant low background
flows. Studies would have the objective of determining dispersion and temperature effects of different flow
regimes. For example,
*  Low background flows (1.7 m3/s for 18 hours) plus 4 m3/s for 2 hours, followed by 6 m3/s for 2
hours, and 8 m3/s for 2 hours;
.  Low background flows (1.7 m3/s for 20 hours) plus 8 m3/s for 4 hours,
•  Low background flows (1.7 m3/s for 20 hours) plus 10 m31s for 2 hours followed by 8 m3/s for 2
hours;
.  Low background flows (1.7 m3/s for 12 hours) plus 3 m3/s for 6 hours, followed by 4 m3/s for 4 hours
and 6 m3/s for 2 hours; and,
.  Constant background flow of 3.0 and 3.5 m3/s for 24 hours.
The water quality implications (silt and sediment loads) of the intermittent high flow sequences would also be
analyzed.
Ecological Studies
Fx-situ activities (greenhouse/zoo)
.  Plant species response (growth rates/survivorship) to varying flow levels; and,
. Kihansi Spray Toad survivorship and natalitv as a function of varying
*  temperature, hunmidity, UV levels.
In-situ activities (Kihansi Gorge)
*  change in microclimate;
*  dispersion and amount of spray;
.  response of food items;
I   response of predators;
.  change in plant community; and,
*  survivorship of toads.
Longer term studies to examine in greater detail the ecology of the toad and the newly described plant species.
etc., will continue beyond the 24 month period.
49.    Monitoring and enforcement of the final water right. An effective system  that is
robust and practical for monitoring and enforcement of the final water right will be put in place
to ensure compliance with the provisions of the final water right, and in support of the existing
Water Utilization and Control Act (1974, Cap. 42). These measures will be integrated into the
implementation program for the updated Environmental Management Plan. A monitoring and
enforcement program for regular monitoring, and sanctions against non-compliance will be
prepared. This program will be implemented by the RBWO and NEMC.
50.    Support data collection for hydrological model calibration. The project will support
collection of additional hydrological data5 and database development for calibrating the
hydrological model that TANESCO is developing. The hydrological model will be used for
supporting the operations of the power facility to optimize the dual objectives of hydropower
generation and Kihansi Gorge Ecosystem management.
"he data to be collected include climate, rainfall, stream flow, water quality and sediment load. The station locations and
data collection frequency will be determined by TANESCO and RBWO.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                          13
Technical Annex
Component 3: Implementing an Updated Environmental Management Plan.
51.   In light of the discovery of threatened endemic species in the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem,
there is a need immediately to prepare supplemental Environmental Assessment work, and to
develop an Environmental Management Plan, which must be implemented as a condition of the
final water right which is to be granted to Tanesco to operate the facility and to account for any
proposed future changes in power infrastructure at the site. In conjunction with the first project
component, the project will finance the design, organization, staffing, and funding, for an
environmental monitoring center/station based at Kihansi which can independently meet the
challenges of monitoring and implementation of an updated Environmental Management Plan,
and which involves local government in implementation. The project will finance establishment
and operation of this center/station until long-term financing arrangements can be agreed with
Tanesco. The project will support NEMC to prepare ecosystem monitoring guidelines for the
districts in the Kihansi catchment area. A feasibility study will be carried out to assess the most
cost-effective means for ex-situ species conservation and the conditions under which this
approach should be taken, including establishment of a captive breeding facility in conjunction
with the environmental monitoring center/station.
52.   Preparation  of the EMP  update. Preparation of the updated  Environmental
Management Plan should commence immediately, based on the extensive information already
available. The EMW should consider the results from the environmental studies already carried
out in Kihansi, and should include enough flexibility to incorporate new lessons as they become
available, particularly from the Ecosystem monitoring and conservation program as well as
from work carried out to establish the final water right.
53.   The updated Environmental Managernent Plan will specify the conditions which bind
Tanesco to operate the hydroelectric facility as a condition of the final water right, and will
describe independent monitoring arrangements to ensure that Tanesco remains in compliance
with these conditions. The EMP will also describe further mitigation measures which should be
tested or otherwise implemented.
54.   The EMP should also give consideration to proposed changes in the infrastructure at the
Kihansi site, in particular, the proposal that the currently operating 3 turbines are augmented with
an additional 2 turbines, and the impact this is likely to have on the Gorge ecosystem. It should
specify the likely impacts of these changes on the water flow, and the mitigating measures which
would have to be taken to ensure that the Gorge ecosystem is conserved.6
55.   The updated EMN  should consider, in the first instance, only those factors which
influence the conservation of the Gorge ecosystem and catchment, and the threatened species
found there, rather than the broader set of conditions and operating criteria addressed during
implementation of Power VI (in particular the public health aspects of the project, which, of
course, remain unaffected by the discovery of new species in the Gorge). Particular issues such
as fire management should be addressed in the EMP. The updated EMP should be completed
within the first two years after the project becomes effective.
6  The question is probably of lower priority. The recently completed Power Sector Master Plan (Acres Intemational,
November 2000) concluded that 'investments in additional units (at Kihansi are) ... unlikely to be cost-effective.'



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                         14
Technical Annex
56.   Implementing the Updated EMP. Implementation of the updated EMP will be carried
out in conjunction with the ecosystem monitoring and conservation program. Because of the
uncertainties surrounding the mitigation steps which will be identified and developed in the
EMP, the planning of the likely investments which will be needed is constrained. Funding for
possible mitigation measures is included in the proposed project budget in the project's fourth
and fifth years, and will be reallocated if needed.
57.   A central feature of the implementation period, however, will be the development of a
system for monitoring water flows through the Gorge. During preparation of the EMP, the scope
for tapping into the existing Tanesco monitoring system will be explored, with a view to
developing 'live' reporting of bypass and spill flows, and power station offlake. The institutional
responsibility for monitoring bypass flows will be identified during preparation of the EMP.
58.   The Multisectoral Technical Advisory Committee and the project Steering Committee
will be responsible for directing the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan.
Support shall be provided for training of the supervisory and field staff responsible for
implementing EMP.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening.
59.   The national system for environmental and water resources management needs to be
rationalized. Consistent with the recommendations of the Environmental Review, the project will
finance preparation and implementation of a program of institutional capacity building which
results in a coordinated system, at the national level, of environmental and water resources
management. The program will take into account and will adopt and support the implementation
of the recommendations and findings of the recently completed review carried out by the
Institutional and Legal Framework for Environmental Management Project (ILFEMP) as well as
recommendations related to the establishment of a new national water policy.7 The strategy will
include several linked elements: institute legal mandates for environmental management,
establish the capacity for regulation and enforcement, provide training and fund an awareness
building program.
60.   Regulatory Framework for Environmental Management The project will finance
support for finalization and dissemination of proposed national environmental impact assessment
guidelines, as recommended in the Environmental Review and in the ILFEMP study, and will
finance a series of public consultations to capture stakeholder concerns and perspectives on how
these guidelines should be promulgated. Once a consensus has been reached about proposed
guidelines, which is consistent with the national policy framework, the project will also finance
dissemination.
61.   Awareness raising. An awareness raising  program  about the importance  of
environmentally sustainable water resources management will be developed and implemented by
NEMC in conjunction with the Ministry of Water and Livestock Development to support the
7  This should complement the work that IUCN is initiating in the Rufiji Basin and proposing to support in the Pangani and
Ruvuma Basins.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                        15
Technical Annex
implementation of the environmental management aspects of the new water policy. The overall
objective will be to support the implementation of the key environmental management provisions
related to the sustainable management of water resources, including its quantity, quality, aquatic
ecosystems, protection of important watersheds and groundwater recharge areas, control of
invasive species (such as water hyacinth) and protection of biodiversity. The program will
develop specific messages for targeting for particular groups (including cabinet ministers,
Permanent Secretaries and Directors, multi-sectoral water user groups, and the public) and to be
communicated through various media (newsletters and newspaper, workshop, radio, TV, etc.).
The awareness program will have components at the national, sector and area specific levels. It
will be developed by a Local Media Consulting Company, in consultations with NEMC and the
MOWL over a period of 3 months and im;plemented jointly by NEMC and MOWL.
62.   Capacity Building and Training. The IREMS project is undertaking an institutional
capacity needs assessment to identify gaps, weaknesses and strengths in capacities for
environmental decision making, specific to the question of water resources and the environment.
Much of this work must be put into the wider context posed by ILFEMP, which proposed
various strategies and institutional mechanisms for addressing questions of environmental
management and regulation, especially in the context of decentralization.
63.   Based on the results of the capacity needs assessment, a program for strengthening the
local capacity for implementing ETA legislation and for monitoring, regulating and enforcing the
legal provisions related to environmental quality objectives in the water policy in water sector
projects (for example, for hydropower generation, irrigation development, domestic, industrial
and mining water supply, etc.) will be implemented. This will follow the recommendations of the
ILFEMP study and complement the capacity building recommendations under the River Basin
Management and Smallholder Irrigation Improvement Project which will calls for the
establishment of environmental units in the MOWL and RBWOs (in the Pangani and Rufiji
Basins). The capacity building program will be finalized on the basis of the findings of the
capacity needs assessment, and may include:
* Support for developing a program in environmental management/sciences at the University
of Dar es Salaam for training undergraduate and post-graduate students in areas of
environmental management, planning, freshwater ecology, environmental engineering;
*  Strengthening the monitoring and assessment and EIA Departments/units within NEMC and
DOE;
* Supporting the establishment of environmental units within the Ministry of Energy and
Minerals, including support for incorporating environmental concerns into hydropower
planning;
*  Short courses (2-4 week) in Environmental Compliance;
* Strengthening the water monitoring and enforcement capacity of the RBWO, with a specific
emphasis on hydrology;
* Participation of a range of stakehclders in targeted workshop/training/conferences (e.g.,
Environmental Flow Assessment for Rivers: An international working conference on
methods and case histories on March 3-8, 2002 in Cape Town).



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                          16
Technical Annex
SECTION B: PROJECTA DMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
64.   Policy guidance and overall project oversfte and supervision is to be provided by a high-
level Steering Committee which has been constituted specifically to deal with matters related to
the Lower Kihansi Gorge. The Steering Committee is comprised of the Permanent Secretaries
from the Vice President's Office (Chairman), the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the
Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the Ministry of Water and Livestock Development, and the
Ministry of Finance.
65.   The Multisectoral Technical Advisory Committee (MTAC) has been constituted to
provide advice to the Steering Committee on matters related to Kihansi. It is comprised largely
of representatives of key stakeholders, including the Division of Environment (Vice President's
Office), National Environment Management Council, Tanesco, the Ministry of Water and
Livestock Development, the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the Division of Wildlife (MN1RT),
and the Forestry and Beekeeping Division (MNRT). Members of the MTAC will also have key
project implementation responsibilities, and the project will provide support for efficient
communication.
66    The National Environment Management Council will be the lead coordinating institution
for project implementation. A Project Coordinator will be employed by the project, and housed
by NEMC, within 3 months of the date of effectiveness of the project.
67.   Under the coordinating mechanism to be established by NEMC, there will be multiple
implementing institutions. Implementation responsibilities for these institutions and the flow of
communication in the coordinating rnechanism are indicated in Table 7 and in Figure I
respectively.
Table 7: Tanzania Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project
Implementation and Oversite Res ponsibilities for Ke Miti ation Measures
1. Habitat and species conservation  andl
managementI
2.Establishment of final waterneht
3. Preparing and Implementing an Upae    
Environmental Management Pla 
4. Institution building__



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmentail Management Project                           17
Technical Annex
FIGURE 1
INSliTUllONAL ARRANGENENT FOR THE IMPLEMNENTATION OF LOVYER KIHANSI ENVIRONMENTAL
NANAGEET PROJECT
Diret commurmcation
LiaisoivCoordinatlon
Financial
- -  FacNitation
68.   The Project Coordinator will be assisted by a consultant to provide guidance specifically
with respect to conservation biology. The consultant should hold a Masters or Ph.D. in ecology
with a minimum of 10 years of experience with expertise in population and conservation
biology. This individual will also be responsible for providing assistance in updating and
implementing the Environmental Management Plan and will be recruited in consultation with the
MTAC,
Procurement, Disbursement, and Financial Management
69.   In order to facilitate project start-up, existing financial management and procurement
capacity in the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism is to be mobilized to provide this
support as an interim measure. The finarncial management and procurement capacity of existing
consultant staff within MNRT was assessed during preparation to determine strengths and
weaknesses, and to establish if this exis,ting capacity would be adequate in the short term for
assisting in project implementation. This assessment concluded that existing capacity is adequate
for meeting the procurement and financial management demands of the project, though there is
scope for strengthening.
Procurement Arrangements
70    Procurement financed under the project will be limited to recruitment of consultants
services, office equipment, a limited number of vehicles, some civil works, and incremental
operating costs. An experienced Procurement Specialist (already in place) will have



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                             18
Technical Annex
responsibility for ensuring that procurement for works and goods is carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999).
Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for the Selection and Employment of Conisultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997,
and revised September 1997 and January 1999).
71.   A General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations Development
Business (UNDB) and will include a description of required services or goods, the client agency,
and the budgeted cost. This notice will be updated every year during the execution of the projects
until all contracts and assignments have been procured. In the case of contracts which are
expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent, Specific Procurement Notices will be issued
through the national press or other means.
72.   To the extent possible, procurement arrangements have been designed to respond to the
need for flexible use of procurement methods, given the institutional capacity of the
implementing agencies and the need for urgent action. A detailed Procurement Plan describing
procurement requirements for the project's first year is in preparation, and will be completed
before effectiveness. This will be revised annually during preparation of the Annual Work
Program and Budget. Whenever possible, procurement items will be consoiidated into
appropriately-scaled contracting packages.
73.   Procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out by the National
Environment Management Council working in the first instance with MNRT.
74.   A Procurement Evaluation Committee (PEC) will be constituted by the Multisectoral
Technical Advisory Committee to support the implementation of the Lower Kihansi
Environmental Management Project. Its primary function will be to evaluate tender documents
Table 8: Type of Procurement, by Procurement Method
A.= Cii Works                        27       l        _-  x
l                     I  ~~~~~~~~~~(246)  l(246)
B. Goods and Equipment /a      l                   216       323                   539
(205)     (307)                 (512)
C. Consultants' Services and Training /b             -          -      5,126     5,126
(5,126)   (5,126)
D. Incremental Operating Costs  I                    -       429           -       429
(386)                (386)
Total Project Costs, by method of                  216       753       5,126     6,368
Procurement
l amounts financed by IDA   I       (246)  1     (205)      (694)     (5,126)   (6,271)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
\a Estimates for international shopping include procurement from IAPSO
\b Includes workshops, training, and study tours.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                        19
Technical Annex
for all goods, works, and services to be financed by the Project, and on the basis of these
evaluations, provide recommendations for contract awards. The Committee will consist of:
Project Coordinator
.  Accountant
*  Procurement Specialist
*  (other members to be determined on an ad hoc basis)
75.   The presence of a quorum of PEC members will be required for all bid evaluations.
Contracts for the procurement of goods (e g. vehicles, computers and other office equipment not
available locally) would be packaged into larger contracts wherever possible.
Civil works
76.   Civil works to be carried out under this project are expected to consist of small contracts
mostly under US$ 100,000 and therefore no procurement under International Competitive
Bidding procedures is envisaged. Individual contracts for civil works under US$ 50,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 200,000 will be procured on the basis of three quotations from
qualified contractors. The first three of these contracts will be subject to prior review. Contracts
estimated to cost $50,000 (in aggregate not to exceed $250,000) and above will be procured on
the basis of National Competitive Bidding, all of which will be subject to prior review.
Goods and Equipment
77.   Individual contracts for goods and equipment with an estimated value of less than
$30,000 will be procured using local or international shopping, for an aggregate not to exceed
$400,000, based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers in response to
written invitation. Individual contracts for goods and equipment more than US$ 30,000 per
contract and less than $150,000 per contract will be procured through National Competitive
Bidding procedures for an aggregate not to exceed $200,000. The first three of these contracts
will be subject to prior review. For contracts estimated to cost $150,000 and above, International
Competitive Bidding will be used.
78.   Individual units of office equiprment (individual fax machines, printers, and laptop
computers) may be purchased through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO)
of the United Nations with an aggregate value not to exceed $200,000.
Consultants' Services and Training
79.   Consultancy services for all conmponents of the project, including studies, technical
assistance, supervision of works, requiring the recruitment of consulting firms or individual
consultants will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
80.   Individual consultants contracts and consulting firms contracts below the threshold of
US$50,000 and US$ 100,000 respectively may be awarded on the basis of qualifications and
experience in accordance with Bank guidelines. For these contracts, prior review will be required



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                            20
Technical Annex
of all TORs, proposed budgets, contracts, and consultant qualifications. Sole sourcing may be
allowed on an exceptional basis and prior agreement with IDA, subject to the conditions outlined
in the Guidelines. Prior review will also be required of all single-source consultancies, regardless
of their value. Contracts for. individual consultants below US$ 50,000, and for consulting firms
below US $100,000, will be subject to post-review. Prior review will be required for individual
contracts above US$50,000 and above US$100,000 for firms.
81.   With regard to workshops, training, study tours and field expenses, prior review of all
activities will be required, including proposed budget, agenda, participants, location of training,
and other relevant details.
Incremental operating costs
82.   Incremental operating costs are defined to mean building, equipment, and vehicle
maintenance  costs,  fuel,  office  supplies,  building  rental  charges,  utilities,  and
telecommunications costs, and the costs of Project support staff, but excluding salaries of
officials of the civil service.
83.   For most activities, however, prior review will be limited to contracts above the
thresholds stated above. IDA may request prior review of bid documents, evaluation methods
and contracts for which they require more detailed information. Similarly, any request for no
objection from Secretariat will be formally replied by IDA.
Post review
84.   Under the project, the procurement actions not subject to prior review as described above
will be subject to post-review. This is to allow for fast disbursement of funds while assuring
transparency and consistency with these procedures. All documentation used for the procedures
of contracting , recruitment of consulting services, evaluation and award shall be retained for
subsequent examination by independent auditors and IDA supervision missions. The number,
timing and pattern of supervision missions will be determined at the start of the implementation
program.
Disbursement Arrangements
85.   All disbursements will be handled in a manner which is consistent with the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, and as described in the Development Credit Agreement. Funds will be
disbursed over 5 year period, planned to begin in July 2001. The Completion Date will be June
30, 2006 and the Closing Date will be December 31, 2006. All applications to withdraw proceeds
from the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures for incremental operating
costs, training costs, and contracts with a value of $150,000 or less for goods and equipment,
$50,000 or less for civil works, $100,000 or less for consultants services (firms), $50,000 or less
for consultants services (individuals), for which reimbursements or replenishments to the Special
Account may be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation
will be retained by the Government and will be available for inspection and review as requested
by IDA Supervision Missions and by project auditors.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                        21
Technical Annex
86.    It is envisaged that a Special Account, acceptable to IDA, will be established. The
authorized allocation of this accounts will be US$250,000. Requests for replenishment of the
Special Account should be submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances, but in
any event, not less frequently than once every three months. Each replenishment request will
accompanied by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement
87.    Consistent with the framework  for streamlined  implementation, four disbursement
categories are envisaged: civil works, goods and equipment, consulting services and training, and
incremental operating costs.
Financial Management
88.    In order to facilitate project start-up, existing financial management capacity in the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism is to be mobilized to provide this support as an
interim measure. An assessment of the financial management capacity in place in MNRT
indicated that it would be adequate to support implementation of LKEMP as an interim measure
until permanent implementation capacity is established. MNRT staff are qualified and have long
experience in implementing IDA projects. In the medium-term, additional capacity will be
Table 9: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
basis of quotations
obtained from three
qualified national
$50,00 bu <$15,000 contractors           __ ______
> $5,00 bu < 150000 NCB for an aggregate not ~All
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ _  __ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ to   exceed   $250,000
B. Goods and Equipment   < $30,000                Local or Inteuational    itnotheec
Shopping, for an aggregate
not to exceed $400,000 
> $30,000 but < $150,000   NCB, for an aggregate not  first three contracts
_____________________to exceed $200,000     subject to prior review
> $150,000               ICB                  --All    __
Individual units of office   IAPSO. Individual    none
equipment furiture,      contracts not to exceed
vehicles                 $30,000 for an aggregate
not to exceed $200,000.   'l
C. Consultants' Services    > $50,000 for individuals  Individual Qualifications  iAll none
and Training             > $ 100.000 for firs     QCBS                     [All
<$50,000 for individuals   Qualificadons. Sole    TORs_ budget,
or < $100,000 for firmsa sourcing may be allowed.   qualifications, contract
subject to clauses 3.8 -
| _______$150,000 _______ 3.11 of Guidelines.                    ______
Workshops, training, study  Acceptable nadional   All
| tours                   practice no to exceed                          l
D. Incremental operating    All operating costs and  Acceptable naftional   None
costs _____________     field expenses            commercial practice



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                      22
Technical Annex
needed in terms of
(i)    a qualified accountant who should be recruited to assist existing staff,
(ii)   the development of a sound financial management system, including preparation of a
financial accounting manual,
(iii)   computerization of project accounts.
(iv)   establishment of Financial Management Sub-Committee within the MTAC responsible
for reviewing project financial reports. This Sub-Committee will report to the MTAC on
a quarterly basis. The TORs for this committee will be agreed upon with IDA.
89.    This additional capacity will ensure that the project has in place an adequate financial
management system which can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project as required by the Borrower and IDA. It was agreed that
a qualified accountant would be recruited within 3 months of the date of Credit effectiveness
90.    It was also agreed that a financial management consultant should be recruited to assist the
project to develop, improve, and implement a satisfactory financial management system which
would  enable measurement and  timely reporting of the project's financial performance,
efficiency and effectiveness. The consultant would assist the lead implementing institution in
ensuring that it,
(i)    maintains books of accounts in accordance with acceptable international accounting
practices using modern technology,
(ii)    prepares financial statement in accordance with  Generally  Acceptable Accounting
Principles (GAAP)-lnternational Accounting Standards (1AS),
(iii)   has adequate systems in place to measure and monitor its performance on various
Table 10: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil Works                          224               90 %      
2. Goods and Equipment                  466        It( 00 % of foreign costs
9() ° of local costs
3 Consulting Services and Training     4.660              100            |
1 4. Incremental Operating Costs         ,; 1              9( %
Unallocated      _ ___7_0_______         5      _
Total Credit Amount                    6.271
Note Incremental operating costs are defined to include building. equipmenL and
vehicle maintenance costs: fuel, small purchases of office supplies. building rental
charges. utilities. internet access, telephone charges. and staff travel and subsistence
Cexpenses not elsewhere provided.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental MVIanagement Project                       23
Technical Annex
activities;
(iv)   has systems to properly plan and budget its various activities and to make satisfactory
financial projections; and that it
(v)   develops and operates a set of financial policies to enable it to function effectively and
efficiently
91.   Accounting and audits will be conducted in accordance with sound and internationally
recognized accounting and auditing principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. The audit
reports and related project accounts will be submitted to IDA within six (6) months after the end
of the fiscal year. In addition to their standard short form report with the opinion, the auditors
will be required: (i) to review all SOEs, as well as internal control procedures governing their
preparation for the period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii) to review
the management and use of the Special account, and express a separate opinion thereon. Finally,
the auditors will complete an in-depth review internal control systems to identify the weaknesses
and shortcomings, and to propose recommendations for improvement. The results of this review
will be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted with the audit reports.
Monitoring and Evaluation
92.   Monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the Project Coordinator who will
report to the Steering Committee throulgh the Director General and MTAC on project
performance.
93.   Key indicators of project performance were agreed during Appraisal, and are summarized
in Table 10. Schedule A summarizes K(ey Project Activities, Outputs, and Implementing
Institutions in greater detail.
Main Credit Conditions
94.   Conditions of effectiveness. Government should ensure that a Project Implementation
Manual and a project accounting system acceptable to the Bank is in place.
95.   Legal coveniants. An Updated Environmental Management Plan will be prepared for
review by the Bank by June 30, 2003 The final water right to operate the Kihansi hydroelectric
power facility will be established within tlhe prevailing regulatory framework, and Tanesco will
be formally notified by December 31, 2003. The water right will include conditions of operation
with respect to the environment.



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                         24
Technical Annex
Table 10: Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project
Key Performance Indicators
The Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project is expected to result in the:
1.     Development and implementation of a Kihansi Gorge ecosystem monitoring program which, among
other things, develops technical standards for monitoring flora and fauna populations in the Gorge,
evaluates the effectiveness of various mitigation measures already under implementation, and which
recommends new mifigation measures as needed.
2.     Development and implementation of measures to improve the conservation status of the Kihansi
Gorge ecosy stem. and to restore critical habitats where this is possible and cost-effective.
3.     Establishment of the criteria and the mechanisms for reintroducing threatened endemic species to the
Kihansi Gorge (such as the Kihansi Spray Toad). or to other appropriate habitats.
4      Preparation of a landscape-wide conservation and catchment area management plan which considers
upstream catchment protection and its impact on the Kihansi Gorge.
5.     Strengthening of the capacitv and the institutional basis for conserving threatened habitats and species
in Tanzania. and for training future researchers, natural resource managers. and decision makers in
conservation biology;
6.     Determination of Tanesco's final right to use water from the Kihansi river, through a transparent
process on the basis of scientific inputs and representations from various stakeholders;
7      Establislunent and implementation of a framework for monitoring and enforcing compliance with the
final wxater right
8.     Preparation of an updated Environmental Management Plan, to be implemented as a condition of the
final water right. and which accounts for threatened endemic species in the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem.
9.     Finali/ation and dissemination of proposed national environmental impact assessment guidelines;
10     Prioritizing and addressing capacity-building needs which are identified as a result of a capacity needs
assessment with respect to environmental decision making specific to the question of water resources
and the environment;
IL     Strengthening of the institutional and regulatorv framework for environmental management, in
particular. by improving the capacity for implementing EIA regulations, and for monitoring.
regulating. and enforcing legal provisions related to environmental quality objectives



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                                      25
Technical Annex
SCHEDULES
Schedule A: Key Project Activities
1. Habitat and    To put in place    A. Ecosystem     i  Consultations to    Begin in first    tJDSM,
Species         mechanisrns for      Monitoring and    reach agreement   project year, Have   MNRT,
Conservation    developing           Conservation      on research and    field station in   TAFORI,
and             future actions                         on monitoring      place bv the third    MTAC,
Management    for conserving                           protocols          project year.      'IAWIRI
and managing                       ii. Monitoring
the Kihansi                            studies           Monitoring studies
Gorge eco-                         iii. Permanent Field    on-going.
system in                             Monitoring and
conjunction with                      Research Station                    _____
efforts to build    B. Species      i. Monitoring of     Monitoring studies   JlDSM,
the capacity for    conservation       captive bred      on-going.           MNRT,
conservation        and captive        populations                           NEMC,
science in          breeding       ii. Feasibility       Feasibilitx work    MTAC
Tanzania.                              assessment for ex-  carried out in third
situ conservation    project year.
iii Translocation
studies and       Translocation
preparation of    studies carried out
strategy for      in second and third
reintroducing     project years.
Kihansi Spray
toad
C. Landscape-    i. Field Program       Begin preparation    MNRT,
wide              Coordination       in second project    TAFORI,
Conservation   ii. Preparation of    year.              TANFSCO,
Plan              Consolidated                          MTAC, Local
Conservation Plan                     Government
D. Capacity       i. Improved IJDSM    On-going through   tJDSM,
Building          capacity in       the hfe of the      TAFORI.
Conservation      project.            MNRT,
Biology                               TAWIRJ
ii Post-graduate-
level training
iii. Graduate field
Research
programs
supported



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                                   26
Technical Annex
2. Establishment   To establish a  A. Inteiim Bypass  i hInformation about  Prior to the     RBWO,
of the Final    transparent         Flow              compliance with   establishment of    NF-MC,
Water Right     process to          Monitoring        agreed bypass     the final water    TANESCO,
determine                            flows              right              MF,M
Tanesco's final                    ii. Plant operation
water right to                       information
operate the     B. Flow           i. Flow               Carried out during   RBWO,
Kihansi facility    Manipulation      manipulation     the first 18 months  NEMC,
on the basis of    and Ecological    studies            of the project.    TANESCO,
scientific inputs   Studies        ii. Ecological                          MEM
and                                  Studies
representations                   iii. Longer term flow
from key                             manipulation and
stakeholders                         ecological studies
C. Financial and   i. Financial and    Carried out after    NEMC,
Economic          economic         flow manipulation   TANESCO,
Evaluation       indicators         studies are        MEM, MNRT
prepared          completed
ii. Power Sector
Master Plan
Updated                 ._        _        _
D. Recommen-    i. Technical reviews  Water right         NFMC,
dations on        of proposals      assigned no later    MTAC,
Environmental  ii. Stakeholder      than 2 years after    RWBO, MFM,
Flovws            meetings on       project launch     VPO
recommendations
iii. Establishment of
final water right                         _      .
E. Monitoring/   i. Mechanism for    After final water    RBWO,
Enforcement of    enforcement       right is assigned  MWLD,
Final Water       developed                            Tanesco,
Right          ii Monitoring of                        NEMC
compliance
F. Support for    i. Data collected to    On-going        Tanesco,
Hydrological      update                               RBWO,
modeling          hydrological                         MWLD
model and river
basin data base                    l
3. Implementing    To prepare and    A. Preparation of  i. Overall Project    Project        NEMC,
an Updated      begin imple-        Updated           management and   management to       RBWO,
Environmental   mentation of an     Environmental     Coordination      carry on through   MTAC
Management    Updated               Management   ii. Preparation of     the life of project.
Plan            Environmental       Plan.             Environmental
Management                            Impact            To be carried out
Plan, as a                            Assessment        during the first 3               1
condition of the                   iii. Preparation of  years of the
final water right,                   Environmental      project.
which accounts                       Management Plan
for the discovery                    which identifies
of threatened                        mitigation options                  |      _      .
endemic species  B. Implementing  i. Mitigation steps    To be carried out   'Tanesco,
the Updated       taken             after assignment of  NEMC, Other
Environmental  ii Mitigation steps    final water right.    stakeholders
Management        monitored
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  P lan.  l _I__ _



Tanzania, Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project                                                  27
Technical Annex
. Institutional    |To implement a   A. Regulatory    i. Public        For the first3 3   NEMC,
Strengthening   i program of       Framework for    consultations       years of the project  MOWLD
institutional      Enviromunental lii. Publication/
|capacity       | Manageinent         dissemination of
Ibuilding which  IEIA E regulations III
results in a     B. Awareness    i. Informnation        Through the life of  NEMC,
coordinated         Raising           dissemination     the project        MOWLD
system at the                         about water
national level of                     policy
environmental                     ii. Public
and water                             consultations
resources        C. Capacity      i. Introduced         Through the life of  UDSM,
management          Building and     program in         the project.       Tanesco,
Training          Conservation                         MEM, VPO
Biology,
University of Dar
es Salaam
ii. Overseas
Postgraduate
training,
Environmental
management
iii. Provide support
for the
establishment of
environmental
units in Ministry
of Energy and
|Minerals and
Tanesco through
skills
development
iv. Short courses,
Environmental
Compliance/
Habitat
management
v. Targeted
workshops/
conferences






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31 306
TANZANIA                           1 _ ' TA   /PtuIcYA 1pl 430MX \.                                ~~~~~~~~~~~K E N Y A
LOWER KIHANSI ENVIRONMENTAL                                                              ,'RWANDA ,              ,/C             MARA '> '                                                  '
MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                            t-        AGERAts -   K--I -;'°       ILOMETERSl1~6
Ta ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 5 Ora                                                                              0 *r% *R   E.g,  . , ,              EGO AIASi >w/     ~      _0r    n      i
. _ 5 _ l' _ 4200A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.D                                                                                              NDIASOE\Nz
w   )    TANESCO   0  1  2  1    Unmeasured   - . - , - V               -               MHALALA:                 tVk
/1 ; KiLO/iETER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sflw(ikl   ^  .UnGIDasue 
| ToMlimbc ;(;   .8   1bs'smop_wp/=MopDes000ildwrviw0dr0i    0 5-0 7m3/sec1   ;  .  >  -          Row*D   MA
Ukani~~~~~~ M--                                                                                                                                                                          OCEANed71pimh,7W hWsl8n
Village1                                                                                                                                              , Loopoetetn        K  ;,Xt:!d   vi.rn  iue.   nlwnohKhniogbfracFedmorto  wAC2



