Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3546-1-TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 7, 2007
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3546-1-TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated December 7, 2007, entered into between UNITED REPUBLIC 
OF TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to two 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 
the Recipient has adopted the revised Project Implementation Manual, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 9111 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 Tanzania 
 Facsimile 
 
(255) 222 11 7790 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
Ramadhani 
Mussa 
Khijjah 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
John 
Murray 
McIntire 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to support the 
Recipient’s efforts to implement a 
series of measures for the long-term conservation of the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem and 
upstream catchment, through the development of a coordinated and consistent legal and 
institutional framework for environmental and water resources management. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional activity 
under Part A: 
Part A
:
Habitat and Species Conservation and Management
Developing and implementing the re-introduction plan of the Kihansi Spray Toad 
to their natural habitat, establishing a local facility for captive-bred Kihansi Spray Toad 
and supporting the captive breeding program of the Kihansi Spray Toad in the United 
States of America zoos.  
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Steering Committee 
a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, the Steering Committee, comprising, 
inter alia
,
the 
Permanent Secretaries of VPO, MW, MNRT, MEM, MOF, MoJCA, the 
Regional Administrative Secretary for Iringa and Morogoro regions, the 
Director General of NEMC and the Managing Director of TANESCO, or 
their representatives.  
b) 
The Steering Committee shall be responsible for providing overall 
guidance for the successful implementation of the Project. 
2. 
MTAC 
a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, the MTAC.  
b) 
The MTAC shall be, 
inter alia
 responsible for: (i) assisting NEMC carry 
out day-to-day coordination of the Project; (ii) providing technical 
guidance and overseeing implementation of selected Project activities; 
(iii) undertaking sectoral and cross-sectoral coordination of selected 
Project activities; (iv) organizing coordinated discussions on technical 
issues relevant to the Project; and (v) assessing and recommending 
technical expertise needed to implement various Project activities.  
c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of 
 
this paragraph, specifically with respect to the establishment 
 
of TANESCO Final Water Right, the MTAC shall be responsible, 
inter 
alia,
 for: (i) coordinating further investigations of the scope for  
a
modified environmental flow regime; (ii) making recommendations  
to NEMC and to the Steering Committee on the environmental flow 
regime and its implications for water rights, operating conditions and 
criteria; (iii) making recommendations to NEMC, the Steering 
Committee and the RBWO for effective monitoring and enforcement  
of the TANESCO Final Water Right; and (iv) making recommendations 
for the establishment of a transparent mechanism for monitoring and 
enforcing compliance with TANESCO Final Water Right. 
Page  8
7
3. 
NEMC 
a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, the NEMC.  
b) 
The NEMC, shall 
inter alia
,
be
responsible for: (i) day-to-day 
implementation of the Project, including responsibility for financial 
management and procurement; and (ii) preparing Annual Work Plans 
satisfactory to the Association.  
4. 
Kihansi Environmental Center 
a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, the Kihansi Environmental Center.  
b) 
The Kihansi Environmental Center shall be, 
inter alia
,
responsible  
for, under the direction of NEMC and with the assistance of 
 
MTAC, carrying the environmental monitoring and coordination 
 
of activities under the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Environmental Safeguards  
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the environmental 
guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the Updated Environmental 
Management Plan, and shall not amend, waive, or permit to be waived, the 
Updated Environmental Management Plan, or any provision of the Updated 
Environmental Management Plan, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially or adversely affect the content, scope or efficacy of 
the updated Environmental Management Plan, and implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (a) all measures for carrying out the 
recommendations of the Updated Environmental Management Plan are taken in a 
timely manner; and (b) the Project Reports referred to in Section II.A of this 
Schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring the measures defined 
in the Updated Environmental Management Plan. 
D. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
1. 
The Recipient shall revise the Project Implementation Manual 
 
(including a financial manual) in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, setting out details of all procedures and guidelines 
 
Page  9
8
(including procurement and/or contract management procedures) to be followed 
in the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the revised Project 
Implementation Manual (provided, however, that in case of any conflict between 
the arrangements and procedures set out in the revised Project Implementation 
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement 
shall prevail) and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the revised Project Implementation 
Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement 
of Project objectives.  
E. 
Annual Work Plan  
1.
 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 
March 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project, an Annual Work 
Plan in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, containing all eligible 
Project activities and expenditures planned for the following fiscal year. 
2. 
The Recipient shall not make or allow to be made any material change to the 
Annual Work Plan without prior approval of the Association. 
F.
 
Sub-projects
 
1. 
General 
The Recipient shall identify, appraise, approve and monitor Sub-projects and 
administer the Sub-grants in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred 
to in this Part F and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual. 
2. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-grants 
 
A Sub-project shall be carried out pursuant to a Sub-project Agreement, under 
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, and described or referred to in 
more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall, 
inter alia
,
include 
the following:  
(a) 
the description of the activities to be implemented, including 
 
the outputs and performance targets to be achieved, and the arrangements 
for monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the Sub-project; 
(b) 
the modalities of transfer of funds for the financing of the Sub-project; 
(c) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
Page  10
9
environmental, financial, and managerial practices satisfactory to the 
Association, including in accordance with the provisions of the 
 
Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds 
other than the Recipient; (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures relating to the Sub-project and 
at the Association’s or the 
Recipient’s request, have such financial statements audited 
 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the 
Recipient and the Association; and (C) maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress of the Sub-project 
and the achievement of its objectives; 
(d) 
the requirement that the goods and consultants’ services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-project Agreement shall be procured  
in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, and shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; and 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient, to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-grant, or obtain a refund of all 
or any part of the amount of the Sub-grant then withdrawn, upon the 
Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the  
Sub-project Agreement; (ii) inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods and consultants’ 
services included in the Sub-project, the use thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; and (iii) obtain all information as it, or the 
Association, shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation and financial conditions of Sub-projects. 
3. 
Administration of Sub-project Agreements
 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Agreement in such 
manner as to protect its interests and those of the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-project 
Agreement or any substantial provision thereof.   
 
Page  11
10
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of three months, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered 
by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
Implementation of a Kihansi Gorge ecosystem monitoring 
program which, among other things, develops technical 
standards for monitoring flora and fauna populations in the 
Gorge, evaluates the effectiveness of various mitigation 
measures already under implementation, and which recommends 
new mitigation measures as needed. 
(ii) 
Implementation of measures to improve the conservation status 
of the Kihansi Gorge ecosystem, and to restore critical habitats 
where this is possible and cost-effective. 
(iii) 
Establishment of the criteria and the mechanisms for 
reintroducing threatened endemic species, such as the Kihansi 
Spray Toad, to the Kihansi Gorge, or to other appropriate 
habitats. 
(iv) 
Implementation of a landscape-wide conservation and 
catchment area management plan which considers upstream 
catchment protection and its impact on the Kihansi Gorge. 
(v) 
Strengthening of the capacity and the institutional basis for 
conserving threatened habitats and species in Tanzania, and for 
training future researchers, natural resource managers, and 
decision makers in conservation biology. 
(vi) 
Implementation of a framework for monitoring and enforcing 
compliance with the final water right. 
(vii) 
Implementation of an updated Environmental Management Plan, 
which accounts for threatened endemic species in the Kihansi 
Gorge ecosystem. 
Page  12
11
(viii)  Dissemination of proposed national environmental impact 
assessment guidelines. 
(ix) 
Addressing capacity-building needs which are identified as a 
result of a capacity needs assessment with respect to 
environmental decision making specific to the question of water 
resources and the environment. 
(x) 
Strengthening of the institutional and regulatory framework for 
environmental management, in particular, by improving the 
capacity for implementing Environment Impact Assessment 
regulations, and for monitoring, regulating, and enforcing legal 
provisions related to environmental quality objectives. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than June 30, 2009. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than one month after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
Page  13
12
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  14
13
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Quality Based Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Single Source Selection 
(f)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
 
Recipient, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the 
Association: (a) each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$300,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
or National Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$250,000 
or more procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more; (d) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$50,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on single source basis. 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  15
14
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
 Civil Works 
    50,000  
 
95%  
 
(2) 
Goods and Equipment 
     95,000  
 
100% 
 
(3) Consultants’ 
1,130,000 
 
100% 
 
 
Services and Training, including 
 audit 
fees 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
640,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
129,000 
 
(6a) 
Grants to District Councils 
60,000 
 
100% 
 
(6b) 
Grants to District Communities 
196,000 
 
100% 
 
________
2,300,000 
 TOTAL 
======= 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures incurred under Category 6(a) and 
Category 6 (b) unless the Beneficiaries have met the criteria and 
conditions specified in the revised Project Implementation Manual, as 
shall be evidenced through the first five Sub-project Agreements 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  16
15
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
Incremental Counterpart
 
Funding  
1. 
The Recipient shall provide adequate amounts, satisfactory to the Association, 
within the annual MTEF budget towards implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that NEMC and TANESCO provide adequate 
amounts, satisfactory to the Association, within their annual budget towards 
implementation of the Project. 
B. 
TANESCO Final Water Right 
 
The Recipient shall, through monitoring by RBWO, ensure that TANSECO 
complies with the provisions of the TANESCO Final Water Right, and in 
particular, with the provisions dealing with minimum by pass flow and flushing 
of the reservoir. 
C. 
Procurement Management Unit 
 
The Recipient shall, not later than three months after the Effective Date, establish 
a
Procurement Management Unit, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, within NEMC as required by the Public Procurement Act. 
D. 
Procurement Data Management System 
1. 
The Recipient shall, not later than three months after the Effective Date, establish 
a
Procurement Data Management System consisting of a proper contracts register 
and adequate space for storage of procurement records, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, within three months of the Effective Date, impart training 
satisfactory to the Association, to sufficient NEMC staff on procurement filing 
and record keeping. 
E. Procurement 
Specialist 
 
The Recipient shall, not later than three months after the Effective Date, retain a 
procurement specialist with qualifications satisfactory to the Association, to 
provide support to and build capacity of NEMC staff for at least twelve months 
in procurement related matters. 
 
Page  17
16
F. 
Landscape Wide Conservation Plan 
 
The Recipient shall maintain and implement the Landscape Wide Conservation 
Plan relating to catchment management for the protection of the Kihansi Gorge 
ecosystem and improvement of the water quality of the Lower Kihansi river, and 
shall not, without the prior approval of the Association in writing, amend the 
Landscape Wide Conservation Plan or waive any provision thereof in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect the 
content, scope or efficacy of the Landscape Wide Conservation Plan. 
Page  18
17
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing October
 
15,
2017
 
to and including 
April 15, 2027 
1% 
commencing October
 
15,
2027 to and including 
April 15, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  19
18
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Annual Work Plan” means the plan referred to in Part E.1 of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means a District Council or Community (as hereinafter defined) 
which meets the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual, as 
amended, and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-grant (as hereinafter defined) 
is made or proposed to be defined. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Community” means a single village, or a significant portion thereof, with 
common investment interest, located in the Kihansi catchments area upstream to 
the Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric Power reservoir. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
7. 
“District” means the administrative areas of Kilombero, Mufindi and Kilolo, 
established pursuant to Section 6 of the Recipient’s Regions and Districts 
(Establishment Procedures) Act 1994, Act No. 12 of 1994, representing a 
designated area and population of the Recipient; 
8. 
“District Council” means the council established for a district pursuant to the 
provision of Section 5 of the Recipient’s Local Government (District Authorities) 
Act 1982, Act No. 7 of 1982 to exercise jurisdiction over a district. 
9. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, and adopted by the Recipient as set forth in the 
Original Financing Agreement (hereinafter defined). 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
11. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means building, equipment and vehicle 
maintenance costs, fuel, office supplies, building rental charges, utilities, and 
Page  20
19
telecommunications costs, Project support staff,
 
travel expenses including per 
diems related to monitoring and data collection efforts
,
but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Recipie
nt’s civil service. 
12. 
“Kihansi Environmental Center” means the environmental center and monitoring 
station based at the Kihansi Gorge and comprising, 
inter alia
,
field researchers 
and monitoring experts, referred to in Part A.4 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
13. 
“Landscape Wide Conservation Plan” means the landscape-wide conservation 
and catchment management plan referred to in Part F.1 of Section V of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
14. 
“MEM” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy and Minerals. 
15. 
“MNRT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. 
16. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
17. 
“MoJCA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. 
18. 
“MTAC” means Multisectoral Technical Advisory Committee, established and 
operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient,
 
and comprising, 
inter alia
,
representatives of MNRT, MW, MEM, MOF, VPO, MoJCA, NEMC, and 
TANESCO, referred to in Part A.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
19. 
“MTEF” means the Medium Term Expenditure Framework for dealing with 
budgetary allocations for various sectors of the economy adopted by the 
Recipient. 
20. 
“MW” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Water. 
21. 
“NEMC” means the National Environment Management Council, established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Environmental Management Act No. 20 of 
2004,
 
referred to in Part A.3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
22. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for a 
Lower Kihansi Environmental Management Project between the Recipient and 
the Association, dated July 9, 2001 as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No. 3546 TA). 
23. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
24. 
“Procurement Data Management System” means the procurement management 
data system referred to in Part D.1 of Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  21
20
25. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
26. 
“Procurement Management Unit” means the procurement management unit 
referred to in Part C of Section V of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
27. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated July 23, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
28. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, setting for the implementation arrangements for the Project, 
including financial management, disbursement and procurement arrangements, 
and guidelines and procedures for the financing of the Sub-grants, as the same 
may be amended from time-to-time with the concurrence of the Association, and 
such term includes any schedules thereto. 
29. 
“Public Procurement Act” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act No. 21 
of 2004, of the laws of the Recipient.  
30. 
“RBWO” means Rufiji Basin Water Office, established and operating pursuant to 
Water Utilization and Control Act 1974, Number 42. 
31. 
“Steering Committee” means the steering committee, established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Recipient, and comprising, 
inter alia
,
the Permanent 
Secretaries of VPO, MW, MNRT, MEM, MOF, the MoJCA, the Regional 
Administrative Secretary for Iringa and Morogoro regions, the Director General 
of NEMC and the Managing Director of TANESCO, or their representatives, 
referred to in Part A.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
32. 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or to be made out of the proceeds of the 
Financing for the purpose of financing Eligible Expenditures required for a  
Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of Part F of Section I of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement for an eligible Sub-project. 
33. 
“Sub-project” means a set of specific activities carried out or to be carried out by 
a
Beneficiary under Part A.1 of the Original Financing Agreement which meets 
the criteria specified in the revised Project Implementation Manual, and financed 
or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing through a 
 
Sub-grant. 
34. 
“Sub-project Agreement” means an agreement entered into, or to be entered into, 
between the Recipient, and a Beneficiary, for the purpose of extending a  
Page  22
21
Sub-grant to such Beneficiary which meets the criteria specified in the revised 
Project Implementation Manual and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to Part F.2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
35. 
“TANESCO” means Tanzania Electric Supply Company, a company registered 
and operating under the laws of the Recipient. 
36. 
“TANESCO Final Water Right” means the final water right award to be granted 
by the Recipient to TANESCO related to the operation of the Lower Kihansi 
hydropower plant.  
37. 
“Training” means the costs associated with the training of personnel involved  
in Project supported activities including travel and subsistence costs for training 
participants, costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental  
of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other 
costs directly related to course preparation and implementation. 
38. 
“Updated Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental 
management plan dated April 2004 and relating to the operation of the Lower 
Kihansi hydropower plant and the management of the Kihansi gorge ecosystem, 
satisfactory to the Association, updated and adopted by the Recipient as set forth 
in the Original Financing Agreement and referred to in Part C of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
39. 
“VPO” means the Recipient’s Vice President’s Office. 
 
