Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22398
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28370)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
June 22, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Exchange Rate = US$ 1 = Rs 49.50 at Project Appraisal
US$ 1 = Rs 89.59 at Project Closing
FISCAL YEAR
July June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FMMS                 Frequency Management and Monitoring System
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
ICT                  Information and Communications Technologies
IDA                  Intemational Development Association
MCT                  Multi-Purpose Community Telecenters
MOPT                 Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
MTR                  Mid-Term Review
PCD                  Project Concept Document
PERC                 Public Enterprise Reform Commission
PMEAC                Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit
SAR                  South Asia Region
SLT                  Sri Lanka Telecommunications
SLTA                 Sri Lanka Telecommunications Authority
SLTL                 Sri Lanka Telecommunications Ltd.
TRC                  Telecommunications Regulatory Commission
WLL                  Wireless Local Loop
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Mariana Todorova
Sector Director:    Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ritin Singh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
(P042263)-
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Information                                                           13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                23
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                            24
Annex 9. Frequency Management and Monitoring System                                  30
Annex 10. Telecommunications Sector Policy Implementation                            31
Annex 11. Telecommunications Operators                                               33
Annex 12. Telecommunications Services Development                                    34
Annex 13. Basic Telephone Service Supply and Demand                                  35
Annex 14. Quality of Service Indicators                                              36
Annex 15. Telephone Service Main Tariffs                                             37
Annex 16. TRC Use of Consultants                                                     38
Annex 17. PERC Consulting and Marketing Services                                     39
Annex 18. Schedule of Disbursements                                                  41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P042263                                       Project Name: TELECOM REG & PUBL..
Team Leader: Ritin Singh                                  TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TELECOM REG & PUBL..                           L/CITFNumber: IDA-28370
Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                            Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development; BR - Public
Enterprise Reform; CC - Telecommunications &
Informatics; DI - Private Infrastructure
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/21/94                                Effective:
Appraisal:  04/10/95                                  MTR:                       06/01/98
Approval:  11/10/95                                Closing:  12/31/99            12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementingAgency:  GOSL/SLTA & PERC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Mariana Todorova                           Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager:      Alastair J. Mckechnie                      Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:   Ritin Singh                               Mihkel Sergo
ICR Primary Author:   Ritin Singh
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HTJN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to reform the telecommunications sector focusing on promoting private
investrnents, operation and competition, and support the divestiture of state-owned enterprises. The



telecommunications component supported the strengthening of sector regulation, including the efficient
allocation and use of the radio frequency spectrum. The main objective of the Public Policy Enterprise
Reform Commission (PERC) component was to facilitate the privatization of state-owned enterprises by
providing expert advice and strengthening the technical and adriinistrative capacity of PERC.
The project objectives clearly and realistically addressed the reform program that the Govermnent
undertook for the development of the telecommunications sector. The limitations placed on the
telecommunications regulator, Sri Lanka Telecommunications Authority (SLTA), as a department of the
Ministry of Post Telecommunications (MOPT) indicated the need to change the regulatory structure. The
telecommunications policy was defined in 1995 and included the conversion of SLTA into a more
independent Commission with operational and administrative autonomy. The new regulatory framework
aimed at adopting transparent procedures for licensing of operators, interconnection rules, and sound
cost-based pricing principles, and providing regulatory certainty to investors.
The Government also planned to transform Sri Lanka Telecommunications (SLT) into a commercially
operated and fully autonomous entity, incorporated under the Companies Act. The reform of public
enterprises, including SLTA and a large number of public enterprises in other sectors, was to be undertaken
by PERC, as authorized by the Public Enterprises Reform Commission of Sri Lanka Act No. I of 1996.
The above objectives were in line with the assistance provided by IDA in the first and second
telecommunication projects and with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was linked to
Government commitment and progress in reforming the policy and institutional framework.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two main components:
(a)    Technical assistance for the strengthening of SLTA, including:
(i)  A Frequency Management and Monitoring System (FMMS), expert assistance during its
initial period of operation, and staff training; and
(ii) Consulting services to assist SLTA in selected studies on sector regulation and support in its
transformation into a more autonomous commission.
(b)    Assistance to PERC in financing consultants and financial advisors for specific transactions, and
strengthening of the PERC Secretariat (staff training, travel, office equipment, etc.)
Upon SLTA's conversion into Telecommunications Regulatory Commission (TRC) in 1996, it assumed
new regulatory functions, with the management structure of one Director General and five Commissioners.
This involved a complete reorganization of the regulator and the establishment of new procedures for
service pricing, network interconnection, quality and conditions of service, type approval of equipment,
technical standards, and others. The project provided for consultants to assist TRC in these various areas,
as well as training for its existing and new staff.
SLTA originally operated an FMMS that did not provide the necessary coverage and facilities to manage
the use of the spectrum in a multi-operator environment. The new FMMS was designed to incorporate
- 2 -



existing equipment and provided TRC with new licensing and monitoring tools to change fees for the use of
radio frequencies, and for ensuring the efficient allocation of a scarce resource. TRC also needed
assistance in the starting operations of the system and in training its operators.
To achieve PERC's project objectives, two groups of consultants were utilized to provide the expertise in
implementing the privatization program established by the Government. The first group consisted of
international specialists and consulting firms recruited to advise on specific transactions. Their main tasks
were to: (i) carry out studies for policy and strategy formulation, pre-reform packaging, and
implementation of privatization transactions; (ii) assess the past and current situation of the enterprises and
identify key issues to be resolved to facilitate restructuring and privatization; (iii) review the regulatory
framework; and (iv) assist PERC in preparing terms of reference, bidding documents and other tasks
leading to a sales closure. A second group of domestic consultants and experts would be hired to plan and
coordinate the Government's privatization program and act as counterparts to the international consultants.
In addition, for large transactions, investment banks would be retained to carry out the transaction. The
project also provided the PERC staff involved in privatization transactions with training in the form of
ad-hoc courses, seminars and study visits to foreign countries with relevant experience in the privatization
of public enterprises.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the Mid-Term Review in April-May 1998, it was noted that the initial cost estimates for the FMMS
were about 15 percent higher than the lowest price of the evaluated bids. Furthermore, TRC requested a
reduction in the scope of the system by eliminating three of the HF/MF stations and a VSAT network for
communications among the monitoring stations. The final system configuration is described in Annex 9.
The changes in the allocation of funds did not amount to a restructuring of the project and, therefore, were
not reported to the Executive Directors.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not reviewed by QAG for quality at entry. However, the project was reviewed under the
rapid assessment program and was found satisfactory. At the time of preparing this ICR, the quality at
entry of the telecommunications sector component and the privatization program component was
considered satisfactory.
The Project was designed in line with IDA's priorities and the Government's strong commitment to the
reform program. The design of the FMMS system and the preparation of the draft bidding documents was
completed before Credit effectiveness. To familiarize TRC staff with procedures to operate the FMMS, a
study trip to Canada was also undertaken. PERC's work on SLTA and Air Lanka, which were the main
enterprises in the privatization program, was progressing well at the time of project preparation. Given the
high level of ownership by the Government, no significant delays were experienced between Board
approval and Credit Effectiveness.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project outcome is satisfactory (see Key Performance Indicators in Annex 1 and Rating for
Achievements of Objectives/Outputs in Annex 5). It is well-recognized that the two most successful
institutions in Sri Lanka for implementing reforms have been TRC and PERC.
With IDA's support, the Government has been successful in creating a competitive, privately operated
- 3 -



telecommunications sector overseen by an independent regulatory agency. With the privatization of SLT
(now Sri Lanka Telecommunications Ltd., SLTL) and transfer of its management to a private operator, all
telecommunications services in Sri Lanka are now provided by priv4te operators. Competition has been
introduced in all service categories, except for intemational telephone services on which SLTL has a
monopoly until August 2002. In spite of these gains, rural access still remains an issue.
The introduction of competition and privatization has clearly had a major impact on the sector, which is
one of the fastest growing in the Sri Lankan economy. Private telecommunications investments increased
in an unprecedented manner (25 percent p.a.), with over US$ 2,900 million invested in Sri Lanka by the
operating companies between 1996-2000. The number of new jobs created jumped from about 700 in 1996
to over 3500 in 2000. In the last four years, fixed access telephony grew at an average of 32 percent p.a.
and the mobile service providers averaged about 57 percent p.a. While new operators continue to expand
and upgrade their services, SLTL also vigorously pursued an expansion plan with some projects funded by
the OECF, Japan, and a syndicated loan facility raised locally in 1998.
The PERC program has resulted in significant benefits to Sri Lanka. Besides the fiscal benefits, there has
been growth of several strategic sectors such as LPG Gas, Aviation, and Ports. It has attracted
internationally reputed investors, improved corporate governance, and developed capital markets. PERC,
however, has led a transaction approach to privatization where maximizing financial returns was given
priority over sector liberalization. The Government has granted temporary monopolies to newly privatized
industries such as Colombo Gas Company, SLTL (for intemational service until August 2002), Lanka
Orient and Air Lanka in order to maximize the returns on the equity divested. This limited the long term
goals of full competition, reducing prices and ensuring an open market to benefit consumers.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 SLTA/TRC Component
The outputs related to the telecommunications sector are satisfactory with the Government aggressively
advancing its reforms: (i) the Telecommunications Act was amended in September 1996; (ii) a regulatory
authority, TRC, was established in February 1997 separate from the MOPT; (iii) SLT was incorporated as
a Public limited liability company in September 1996 and 35 percent of its shares were sold to a strategic
investor, which took over SLT's operations under a management contract in August 1997; (iv) competition
was strengthened in several services (data transmission, Internet, payphones, etc.), and following
competitive bidding, two licenses were granted to Wireless Local Loop (WLL) operators in February 1996
for the provision of basic services; and (v) a process of rebalancing SLTL tariffs was initiated in 1998.
The Government's February 8, 1996 telecommunications policy and its implementation status is described
in Annex 10. The Action Plan accompanying the policy was completed on time, with the exception of a
study for tariff/demand and tariff rebalancing, which was subsequently undertaken by PERC and the
financial advisors.
The telecommunications infrastructure has been expanded and modernized due to increased private sector
participation and competition. Currently, there are six data transmission service providers, four cellular
telephone operators, two WLL operators, two payphone companies, two radio paging services and 14
Internet access service providers (see Annex 11). A specialized infrastructure provider leases circuits to
telecommunications and broadcast operators. As of December 2000, there were 645,000 subscribers
connected to SLTL; 111,000 WLL subscribers; and 395,144 cellular subscribers (see Annex 12), which
represents a mobile-to-fixed access ratio of 1.7. The fixed-access teledensity was 1.4 in 1996 and
increased to 4.01 in December 2000. With the additional access offered by cellular service operators, the
total telephone penetration was 6.3 percent per 100 population in 2000. The waiting list has not decreased,
- 4 -



and current estimates indicate (see Annex 13) that it will remain at the same level in the next five years. It
should be noted that as a percentage of total demand, the waiting list has decreased. Moreover, the waiting
time for a new connection from the private operators is about a week, and a few months from SLTL.
The Government originally made a commnitment to the World. Trade Organization (WTO) to remove the
monopoly on international telephone service by the end of 1999, subject to the completion of rate
balancing. However, this monopoly was extended by two years during negotiations with the strategic
investor in SLTL. Since privatization, SLTL has dramatically increased the total number of telephone
lines and plans to install another 80,000 telephones in 2001. SLTL has also invested about Rs. 44 billion
since 1997 in telecommunications infrastructure. This includes investments in an international
telecommunications gateway exchange, an undersea cable project and a 700 km fiber optic ring linking 15
urban centers.
Although TRC placed a high priority on quality of service, the indicators (see Annex 14) show a marginal
improvement and TRC still needs to establish better controls. The 1998 Tariff Determination for SLTL
has several quality of service (QOS) provisions conveying TRC's resolve to enhance quality as tariffs go
up.
Despite the sector liberalization and growth, rural access still needs to be addressed. SLTL's license and
management agreement, as well as the WLL licenses were crafted to ensure rollout, no formal universal
service (or access) obligations were imposed. Sixty percent of the telecommunications infrastructure is still
located in the Western province. There remains a need for a more balanced distribution of
telecommunications facilities. A study by TRC indicates that the lack of telephone facilities is the second
most important unmet need of rural Sri Lankans. TRC has plans for: (i) installing subsidized payphones in
rural areas; (ii) installing telephone facilities in over 800 post offices located in villages with no telephone
access; (iii) encouraging the WLL operators to expand their coverage faster in rural areas; and (iv)
providing Internet access and other communications means through rural tele-centers.
The Telecommunications Regulator
TRC consists of five members: its Chairman is the Secretary to MOPT and its Chief Executive is the
Director General of Telecommunications, appointed by the Minister. The other three members are from
law, finance and management also appointed by the Minister. TRC provide: (i) policy advice and license
recommendations to MOPT; (ii) fair, transparent, prompt and effective decision to operators; and (iii)
safeguards consumers interests. TRC finances its operations (including staff salaries) with its own
revenues, mainly license fees from operators and users of the radio frequency spectrum. Capital
expenditures are also met from this revenue, although require Government approval.
Whereas, the TRC started as a model regulator in the region, in the recent past it has had problems with
maintaining its independence and needs to be given complete autonomy. The new draft telecommunications
policy makes the same recommendations that TRC adapt to the changing environment (see para 6.2).
Furthermore, it appeared ineffective in the context of interconnection disputes between SLTL and the two
private WLL operators. SLTL initially refused to abide by TRC's determination in November 1998, and
referred the matter to the courts in March 1999. This highlighted certain shortfall in the existing
Telecommunications Act which does not provide TRC with adequate power to enforce its determinations.
Moreover, the prolonged interconnection dispute reduced confidence among operators and potential
investors in SLTL's planned IPO. It also revealed a contradiction between the Government's role as part
owner of SLTL and the conveyor of TRC. The District Court subsequently brought the issue to a close
with its ruling in August 2000 that SLTL ceased blocking the traffic of the WLLs, until a further enquiry
was made. This in effect compelled the parties concerned to abide by the earlier determination.
- 5-



TRC Institutional Development
The Government and Industry Canada (IC) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on September
29, 1997. The details were set out in a Financial and Administrative Agreement between TRC and IC and
approved by IDA. This agreement resulted in several critical institutional building initiatives by TRC to
improve its regulatory capacity and also expedited the procurernent of consulting services. TRC's
organizational structure was adjusted to adequately perform its functions of promoting competition,
mediating in the interconnection disputes between operators, regulating tariffs, supervising quality of
service, and promoting universal access to services.
A brief description of the Credit-financed studies undertaken by TRC is included in Annex 16.
Consultancy services on interconnection and Alternate Dispute Resolution procedures were initiated under
the MOU in May 1998. This was considered an urgent area as SLTL and the two WLL operators could
not agree on revenue sharing. Other studies dealt with quality of services, billing, competition issues,
emergency telecommunications systems, and public hearings. TRC also made extensive use of the Credit
for training its staff on regulatory matters and FMMS operation (see Annex 16). Training was also
provided by sending staff overseas and through domestic workshops conducted by international experts.
Frequency Management and Monitoring System
The Invitation for Bids for the FMMS took place on March 3, 1997 and a contract for this system was
signed in March 1999. The procurement of the FMMS was delayed about one year due to a reduction in
scope of the FMMS contract, agreed by IDA, which resulted in a proportional price reduction. As a result,
there were cost savings for this component of about US$ 2.0 million. With the expedited implementation
plan, TRC is now operating the FMMS as envisaged.
4.2.2 PERC Component
The structural reform program that the Government undertook since 1996 included deregulation and
privatization, in which they made significant progress. Many price controls (bread, petroleum, bus and rail
fares, telecommunications rates, and electricity are excluded) and quotas were eliminated, import licenses
liberalized, and import taxes terminated. A number of state-owned enterprises were divested in the
1996-2000 period and the Government realized approximately US$ 535 million from its enterprise reform
program (of which about US$ 225 million was from the SLTL privatization). On the whole, this project
component was implemented satisfactorily.
PERC used the Credit mainly to finance consultants that advised on strategy formulation, pre-reform
packaging, implementation of privatization transactions, and review of the regulatory framework in various
sectors. Government officials were sent overseas to study best practice examples on Postal, Pensions and
Insurance reform (see Annex 17).
In 1998, PERC sold 40 percent of Air Lanka to- Emirates Airlines and ceded management control to the
new owners. Similarly, management of SLTL, where the Government kept a 65 percent ownership, was
given to Nippon Telephone and Telegraph (NTT) in 1997. In particular, SLTL privatization helped boost
annual growth in the sector to 45 percent during 1998-1999. In 1995, the Government began privatizing
regional holding companies in the plantation sector (tea, rubber, and coconut). In 1995-1997, the
Government privatized 20 plantation companies under long-term lease arrangements, with most of these
companies listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Privatization of tea plantations boosted productivity
and helped Sri Lanka recapture its place as the world's leading tea exporter in 1997. Large proceeds from
these and other privatization efforts helped the Government to contain rising public debt. PERC also
privatized Colombo Gas Company Ltd., Lanka Orient [duty-free business], Ceylon Steel Ltd and the
- 6 -



Queen Elizabeth Quay in the Colombo Port. Divestment of Colombo Gas Company Ltd. facilitated
improved distribution of liquid petroleum gas and enhanced safety standards. The privatization of the
Queen Elizabeth Quay allowed for private participation in the container business, which was crucial to
keep the Colombo Port competitive in an environment where new more efficiently-run ports threaten to
capture the lucrative regional container traffic.
The Government still retains control over the ports, roads, the largest commercial banks, insurance
companies, a national shipping line, and many other companies. While improvements in regulation and
incentives have encouraged private participation in infrastructure, a renewed commitment to privatization is
needed to increase private sector investment. For example, privatization proceeds declined from US$ 380
million in 1997 to US$ 2.0 million in 2000 (see Annex 17), and there has been no major transaction during
the last three years. The Government has plans to sell an additional 10 percent stake SLTL and to
restructure several Government departments such as the Post, Railways, Ceylon Electricity Board,
National Water Supply and Drainage Board, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation and the National Insurance
Corporation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Neither a NPV nor an ERR were calculated for the project as it mainly provided technical assistance.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return has been prepared.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As reported earlier, the ability of the executing agencies to make effective use of the available human and
financial resources must be considered a significant achievement of this IDA operation. The institutional
development impact of the project is substantial.
TRC developed the capacity to implement the Government's sector reform program, including licensing of
new private operators and introduction of new services. The willingness of TRC to act coherently and
independently resulted in 38 licenses being issued. As a part of its institutional independence, TRC
finances its operations through its own revenues, mainly license fees from operators and users of the radio
frequency spectrum. The amendment of the 1991 Telecommunications Act in 1996 to strengthen the
regulator had a major impact on this development. As a result of the training of staff, and TA (study tours,
workshops, advisors and a MOU with Industry Canada) provided under the project, TRC was able to build
up its competence in specialized regulatory functions. The private sector's interest in starting up new
telecommunications operations in Sri Lanka indicated that they had confidence not only in the legal and,
institutional framework, but also the new regulatory regime that TRC was developing.
PERC developed substantial expertise under the project in handling both simple and complex transactions
related to the privatization of state enterprises. PERC utilized consultants to assist in carrying out the
privatization program established by the Govermment. While international investments banks, consulting
firms and specialists advised on sector specific transactions, PERC staff planned and coordinated the
privatization program and acted as competent counterparts. Over time, this led to building transaction and
sector specific skills at the agency. The project provided for training of staff involved in privatization
transactions through ad-hoc brief courses and seminars and study visits to foreign countries with relevant
experience in the privatization of public enterprises.
- 7 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although TRC was given the responsibility for the procurement activities of the FMMS, the final decision
to award the contract had to be taken by the Cabinet, which added to the delays in evaluating the bids
received.
Over the years, IDA has insisted on the importance of an impartial and independent regulator. Investments
made by the new operators to establish or expand their networks, require a regulatory environment that
ensures fair competition and provides tools for enforcing interconnection determinations. In this context,
IDA recommended: (i) a review of the Telecommunications Act to provide TRC with stronger
enforcement mechanisms; (ii) staggered appointment of Commissioners; and (iii) more institutional
independence. To address the demands of a competitive sector structure, TRC has responded by preparing
a new draft telecommunications policy and corporate plan. MOPT and TRC are also preparing a new
Telecommunications Act to give it additional powers to enforce its determinations.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
TRC Staff TRC was established in February 1997, but its organizational structure, staffing requirements,
and salaries were determined and approved to the Government only in late 1997. There was also a delay in
recruiting technical staff that were to be trained for operating the FMMS.
FMMS. Procurement of FMMS was primarily subject to TRC control that caused considerable delay in
installation and the corresponding disbursements. During the initial months of project implementation,
SLTA devoted attention to urgent activities related to sector reform: conversion into an independent
Commission (TRC), licensing of WLL operators, and searching for a strategic partner and divestiture of
SLT's equity. It did not have the resources to finalize the bidding documents for the FMMS within the
original time frame agreed with IDA. TRC retained a consultant to review and finalize the specifications,
and the final bidding documents were sent for IDA clearance in December 1996. Bids were received in
July 1997, but changes to the scope of the system produced further delays in project implementation and
Odisbursements. The contract was finally signed in March 1999, with TRC having agreed with the
contractor to expedite implementation to recuperate some of the lost time. This, however, is symptomatic
of delays in procurement and the award of contracts in Sri Lanka. This also contributed to low levels of
initial disbursements, which highlights the urgent need to reform tender procedures in the interest of
expeditious procurement.
Tariff Study. IDA recommended that consultants with experience in a competitive, multi-operator
environment be retained for a tariff study to provide TRC with guidelines to establish interconnection, and
revenue sharing arrangements between SLT and other operators. While this study was not conducted as
originally envisaged, PERC did undertake it during the SLTL privatization process.
Extension of the Credit Closing Date. The Closing Date was extended by one year to give TRC the
opportunity to address some rural telecommunications issues. Additional training and consultancies for
preparing a new Telecommunications Policy and Corporate Plan were also completed. TRC also dealt with
some additional pressing policy issues, such as the studying of options for licensing other international
- 8 -



gateway operators in 2002, streamlining spectrum usage in the broadcast sector, and following up on
activities started in 1998-1999: fixed-mobile interconnection procedures, cost reporting studies, and quality
of service rules, etc.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project's original cost, based on mid-1995 price levels was estimated at US$ 21.6 million, with a
foreign component of US$ 12.6 million. The original and final project costs, as well as the financing
sources used, are shown in Annexes 2a, 2b, and 2c. The actual project cost was about 25 percent higher
than estimated at appraisal, with the difference funded directly by the Government. Foreign expenditures
that had been committed by the Credit's closing date, amounting to US$ 10.34 million were financed by the
Credit before closing. The foreign cost savings of about US$ 4.2 million were primarily due to a reduction
of the scope of the FMMS component, as explained in 3.4 above. The delays in awarding a contract for
the FMMS resulted in almost 50 percent of the disbursements made after June 1999 (see Annex 18).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's achievements is highly likely. The policy reforms introduced for
liberalizing the sector are irreversible and will continue to increase private participation and competition.
Particularly noteworthy with this regard include the amendment of the Telecommunications Act in 1996,
the conversion of TRC into a more independent commission, SLTL's privatization, and the number of new
licensed private operators who have established competitive networks and services. Based on its policy
commitments, WTO agreements, and the management contract with the strategic investor in SLTL, the
Government also intends to terminate SLTL's exclusivity on international telephone service by August
2002. Given the dynamism in the sector and new emerging issues that TRC will have to deal with, its
regulatory focus will need to be constantly realigned to the needs of the market. Meanwhile, under the
project, the building blocks of an effective regulatory regime for the telecommunications sector were put in
place.
Further implementation of the privatization program by PERC will depend on the maintenance of credible
and firm macroeconomic policies, the creation of appropriate regulatory framework in various sectors, and
a strong Government commitment to reform.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Telecommunications Policy. Much has been achieved in the past few years in strengthening TRC and the
regulatory regime. However, it is now time to adapt TRC's organization and focus to the conditions
created by increased competition, and to prepare it for full competition by August 2002. With the
assistance of consultants, TRC has prepared a new national Telecommunications Policy and Corporate
Plan that will guide its activities in the near future. It is also necessary to amend the Telecommunications
Act to take into account the new market conditions and make necessary adjustments. Some of the
recommendations in the new draft policy include:
*   Transformation of the telecommunications market structure and regulation toward a more
technology-neutral model, with no restrictions on cross-ownership of multiple network and services;
* Opening of international telephone services after August 2002, with no predeternined limit on the
-9-



number of licensees;
*   Establishment of an explicit Universal Access policy to promote access to the services made possible
by the new information and communications technologies (ICT) in rural areas;
*   Support to the establishment and promotion of an Information Infrastructure;
*   Obligations for licensed operators to contribute to universal access and creation of a Rural
Telecommunications Development Fund with options for operators to contribute financially or through
in-kind investments;
*   Encourage a program of rolling out Multi-purpose Community Telecenters (MCT);
*   Creating a greater independence and authority to TRC to regulate the telecommunications sector,
including ICT services; and
*   Further strengthening of TRC with additional responsibilities for enforcing quality of service, consumer
protection, and its determinations. The internal functioning and organization of TRC should reflect
private sector standards and be able to attract and retain top-quality staff.
Interconnection. Resolution of disputes between operators has proven to be especially troublesome. As
per the existing Telecommunications Act, TRC has adopted a policy to induce operators to arrive at
interconnection agreements on their own. The regulator must, however, be supported with stronger
enforcement authority to deal with cases where the operators are not able to reach an agreement. TRC has
prepared amendments to the Telecommunications Act which include appropriate provisions in this regard.
On the technical aspects, TRC must develop additional expertise and issue rules to ensure that operators
adopt network standards and designs, which allow full interoperability or seamless interconnection.
Competition in International Telephone Service. IDA has raised with TRC the need to prepare well in
advance for the introduction of competition at the end of SLTL's monopoly in August 2002. TRC will
require assistance from external consultants to examine issues and options, and develop appropriate rules
and procedures for licensing new operators.
Spectrum Management and Monitoring. The Government approved the necessary positions for
technicians and engineers to undertake the regulatory functions. To continue this activity, TRC must
conduct additional staff training courses.
Given the nature of its mandate on privatization transactions, no special transition arrangements have been
agreed with PERC. However, a new phase of enterprise reforms has been planned by PERC including
restructuring of the insurance sector, postal reforms, an additional 10 percent divestiture of SLTL, six
IPOs in plantations, Ceylon Hotels Corp., graphite companies, livestock farms, and sugar manufacturers.
PERC also intends on focusing on improving corporate governance, initiating new pricing policies, and
regulations, and encouraging competition in selected sectors.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA performnance at identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The project
- 10 -



team built on the relationship developed between IDA and the Government (including the MOPT and
SLTL) during the implementation of previous IDA-financed projects and studies. The staff mix and
continuity during these preparatory stages was satisfactory, as well as the assistance provided to the
Borrower for preparation of technical specifications of the proposed FMMS. The project was appraised
prior to the requirement for financial management specialist participation during project preparation. The
time spent for appraisal was adequate and was lower than other similar projects. All technical, financial,
economic, and institutional aspects were reviewed carefully and taken into account in the project scope.
Project risks were adequately identified, namely a possible delay in the amendment to the 1991
Telecommunications Act and conversion of SLTA into a Commission, the lack of suitable staff for the
telecommunications regulator, procurement procedures affecting the proper functioning of the FMMS, and
likely opposition to the privatization program.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's overall supervision effort was satisfactory and supervision was regularly carried out. There were
seven missions (see Annexes 4a and 4b) fielded during the life of the project, including a Mid-Term
Review in April/May 1998. Implementation progress was adequately reported, implementation problems
were identified early, and prompt assistance was given or offered to the Borrower to solve the problems.
The country based financial management officer was involved in the supervision of the project, particularly
in the review and follow up of audit reports. No significant financial management issues arose in the
project. In line with the main objectives of the project, special attention was given to the institutional
aspects, since strengthening the executing agencies was a major objective to ensure the development and
implementation of reforms. However, the number and duration of missions decreased toward the end of the
project due to budget constraints. This affected the necessary reform dialog with the Government and the
executing agencies, and the preparation of the ICR. The discussions for the preparation of the ICR, and
most of the analytical data and arrangements for follow-up activities were conducted electronically.
No significant deviations from IDA policies and procedures occurred during project implementation. When
deviations were detected in the procurement procedures, they were discussed and corrected with no major
impact on implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall IDA performance was satisfactory. Given the long established relationship in the sector, IDA staff
worked closely with the Government and the implementing agencies to facilitate telecommunications sector
reform, strengthen the regulator, and accelerate the privatization of state enterprises by providing all
necessary assistance to PERC. Project modifications, including an extension of the Credit closing date,
were processed efficiently by the IDA team.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The quality of the Borrower's commitment was notable. The contribution of the Government and the
implementing agencies to project preparation was highly effective, notwithstanding initial inexperience of
SLTA in regulatory matters within a competitive sector, and in the design and operation of a modem
FMMS. The staff initially attached to the project were transferred from MOPT, and only at a later stage
could the regulator appoint suitable high-level managers. PERC had also been recently created and was
actively involved in project preparation. The Government took the necessary steps to organize within the
- 11 -



implementing agencies, and establish procurement operations, project accounts and reporting systems.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government remained committed to the objectives of the project during the implementation period, and
was very successful in implementing its policies for the telecommunications sector and privatization. This
created a conducive climate to foster private financing of infrastructure in spite of an uncertain external
environment, and domestic political and security risks.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation performance of TRC and PERC was satisfactory. However, better performance could
have been achieved by TRC in the procurement of the FMMS had there not been a change in the scope of
the system, and the need for Cabinet approvals. Installing the system at a later stage of the project cycle
makes its difficult to fully assess the impact on the management of the radio spectrum. Training of staff
for operation of the FMMS was subsequently delayed as a result of the procurement delay.
Given the large number of transactions concluded by PERC, the progress of the privatization program was
significant. PERC also gained considerable experience and built expertise while undertaking these
transactions. This should allow for accelerating the reform program if the market and other internal and
extemal factors permit. Despite the slowdown in reforms in 1999 due to political uncertainty during the
election cycle, some progress was made in areas such as privatization (Air Lanka), liberalization of the
ports and power sector reform.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance and participation in project preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. The reform of the telecommunications sector was timely, a regulatory regime was established,
and TRC became a stronger entity whose authority is now well recognized. The Borrower is also
committed, on the basis of the project, to strengthen TRC in view of the conditions that will prevail after
2002 with full liberalization of service provision. Similarly, PERC was legally established in a timely
manner and given strong support to undertake privatization transactions.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons to be drawn from the implementation of this project are the following:
* While emphasis could have been placed on the importance of a complete institutional separation of
TRC from MOPT, in spite of intensive training and independent budgets, building a long term
sustainable regulatory and institutional capacity in newly created entities takes time;
*   A strong display of Government commitment is crucial in attracting private investors, however, the
issue of maximizing privatizatiori proceeds at the expense of full competition could have been
addressed by PERC. In spite of intensive dialog within the Government and various stakeholders,
SLTL was given an extension on its international monopoly to August 2002 by PERC. While to some
extent the transaction focus of PERC could not be avoided, it is clear that benefits of competition
needed to be highlighted;
*   Proper implementation of sector reforms and market liberalization, followed by transparent
- 12 -



privatization transactions, have successfully resulted in substantial private investment in-flows in the
telecommunications sector. Introducing transparency in the divestment and licensing process through
international competitive bidding helped identify the most appropriate partners and operators;
*   Reforms could have focused more on rural access by stipulating roll out obligations and service targets
in operating licenses. This still remains a pending issue, in spite of the developments and growth in the
sector;
*   Radical sector reform takes time and continued involvement in a sector provided IDA with the
opportunity to support step by step reforms under various governments. IDA can play a useful role in
supporting politically unpopular reform initiatives;
*   Patience and flexibility on behalf of IDA regarding project objectives and conditionality may be
justified to overcome labor and other opposition to changes, provided the Government is committed in
the longer term to sector reform;
*   The successful private operation of value-added and other marginal telecommunications services
created new job opportunities and reduced staff fears of privatization. It provides comfort to potential
investors, as a track record of commercial operations and a working legal and regulatory framnework
had been established;
o   Labor unions were involved at an early stage of reform and their concerns addressed to reduce
resistance to change;
-   The Project team had continuity from identification to completion. This continuity of Project staff
contributed to making IDA's support for sector reform effective and credible;
*   There could have been a better-structured technical training program early in implementation, before
proceeding with complex procurement activities such'as for the FMMS. The initial lack of qualified
personnel in TRC could have been one of the reasons for the delays in the procurement of this system;
and
- The provision of timely and quality technical advice to PERC for various privatization transactions,
and to TRC on telecommunication reforms, as well as their capacity for using and absorbing the TA,
contributed to the overall success and sustainability of the Project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borr owser/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.
(bi Ct7financiers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs4private sector):
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorsALog Frame Matrix
OutputfImpact Indicators
0 '   Iadl diii_ -~  - T-" Protectid in Techial Anneiixett I         Actu/Latest Estimste   Va
1. PRojECT IMPLEMENTATION (Project as a whole)             -
f,a)  Timelv completion of: -
.   steps in the Government's       See Appendix 2                      See Annex 10
Telecommunications Policy Letter
r   PERC's Operational Plan         Attachment 1 of the Technical Annex of  See Annex 17 for program
the Project shows PERC's operational   implemented by 2000
Plan for 1996-98.
(b)  Timelv achievement of implementation pl ns:
*   SLTA                            See attachment 1 of the Technical   Implementation plans were achieved,
Annex of the Project                although with delays
   PERC
(c)   Number and seriousness of                                              There have been no serious
observations in project audit reports                                   observations
-. THE TELECO,INIL3IC.ATIONs REcULATION Col upO.NE.NT (SLTA)
Inputs:          (a) Radio frequency management system
(b) Technical assistance and staff training
Outcome:
(a)   Radio frequency monitoring:
.   HF band                         All over Sri Lanka                f The FMMS allow monitoring of this
band, which compared with VHF and
UHF is much less used. TRC
coordinates with other countries the
selection of new operating frequencies.
.   VHF and UHF bands               Wherever these bands are intensively    These bands are intensively used in the
used                                country and the new FMMS allows their
full management and monitoring.
(b)  Adequate procedures                 Licensing, billing of license fees,  TRC has introduced procedures on
interconnection, pricing, dispute  these matters, but they must be revised
settlement, consumer protection,   in the short term. The proposed new
monitonng of operators (including   Telecommunications Act wiil strengthen
quality of service).               the controls that TRC may introduce,
especially on consumer protection and
quality monitoring. Presently, license
fees are collected on time. Service
tanffs are approved by TRC taking into
consideration anti-competitive practices
and cross-subsidization. To protect the
interest of consumers. in addition to the
provisions in the Act and conditions in
the licenses, TRC has launched
consumer awareness programs.
- 14 -



ExDected Impact 
(a)   Availability of frequencies for new  Services as are widely offered in more   Intemationally agreed frequency bands
services                             advanced countries.                   are reserved and an efficient
management of the spectrum will
promote the introduction of any of the
services offered in more advanced
countries.
(b)  Increased competition in the provision    Measured in number of service     Sri Lanka has licensed one wireline and
of services                          providers, service prices. number of  two wireless operators. Wireless
new services, etc., as compared with  operators were licensed in 1997 and
advanced countries.                  both now have a subscriber base of
over 110,000. SLTL also has provided
over 400,000 lines during the last 4
years. Four mobile operators have
expanded their subscriber base to
about 395,144 subscribers. PresenUy,
Sri Lanka has more than 15 intemet
providers, compared with four in 1996.
Expiration in August 2002 of SLTL
monopoly on international telephone
services and the improved regulatory
environment are expected to open the
door to new operators, both for
domestic and long-distance services.
(c)   New operating licenses               Licenses granted for (a) and (b) above.   A list of licensed operators is shown in
Annex 11.
(d)   SLTA revenues from license fees      Increased revenues as compared to     Revenues increased to about USS8.5
1996.                                million in 2000.
(e)   Quality of service                   Improved quality, reaching intemational  There was some improvement in the
standards by the year 2000.          number of faults cleared per 100 lines
per month and the call-completion rate
of domestic long distance traffic (see
Annex 14). TRC must establish
systematic controls for the quality of
service offered by all operators (not
only SLTL), as well as adequate
reoortinc svstems.
(f)   Satisfaction of demand               Eliminabon of waiting lists and       As indicated in Annex 13, the waiting
satisfaction of demand at recovery   list for fixed telephone service in 2005
pnces, including rural and less      will still be a large percentage (about 16
profitable areas, by the year 2000.  percent) of the projected number of
subscnbers. It is not likely that cellular
service can entirely satisfy this
demand. Rural areas are still
_ _________________________________ .________________________________        underserved .
Ill. TliE PnLNIC ENTERPRISE REFOR. COMIPONENT (PERC)
Inputs:          (a) Foreign and local consultants
(b) Fixed retainer fees for financial advisory services for specific transactions
(c) Training of PERC staff
Outcome.
State-owned enterprises privatized by    Lanka Electric, Air Lanka, Sri Lanka,  See Annex 17
the year 2000                         Plantations, Manufacturing Units,
Insurance Companies, Banks, and
others.
Expected Impact.,
(a)   Fiscal benefits        _             Substantial benefits                  See Annex 17
.(b)   Efficiency of the privatized enterprises    Increased efficiency          See Annex 17
(c)   Service quality and consumer         Improved quality and increased        See Annex 17
orientation of the privatized enterprises   consumer orientation
- 15 -



Output Indicators
THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION COMPOENT (SLTA)
(a)  Number of service providers        See attachment 1 of the Technical  38
Annex of the Project               _
(bL  Number of new services                           - do -               Mobile, WLL. payphone cards, ISPs
{c) New operating licenses                             -do'                See Annex 11
(dL  Senrice pnices                                    -do-                See Annex 15
(e) Quality of service                                 -do-                See Annex 14.
(fl   Revenues from license fees       t               -do-                USS8.5 million in 2000
(g)  Waiting list                                     -do-                 It is estimated to remain stable during
THE _____3_C_EwrE_PP_SE_RE_oR_A_COMPONENT (P IERC)                    the next five years. See Annex 13
THE lPusUC ENTERPRISE REFORMU COMPONENT (F ERC)
| Number of privatized corpanies
-16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components
(USS '000 Equivalent - Contingencies included)
.   Estimate at Appraisal  .                     Actual .of
Components                                 F                                                         Ap6ralsil
L  |i::F    |    T      t    L     {    F             T 
A. SLTA
I   REGUL- TIO.v
Consulting Services                   100.0       700.0       800.0                   648.5        648.5        81.0
Staff Training                         50.0       200.0       250.0                   655.9        655.9       262.4
2   F.%l.VMS                             _.
Hardware and Software                3.354.9    8.597.4    11,952.3
Land. Works. Power Supply           3.250.4        57.6     3.308.0       4,079.2   4,357.1       8,436.3       54.5
Training                               50.0       250.0       300.0               1         1 _
Subtotal TRC    6.805.2    9.805.0    16,612.2        4,079.2   5.661.5       9,740.7       58.6
B. PERC
I   Consulting- Scrvices and Marketing    2.145.0   2,740.0      4,885.0  __            3,446.1       3.446.1       70.5
2   Staff Training                          10.0       40.0         50.0                  275.9         275.9      551.8
3   Office Equipment                         5.3       63.0        68.3         462.1     152.1         614.2      899.3
4   Establishment Administration                                               1,924.5                 1,924.5
5   Enterprise Restructurinng                                                11.047.7                11.047.7
Subtotal PERC    2,160.3    2.843.0       5.003.3     13,434.3   3,874.1      17.308.4      345.9
Total Project Cost   8,965.5   12.648.0    2 1.613.5     17.513.5   9,535.6     27,049.1      i25.1
L: Locali: F: Forcign: T: Total.
Thc cost data is not compleit.
Custom duties are csntimated at 39.5 percent on imported goods or about L SS 3.3 million equivalent. This is reflected in the TRC - FMlMtS component.
Enterprise Restructuring and Establishment Administration were locai costs bome by PERC which were not originally a line item in the PERC component
during Appraisal.
-17 -



Annex 2b
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million Equivalent - Contingencies are included)
PrtojectCoipoen%  .lt                     _             ,
Equipment
FMMS and Office Equipment        8.6      0.07      8.7       5.08 |              5.08
(8.6)    (0.07)    (8.7)     (5.08) _            (5.08)
Land, Works, Power Supp(v                  0.0       3.3      3.3            T
(0.0)    (0.06)    (0.1)           l
TA (Institutional Development)         _
Training                         0.0      0.6       0.6                  .66      .66
(0.0)    (0.6)     (0.6)                (.66)     (.66)
Consulancy                       0.0      5.7       5.7       3.29                3.29
(0.0)    (5.7)     (5.7)     (3.29)              (3.29)
Total Procurement                          8.6      9.7      18.3       9.09       .66      9.75
of which IDA Financed                     (8.6)     (6.4)    (15.0) .(9.09)       (.66)    (9.75)
Annex 2c
Financing Plan
(USS Million Equivalent)
Estimate At Appraisal                             Actual
Local       Foreign   T    Total           Local        Foreign         Total
IDA                       2.4           12.6 r150                     1.1           9.6           10.7
GOSUPERCITRC    r         6.6     |      0.0           6.6           16.3           0.0           16.3
Total                     9.0           12.6     r    21.6           17.4           9.6           27.0
Actuals have been rounded off.
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Economic costs and benefits were not estimated)
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/95                      1   PSD
I   LEG
1   FNA
I   EGR
I   INF
Supervision
09/96                       I   EGR                                 S              S
I   FNA
I   ECON
03/97                       1   EGR                                 S              HS
I  FAN
I   ECON
08/97                       1   FNA                                 S              HS
I   EGR
I   ECON
04/98 (Mid-Term             2   EGR                                 S             HS
Review)                     I   FNA
1   ECON
02/99                       1   FNA                                 S             HS
I   POF
I   ECON
i 1H99                      I   ECON                               S              HS
I   EGR
I FNA
I   POF
ICR
02/01                      1    ECON                                S              S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
___________________________        No. Staff weeks              USS  ('000)
AppraisalUNegotiation                   13.60                      57.50
Supervision                            88.97                      319.96
ICR                                     . 0                            0
Total                                  102.57                     377.46
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SUsSubstantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
03 Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
03 Physical                              0f  * SUOM  OVN  O NA
Z Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
l Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               0 H  O SU OM  0 N  0 NA
O) Gender                          OH  OSUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please speci)            0 H  OSUOM  O N  O IA
0 Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NVA
U Public sector management                0 H  O SU OM  0 N  0 NA
a Other (Please speciJf)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 21-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
9 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
1 Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
3 Overall                                             OHS OS  O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
f Preparation                                         OHS IDS  O  U  O HU
2 Government implementation performance               O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O  u  O HU
3 Overall                                             OHS OS  OU  O HU
-22-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8:     Partners' Comments (TRC and PERC)
Appendix 1:   Frequency Management and Monitoring System
Appendix 2:   Telecommunications Sector Policy Implementation
Appendix 3:   Telecommunications Operators
Appendix 4:   Telecommunications Services Development
Appendix 5:   Basic Telephone Service Supply and Demand
Appendix 6:   Quality of Service Indicators Telephone Service (SLTL)
Appendix 7:   Telephone Service Main Tariffs (Rates in SLR, including taxes)
Appendix 8:   TRC: Use of Consultants
Appendix 9:   TRC Staff Training
Appendix 10:  PERC: Consulting and Marketing Services
Appendix 11:  Schedule of Disbursements
- 23 -



Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION COMMISSION (TRC)
Introduction
The Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reforn Technical Assistance Project was
fuianced by IDA
The IDA credit was approved in March 1996 and made effective on I Ith June 1996.
Project Objectives
The objectives of IDA Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprises Reform Technical
Assistance Project were:
(a)    To support the divestiture of state owned companies and reform of the teleconmnunication sector
focusing on promoting private investments, operation and competition. The telecommunications
component supported the strengthening of sector regulation and provided for the efficient allocation
and use of the radio frequency spectrum; and
(b)    To facilitate the privatization of state owned enterprises by providing expert advice and
strengthening the technical and administration capacity of Public Enterprise Reform Commission.
Design, Implementation And Operation Experience
(a)  Frequencv NManagement and Monitoring System (TRC component):
(i)   Worldwide tenders were called to select suppliers for the procurement and installation of
equipment in respect of the Frequency Management and Mlonitoring System. The contract was
awarded to M, S Rohde & Schwarz & Co of Germany and an agreement was signed on 30th
March 1999.
(ii)  The procurement and installation of equipment has been completed except for one monitoring
station due to unavoidable circumstances. The completion certificate and the Provisional
Acceptance Certificate have been issued in terms of the contract.
(b)  (i)   A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed on 29th September 1997 between the
Department of Industry, Canada, Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka
and the Commonwealth of Learning, Canada, for Co-operation in Telecommunications
Regulatory Activities.
(ii)  Through the Memorandum of Understanding, TRC's institutional strength was much improved
particularly in the following areas:
(a) Interconnection arrangements amongst fixed access operators and between fixed access
operators and cellular operators
(b) Quality of service and public hearing procedures
-24 -



(c) Consumer relations
(d) Competition policy
(e) Rural Telecommunications policy
(f) Broadcast licensing legislation
(g) Use of telecommunications in emergency and disaster management
(h) Cost studies to deal with cross subsidization,
(i) Procedures manual for public hearings
(c)  Development of a New National Telecommunications Policy for Sri Lanka and a Corporate Plan for
the Telecommunications Regulatory Commnission. The contract for this assignrment was awarded for
Mls David Townsend and Associates of USA for a sum of US$ 262.980, and the contract was
satisfactorily completed by end of year 2000.
TRC's Performance During Evolution And Implementation Of Project
I.   With assistance of the Bank, TRC planned and prepared the FMMS project in accordance with the
objectives and implemented the project.
2.   Even though there was a start up delay of about two years for the procurement of equipment, due to
the best efforts of the TRC and the Bank, physical objectives were achieved towards the end of year
2000.
3.   TRC's performance during the evolution and implementation of the project and its evaluation and
comments are as follows:
(a)  Frequency Management And .lonitoring System
Introduction
The Radio frequency spectrum is a scarce natural resource which has to be managed carefully in order to
achieve efficient interference free telecommunications and broadcasting services throughout the country.
Standard technical parameters and frequency bands have been specified by the radio communication
bureau of ITU for various services.
The present Frequency Management and Monitoring System commissioned under the World Bank funds
will be utilized as the main instrument in improving the radio spectrum in Sri Lanka according to
intemational standards and adhering to international and national commitments with regard to the optimum
usage of the radio frequency spectrum.
The Frequency Management and Monitoring System consist of following major components:
(i)  One Radio Frequency Management Centre located at TRC Head Office
(ii)  One Central Control Centre for Radio Monitoring System located at TRC Head Office
(i)  Three Regional Monitoring Centres
(ii)  One HF Monitoring Centre
(iii) Six (06) Remote Monitoring Stations
(iv)  Four (04) Mobile Surveillance Stations (MSV)
(v)  Complete package of software tools and database for frequency    management and monitoring.
- 25 -



(b) Radio Frequency Management System
With the introduction of the Radio Frequency Management System, it is possible to maintain a national
frequency allocation plan according to the international standards. This system is capable of generating
automated frequency channel plans according to ITU recommendations with user defmned parameters. The
Engineers in the Spectrum Division have already started preparing National Frequency Plans for different
services using the software tools available in the Frequency Management System.
There are several Electro-Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) tools incorporated in this system which will
assist, during the frequency assignment process, the selection of candidate frequencies for different
services. By using these EMC tools it is possible to implement the propagation models defined by ITU,
which takes care of the effects of terrain. rain attenuation and several other parameters. Other important
features such as broadcast coverage zone predictions, frequency coordination between satellite earth
stations and terrestrial networks, frequency sharing, co-channel and adjacent channel interference analysis
and third order inter modulation products analysis can be performed using these EMC tools.
The FMMS is capable of generating invoices and the invoice values are automatically calculated based on
the fee schedule incorporated in the system. This system support licensing process for all the radio
frequency services offered by TRC. The officers in the Spectrum Management Division have already
started issuing invoices and technical attachments related to license documents using the automated
frequency management system.
(c)  Frequency Monitoring System
It is the responsibility of TRC to verify the compliance of technical parameters by the users. The main
purpose of the Frequency Monitoring System is to inspect/monitor radio installations in regard to
compliance with the conditions and requirements attached to the frequency assignments. The frequency
monitoring system is equipped to carryout inspections of the radio installations, which focuses particularly
an the radiated power, frequency, frequency deviation and the number of equipment in operation.
The present Frequency hMonitoring system facilitates the following key tasks by which it is possible to
check whether a particular radio emission complies with the conditions stipulated by TRC.
(i)    To monitor emissions in regard to compliance with the frequency assignment.
(ii)    To identify the locations of radio emissions.
(iii)   To locate illegal transmissions.
(iv)   To perform frequency occupancy measurements.
(v)    To carryout frequency band observations.
(vi)   To locate and mitigate radio frequency interference.
(vii)   To take illegal transmitters out of service.
(viii)  Measurement of field strengths.
(ix)   Calculation of coverage zones for broadcasters.
(x)    Measurement of over modulation.
(d) Technical Assistance - Consultancy Ana Staff Training
IDA Credit 2837 was granted in 1996 during a crucial stage in the process of Telecommunications sector
reformn and liberalization. Having previously successfully spearheaded reforms at the margins in about
- 26 -



1996 the government embarked on reforms at the core i.e. fixed telephony. This was not only the final step
but the most crucial step as well in liberalizing domestic telephony services. Undoubtedly resources that
were available from the IDA Credit helped towards the success of this phase of reforrns.
The forerunner to this phase was the National Telecommunications Policy of the new government that took
office in 1994. One of the salient features of this policy was the recognition of the need for private sector
led competition-based growth of the sector. Another notable feature was the introduction of transparency in
divestment and licensing process through the introduction of competitive tenders. This helped identify the
most suitable partners and operators.
Despite the initial set back of the late 1980's the reform efforts at the core succeeded in mid 1990's largely
aided by pragmatic political, bureaucratic and regulatory efforts. The three main milestones of this process
was the privatization of SLTL, licensing of two WLL operators and the strengthening of the Regulator by
the Statutory conversion of it into a Commission. The results largely indicate the success of these bold
initiatives.
During the last four years, the fixed access telephony grew rapidly with an average growth of 32 percent
per year. The Cellular sector perhaps grew even faster with an annual average growth rate of 57 percent.
The variety of services also expanded. The most importance benefit was the ready availability of a choice
of telephone services in most urban centers. The competition also resulted in decreasing tariff for the
consumers except for fixed access sector where the government was committed to the five-year tariff
re-balancing process. In view of the rapid expansion of the network, quality of service did take a plunge,
but conscious efforts by the Commission helped incentives the operators to arrest this trend early.
Despite the focus on urban telephonv by the operators the govemment has taken several initiatives to
incentives the expansion of telephony into the rural areas. This includes the introduction of competition for
the provision of telephony to hitherto unconnected sub post offices in rural areas. Another effort is
subsidization of pay installations in rural areas, which is currently in progress.
The rapid expansion of the Telecommunications sector necessitated that the regulatory mechanism be
strengthened and developed. In this regard, the Commission structure was restructured to incorporate a
multi disciplinary structure (i.e. the Technical, Economic and Legal divisions). As there were no human
resources with regulatory skills available intemally, the Commission had to make do with highly skilled
human resources who did not have any previous regulatory expertise.
It necessitated intense regulatory training. This was aided by the IDA resources. The Commission coupled
this with the grappling of issues it faced in the regulatory environment. The Consultants who were sourced,
handled such issues in the form of projects. A training component was built into such projects.
The Memorandum of Understanding between Industry Canada and the Commission helped the Commission
to source experts in different areas of specialization quickly, ranging from: (i) altemative dispute
resolution; (ii) interconnection, rural telecommunications; and (iii) quality of service, consumer issues
handling to Y2K issues. Such sourcing of consultants helped the Commission not only train its staff but
grapple with multiple issues it faced. This helped the Commission becoming the most active and effective
regulator amongst the South Asian countries.
Utilizing the Statutory policy advice mandate with the aid of IDA resources the Commission sourced
intemational consultants to work with its staff to develop a new draft National Telecommunications Policy
and Corporate Plan for the Commission. This process has now been completed and it is now left for the
- 27 -



government for the adoption of the former as national policy on Telecomnnunications. Having successfully
steered the sector it is important that we realign ourselves in the face of fast involving technology and
convergence of media for further consolidation and building upon the past success. This is the objective in
developing a new National Telecommunications Policy.
The Corporate Plan is seen as the main instrument that would guide the implementation of the new National
Telecommunications Policy. Hence it primarily deals with the regulatory structure. Another component that
follows behind is the need to amend the Statute to fall in line with these two instruments. This is currently
in progress under the Chairmanship of the former Commissioner of this Commission.
The focus from hereon should not only be limited to leverage the evolution of technology for the benefit of
Sri Lanka but also should focus on areas that were not relatively well addressed during the past few years.
This includes the need to expedite the network rollout to the rural areas, particularly as about 70 percent of
the telephone subscribers in the country are in Western Province. Another important area of focus is the
need to strengthen the regulatory structure to help cope with the fast changing scenario. In this regard, it is
pertinent to study the Indian as well as the Singaporean models where there is a shifting focus from
telecommunications to convergence regulation. This is particularly important, as it may be futile to ignore
global changes in a fast evolving networked industry like telecormmunications.
AWhilst we have immensely benefited from IDA resources in reforming and liberalizing Telecommunications
sector there is further important work to be done in this regard as highlighted above and resources should
be available for such work. Hence, it is important that we seek further assistance from international donor
agencies. Given our track record we are hopeful that we will get a good hearing for such future assistance.
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM COMIMISSION (PERC)
The World Bank provided Technical Assistance for the Govemment of Sri Lanka through the
Telecommunications Regulation and Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Project for the period
1996-2000.
The objective of the assistance of the Public Enterprise Reform was to facilitate the divestiture of
Govemment owned enterprises including Sri Lanka Telecommunications by strengthening the technical and
administrative capacity of the Public Enterprise Reform Commission of Sri Lanka (PERC). The assistance
to PERC was to:
(a)    Finance short-term consultants and financial advisors for specific transactions, advise on strategy
forrnulation, pre-reform packaging, implementation of privatization transaction, identify key issues
and privatization review, regulatory framework and recommend action to be taken to implement the
restructuring and privatization program;
(b)    Assist PERC in the preparation of memorandums, terms of reference and bidding documents, as
well as in the transaction and all tasks leading to the transaction to be completed; and
(c)    Strengthen PERC Secretariat to enable core staff to be hired on a long-term basis to plan and
coordinate the privatization progranl, including the provision of training and study tours for
professional and policy makers.
During the above period of assistance, PERC carried out privatization transactions including the 35 percent
stake in Sri Lanka Telecommunications, sale of major stakes in 20 out of 23 regional plantation companies,
- 28 -



an intemnational placement of shares of National Development Bank, sale of 40 percent of Airlanka Ltd.,
and a number of small manufacturing and agricultural enterprises.
This program has therefore resulted in significant benefit to Sri Lanka in terms of improving the growth
potential of several strategic sectors, attracting intemationally reputed investors, updating technology,
improving markets, reducing Govemment debt, strengthening the balance of payments and contributing to
the process of fiscal consolidation.
During the course of project implementation, PERC employed international consultants for the
privatization of Sri Lanka Telecommunications and Airlanka. Approximately 52 percent of the total funds
from the project amounting to US$ 2,021,832.00 was utilized and pay the consultants for the privatization
of Sri Lanka Telecommunications Ltd.
The following intemational specialists and consulting firms were recruited to advise the Government of Sri
Lanka on the following major transactions:
Consulting Firm/Specialist                            Applicable Transaction
Deutsche Morgan Grenfel and Coopers & Lybrand         Sri Lanka Telecommunications
Simat Helliesen & Eichner (SH & E) and Sidley Austin  Airlanka
We did not find any undue delay or difficulties in the World Bank disbursement process, which enabled us
to complete the work as scheduled.
-29 -



Additional Annex 9. Frequency Management and Monitoring System
A contract for the FMMS was signed between TRC and Rohde & Schwarz, Germany, on March 30, 1999
with a price of DM 7,966,203 + SLR 65,371,084.
The Frequency Management System consists of one server based on the Unix Operating System, which is
used to maintain an Oracle database of the radio spectrum users, runs the frequency management software
and other technical tools shared by 14 client computers, and is capable of carrying out frequency
assignments in different services such as Fixed, Broadcasting and Land Mobile. The Frequency Monitoring
System consists of the stations listed in the following table, linked by a remote access system of telephone
lines leased from the public teleconrmunications network.
Acceptance tests were performed in December 2000, except for one station for which an altemate site is
being sought. Some of the equipment for this site was used to replace the equipment damaged due to
lightning at Yakkala and the faulty items were sent to the manufacturer for repairs. The database will be
populated initially with information of about licenses and frequency assignments.
Frequency Monitoring Stations
Function/Site        Type of Installation
Radio Monitoring Centers
1. Colombo             I VHFIUHF, DF
2. Kadirana            I HF, DF
3. Kandy               I VHF/UHF, OF
Remote Monitoring Stations
1. Bandaragama          VHF/UHF, DF
2. Bataramulla          VHF/UHF, DF
3. Katubedda             VHF/UHF, DF
4. Nawam Mawatha         VHF/UHF, DF
5. Sapugaskanda         VHF/UHF, DF
6. Yakkala              VHF/UHF, DF
Surveillance Vehicles (4)   I VHF/UHF, DF
- 30 -



Additional Annex 10. Telecommunications Sector Policy Implementation
(Policy Letter, MOPT, 2/8/96)
Policy        -.              ,                     11`1CurrentSituation .
1.  Amend the Telecommunications Act, 1991.      The amended Act was passed by the Parliament on September 4,
1996.
2.   Convert SLTA into a regulatory Commission with  As provided in the amended Telecommunications Act, SLTA was
operational and administrative autonomy     converted in February 1997 into a statutory corporation known as
(including salary structure).               the Telecommunicabions Regulatory Commission (TRC). The
Secretary of the Minister is the ex-officio Chairman of the
Commission. The Director General of Telecommunications is the
CEO. The other three members are also appointed by the Minister
from persons in the fields of law, finance and management. The
staff and their salaries are determined by the Commission. The
recruitment of qualified senior staff has created a regulatory culture
and consolidatina initial efforts.
3.  Finance the Commission's activities through  TRC operations and salaries are financed from revenue eamed in
licenses and other operator fees rather than  the form of license fees. Capital expenditures, once approved by
through Govemment budget and provide it with    Govemment, are also be met from this revenue.
appropriate financial autonomy.
4.   Promote competiton in the telecommunications   Competition has been introduced in all sectors, except in
sector by:                                  intematonal telephone services (SLTL's has a monopoly on these
*   adopting transparent procedures for     services until August 2002). TRC has developed interconnection
licensing of operators;                rules and taken steps to enhance the quality of services and move
*   facilitating interconnection:           toward cost-based tariffs.
.   promoting economically sound cost-based
pricing prnciples; and
.   providing adequate regulatory certainty to
investors.                             _
5.  Allow competition in the provision of        Competition has been introduced in several services as planned.
telecommunications services (other than the
basic wired voice telephony) with the operators
using technology of their choice (provided that
equipment is type-approved and an appropriate
license has been obtained).
6.  In particular, issue two licenses for radio-based    Two licenses were granted in February 1996.
basic services by March 1996.
7.   Transform SLT into a commercially operated and  On September 25. 1996. SLT was incorporated as a public
fully autonomous corporation and restructure  company limited by shares (SLTL). In August 1997. the
SLT's administration and operation within the  Govemment sold 35 percent of the shares to NTT, Japan. The
next two years.                             agreement with NTT includes managing SLTL, subject to a set of
Derformance targets and incentives.
8.   Ensure that SLT's its interconnection charges to   The commercial terms of interconnection amongst fixed access
other service providers are based on financial  operators and between fixed/mobile operators were approved by
costs.                                      TRC.
9.   Rebalance SLT's tariffs on the basis of a tariff  A rebalancing process has been set through tariff revisions in 1997
study combined with realistic demand forecasts.   and 1998. As a result of the changes in ownership and
Afterwards. enforce tariffs regulated by a price-    management of SLTL, the price-cap provisions were suspended
cap system.                                 until August 5, 2005. It is unlikely that price-cap regulation will be
fully enforced with other operators.
- 31 -



Annex 10 continued
1.  Amendmetnt of the  b99   l T alecommunicatfons Act
__ (a) Cabinet decision to amend Act                    February 1996
2.(b) Preparation bo Legial Draftsman of amended bill  - April 1996  _
(c) Copy of legislation to Aefomey General and othera  May 1996       F
__       baMinistries for comrnent
_ (d) Translalion of the bill into Sinhaia and Taniil  May 1996.
(e) Cabinet approval of the bill and presentafion to  June 1996
Pariiament
2. Promotion of Competitlon and Private Investment:
(a) Granting of the first license for provision of radio-  March 1996  February 1996
based basic telecommunications services
_ (b) Granting of the second license for provision of  March 1996       February 1996
radio-based basic telecommunications services
_   (c) Completion of tariff/demand study            Third Quarter, 1996     1997/1998
(d) Design and implementation of a tariff rebalancing  Early 1997       Ongoing
I-IP     plan
-32 -



Additional Annex 11. Telecommunications Operators
Licenhs                                      License                        -, 
Dat                  Oeetrs                   PiI                 Aufthrb*.d 11i"e~
I.   07104/91    Lanka Communicabons Services         20      Data, store and forward fax, e-mail, videotext,
(Pvt) Ltd.             _                     enhanced voice.
2.    08/08/91   Sn Lanka Telecommunications Ltd.     20      Telephone, telegraph, telex, data, martime
(SLTL).                                      mobile, fax, intemational TV, intematonal photo
telegram, voice cast transmission, IDS, Inmarsat.
3.   111/05/91   Electrotek (Pvt) Ltd.                20      Data, directory informabon. fax, e-mail, videotext.
enhanced voice, electronic data exchange,
database facilities, telex.
4.    02/11/92   Lanka Cellular Services (Pvt) Ltd.   20      Cellular mobile telephone.
5.    08/06192   Societe Intemabonale de              20      Data, telex, e-mail, data processing related to the
T6elcommunications Aeronautiques             air transport industry.
(SITA)
6.    09/07/92   Infocom Lanka Ltd.                    10     Radio paging
7.    12118/92    Bell Communications Lanka (Pvt)     10      Radio paging
Ltd.
8.    02/11/93   OTC Australia IPvt) Ltd. (MOBITEL)    7      Cellular mobile telephone
9.    02/11/93    Fentons Ltd.                         10     Radio paging
10.   02/25/93    Dynacom (TrunkNet) Engineenng        5      Trunked mobile radio
(Pvt) Ltd.
11.   04/01/93   Intercity Paging (Pvt) Ltd.           10      Radio paging
12.   09110/93    Equipment Traders Ltd.               10      Radio paging
13.   09/28/93   MTN Networks (Pvt) Ltd. (DIALOG)      20     Cellular mobile telephone
14.   12106/94   Sn LankanAirlines Ltd. (AIR LANKA)    5      Voice and data limited to Air Lanka requirements.
15.   12/06194   Lanka Intemet Service Ltd.            20      Store & forward e-mail, intemet, fax, e-mail to fax
and fax to e-mail, fax to ASCII character
recognition/transmission. intemet-based
databases, telex. X.25 data, video conferencing,
enhanced voice.
16.   12/09/94    The Pay Phone Company (Pvt) Ltd.     10      Payphones
17.   05108195   MTT Networks (Pvt) Ltd.               20      Leased circuits to other licensed operators,
__________ sound and TV broadcasting systems.
18.   09/07/95   Celltel Lanka Ltd.                    13     Cellular mobile telephone, voice mail. fax, leasing
of excess radio capacity, wireless loops for
___________  _________________________________   __________  licensed   payphone  operators.
19.   09/19/95   Ceycom Global Communication Ltd.      20      Data
20.   02/22/96   Telia Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (SUNTEL)       20      Fixed basic telephony, data, payphone, voice
_________   __ ___________ ___________ __   ________ m ail,   fax.
21.   02/26/96   Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd.                 20      Fixed basic telephony, data. payphone, voice
__________   __________ ____________________m ail,   fax.
22.   06/06/96   Itmin Ltd.                            20      Data
23.   08/16/96    Eureka Online (Pvt) Ltd.             10      Intemet-based services
24.   04/28197    Panka Lanka Networking (Pvt) Ltd.    10      Internet-based services
25.   08/11/97    Millennium Communications (Pvt)      10      Multimedia, telemarketing, audiotext, intemet,
Ltd.                                         data. value-added services.
26.   03/20/98    TSG Lanka Ltd.                       10      Payphone
27.   04/28/98   Project Consultants Internabonal      10      Internet-based services
28.   12/04/98    MTT Networks (Pvt) Ltd.              10      Switched and non-switched data.
29.   01/27/99    OPMC Electronics (Pvt) Ltd.          10      Internet-based services
30.   03/23/99   Celltel Lanka Ltd.                    10      Internet-based services
31.   04/08199   Victra-Soft (Pvt) Ltd.                10      Intemet-based services
32.   04/08/99    Dynaweb Services (Pvt) Ltd.          10      Internet-based services
33.   07/08/99   East West Information Systems Ltd.    10      Internet-based services
34.   09/10199   Visual Intemet fPvt) Ltd.             10      Intemet-based services
35.   09110/99   Lanka Global Online (Pvt) Ltd.        10      Intemet-based services
36.   09/22199   Dynanet Ltd.  -                       10      tntemet-based services
37.   12/30199   MTT Networks (Pvt) Ltd.               10      Intemet-based serviceS
38.   01/24/00   Metropolitan Telecommunications       10      Switched and non-switched data
Services (Pvt) Ltd.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 12. Telecommunications Services Development
Dec. 1996       Dec. 2000
WIRELINE TELEPHONE SERVICE
1  Installed Switching Capacity (Lines)            340.600          828,892
2  Main Lines                            (a)       254.500          649,991
3  Subscribers                                     251,498          644,941
4  Public Telephones                                3,002            7,397
5  Waiting List                          (b)       274.030          235,897
6  Main Lines per 100 population                     1.4              3.9
WIRELESS LOCAL LOOP SERVICE
7  Subscribers                                       527            111,011
CELLULAR TELEPHONES
8  Subscribers                                       727            395,144
9  Subscribers per 100 population                    0.4              2.0
OTHER SERVICES
10  Intemet (Subscribers)                            2.509           31.725
11  Radio Paging (Subscribers)                       10,721           7,600
12  Domestic Lease Circuits                          N.A.             1,365
13  International Lease Circuits                     N.A.              74
14  Trunked Mobile Radio (Subscribers)                476              524
(a) As defined by the ITU, number of lines connecting subscribers' terminal equipment to the public
switched network, each having a dedicated port in the exchange equipment. It includes public
telephones.
(bi Number of applications for a connection to main line that have been held up by a lack of capacity in
the exchanges.
- 34 -



Additional Annex 13. Basic Telephone Service Supply and Demand
~ year 'C  I  Exchange     Main         an | iues/100
Year  LCapaciy(a) c     Lines (b)     Popit" .I Waiting Lstc
1990       158.518        121,388            0.7         48,872
1991       159,667        125,384            0.7         66,574
1992       179,995        135,504            0.8         96,207
1993       207,227        157,774            0.9        124,066
1994       237,586        180,724            1.0        185,569
1995       271,250        205,963            1.1        227,198
1996       340,600        255.049            1.4        274,030
1997       436,500        341,622            1.9        284,876
1998       543,897        523,529            2.8        224,411
1999       769,768        671,916            3.5        236,225
2000      1,028,892       767,411            4.0        248,486
2001      1,028,892       874,109            4.5        260,747
2002      1,028,892       974,109            4.9        250,747
2003      1,500,000     1,064,000            5.3        230,747
2004      1,500,000     1,164,000            5.7        215,747
2005      1,500,000     1,269,000            6.2        205,747
(a) Number of installed exchange lines.
(b) Number of lines connecting subscribers' terminal equipment to the public
switched network, each having a dedicated port in the exchange equipment. It
includes WLL lines and public telephones.
(c) Number of applications for connection to service that have been held up by a
lack of capacity in the exchanges or the outside plant.
2000-2005: SLTL, Suntel and Lankabell projections.
1,400,000
1,200,000      .
1,000,000 -.-------
800,000  -    ~
600.000 ...........
400,000         .             .   .            .      . .    ..
200.000   *--- -                      *      -                            .
1990    1992    1994    1996    1998    2000    2002    2004
Year
-a  Lines -&-Waiting List
- 35 -



Additional Annex 14. Quality of Service Indicators
1996                   2000
Indicators
Colombo       Other    Colombo        Other
Metro      Regions      Metro      Regions
1  Complaints/100 lines per month      (a)       N.A        NA.         13.98       N.A.
2   Faults/100 lines per month         (b)      10.89       25.05       12.60       12.83
3   Faults Cleared/100 lines per month    (b)    9.39       24.88        12.6       12.83
4  Call Completion Rate (%):           (c)
5   Domestic LD calls                           26.43       33.83       41.67       42.51
6   Intemational outgoing calls                  n.a.        n.a.       44.7         (d)
(a) 1996 - July to December avcrage; 2000 - January to September average
(b) 1996 - July to December average; 2000 - January to September average
(c) 1996 - July to December average; 2000- January to September average
(d) For the whole country
-36 -



Additional Annex 15. Telephone Service Main Tariffs (rates in SLR, including taxes)
December 1996        December 2000
LocAL SERVICE                                      15,600           16,000- 22,000
1.    Connection Fee                           (a)
Rental Charge:                           (b)
2.    *   residential subscribers                          96                237 380
3.    *   business subscribers                             96                427 - 475
Call Charge per Unit:
4.    *   first unit                                       1.32                 1.30
5.    *   additional unit                                  1.98              1.65 - 3.30
INTERNATIONAL AUTOMATIC CALLS
Three Min. or Fraction Rate:
6.    *   Australia                                     204 - 309            150 - 215
7.    *   Germany                                       261- 399             195 - 247
8.    .   India                                            N.A.              120-162
9.    *   Japan                                            N.A.              150 - 215
10.   *   U.A.E.                                        261- 399             195 - 250
11.   *   United Kingdom                                261 - 399            195 - 250
12.   *   United States                                 261 - 399            195 - 250
Deposit for Intemational Subscriber Dialing
13.   *   Residental subscribers                          5.000            2,500 - 10,000
14.   .   Business subscribers                            5,000            2,500 - 10,000
Notes:
(a) Indicate how it depends on the distance to the telephone exchange.
(b) Specify period (per year or per month).
- 37 -



Additional Annex 16. TRC Use of Consultants
The following studies were undertaken by the TRC:
1.    Cost Study to deal with cross subsidization
2.    Study of Quality of Service and public hearing procedures
3.    Study on consumer complaints
4.     Study on service quality standards
5.    Inter connection arrangements amongst fixed access operators and between fixed access operators
and cellular operators
6.    Competition policy
7.    Rural Telecommunications Policy to encourage the expeditious roll out of telephones in rural areas
8.    Telephone billing to formulate operationally feasible solutions to billing issues
9.     Broadcast licensing legislation
10.   Use of telecommunications in emergency and disaster management
11.   Development of a New National Teleconununications Policy for Sri Lanka and a Corporate Plan
for the TRC
TRC Staff Training
Training on Regulatory issues including FMMS operations
Regulatorv Issues
I.    Interconnection arrangements
2.    Cost studies
3.    Quality of service
4.     Competition policy
5.    Interoperability issues
6.    Emergency telecommnunications and disaster management
7.    Enforcement of license conditions
8.    Rural telecommunication policy
FMINIS Operations
A study trip was under taken by SLTAITRC staff to Industry Canada to review the FMMS process and
procedures. Three batches of personnel were also trained in FMMS operations at the factory of M/S
Rhode & Schwarz & Co. in Germany.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 17. PERC Consulting and Marketing Services
(Use of Funds as of December 2000)
Enterprise        Consulting
Retorm/Privatization    Services      Marketing       . Total                   Remarks
Utility & Services
Sri Lanka                                                          35 percent shares and management
Telecommunications Ltd.  1.826,173.95  195.658.42    2,021,832.37   ransferred to
strategic investor (NTTC)
40 percent shares and management
Air Lanka Ltd.          207,852.54     21,701.04       229,553.58   transferred to
strategic investor (Emirates)
Public awareness on benefits of
Postal Reform            17,100.69     211,771.49      228,872.18   corporatization.
Awaiting enactment of Legislation
Independent Television
Network                                  8,015.74       8,015.74
Airport & Aviation Services
Ltd.                           -         2,040.18       2,040.18    To be restructured
Sr Lanka Insurance Corporation
Robinson Clubs - Bentota       .         4,311.55       4,311.55   considenng
new application.
Plantations
Regional Plantation                                                 Sale of shares. 12 companies fully
Companies                              171,803.63      171.803.63   divested.
I___________________  ____________    _____________    _____________   16  com panies  listed.
Agriculture
Seed Paddy                                                          2 seed farms leased to strategic investor
Farms/Livestock Farms    13,225.25       8,304.63      21,529.88    on a long term
basis. 2 livestock farms to be handed over
o investors
hortly.
Sevanagala Sugar Ltd.     1,123.36      17,541.56      18,664.92    Proposal been evaluated
Higurana Sugar Ltd.            -         1,952.59       1,952.59    Proposal been evaluated
Ceylon Nor/Fisheres
Corp.                              _   13.254.46       13.254.46    Proposal been evaluated
Mining
Bogala & Kahatagaha
Graphite _     _         3150240_        1,436.00      32,938.40    50 percent of Govemment shares sold.
Manufacturing
Pugoda Textiles           2,136.75       3,577.37       5,714.12    Liquidation in progress
Ceylon Agro Industries    3,285.42                      3,285.42
Lanka Asoke Leyland       1,814.35                      1,814.35
Transferred to Ceylon Heavy Industres
Lanka Loha Hardware       5,705.31            -         5,705.31    Ltd.
National Paper
Corporation                     -        7,236.53       7,236.53
Lanka Salusala                 .          995.36          995.36
90 percent purchased by employees' trust
Lanka Salt                     .        7,657.85        7,657.85   fund.
Colombo Sack Makers            .        2,617.65        2,617.65
90 percent transferred to Korea Heavy
eylon Steel Corp.          .           43,586.06       43.586.06   Industries and Construction Co.. Hanjung
^evlon Fertilizer Corp.      .          5.566.72        5,566.72
- 39 -



Annex 17 continued
Enterprise        Consulting
Reform/Privatization    Services      Marketing        Total                  Remarks
Banking
NOB                                     29,819.75      29,819.75   International placement of shares due.
SMIB                            -        9,693.36       9,693.36
BankingIlnsurance        21.975.12      10,186.69      32,161.81    Developing new insurance legislation.
Petroleum
51 percent transferred to Shell Overseas
Colombo Gas (Shell Gas)     575.82     36,428.57       37,004.39   Investment B.V.
Lanka Lubricants                        7,557.72        7,557.72    39 percent Public Offer of shares
power
LECO                      1,889.03                      1,889.03
Restructuring of Ceylon Electricity Board
ower & Energy                 -        15,986.33      15,986.33   and
.___________ establishment of regulator.
Trading
BCC Lanka Ltd.                          10,647.28      10,647.28
60 percent Transferred to strategic
Orient Lanka Ltd.                       10,027.43                  Investor, Alpha
oAirpors Group Plc.
PERC
Post Privatizalion          790.78            -           790.78
Computerization of PERC accounting
PERC Accounting System    2,668.91            -         2,668.91    system
PERC Awareness Program          -       88,955.62      88,955.62
50 Members of Parliament on 10-day
MP's Study Tours                       379,956.02      379,956.02   tours abroad
fotal              _  2,137,819.68   1,328,287.60    3,456,079.85
- 40 -



Additional Annex 18. Schedule of Disbursements (US$ million)
Appraisal         -                Actual
IBRD FY & Semester Ending    Amount In                           Amount In
._______________________    Semester    Cumulative (%)           Semester       Cumulative (%)
1996
June 30, 1996                    0.5           3.3                0.0              0.0
1997
December31, 1997                 3.1          24.0                1.1              7.3
June 30, 1997                    1.1          31.3                0.7             11.8
1998
December 31, 1997                1.0          38.0                0.6             16.1
June 30, 1998                    5.0          71.3                0.8             21.2
1999
December 31, 1998                3.0          91.3                0.3             23.3
June 30. 1999                    1.3         100.0                1.4             32.7
2000
December 31, 1999                                                 3.4             55.8
June 30, 2000                                                     0.8             61.4
2001
December 31, 2000                                                 0.1             62.1
January 31, 2001                                                  0.9 (')         73.1
Total                               15.0                             10.3 (           73.1
(*) As of January 31. 2001
-~100.0
z    90.0
80.0
E    70.0
60.0
.~50.0
40.0                                                                                   -
.2   30.0-
-0 20.0
1996(l)  1996(11)  1997(I)  1997(11)  1998(I)  1998(11)  1999(1)  1999(11)  2000(l)  2000(1i)  2001(I)
Semesters
I)O Appraisal U Actual
- 41 -



