Do_mt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
- LA. 2350-1(0
11_st No. P-3650-KO
REPORT MD RECCMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
rPTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIN AliD DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
XCUTTVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
iN AN AMOUNT EQIVALENT TO US$78.5 MION
TO TlE
REPIJBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (NAGDONG BARRAGE)
September 28, 1983
M& dsiuimta bina nmbkdsd dbbIs.aui =a b yb mfkf =1Y Is   Pugm   Of
dm&stciddum It_  IF -- ma me tpEf kmb  bodwdeWrUBkadd



CURRENCY EQUIVAENIS
(As of September 1, 1983)
Currency unit -'Won (U)
Won 1.00      - US$0.00128
US$1.00       - W 780
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                            3.28 feet
pyong                                3.3 square meters (sq m)
kilometer (km)                    -  0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)             0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)                          10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres
cubic meter (cu a)                   264 US gallons
cubic meters per second (cu m/s)  -  22.82 million US gallons per day
cubic meters per day (CHD)        =  264 US gallons per day -
Gigawatt hour (GWMh)              -1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
liter (1)                         - 0.26 US gallons
liters per capita per day (lpcd)     0.26 US gallons per capita per day
milligrams per liter (ng/l)          parts per million (ppm)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB     =  Asian Development Bank
VU      =  Environmental Management Unit
EPB     =  Economic Planning Board
ERP     =  Expert Review Panel
ERR     =  Economic Rate of Return
IMC     =  Interminiisterial Committee
ISWACO  =  Industrial Sites and WGater Resources Development Corporation
KDB     =  Korea Development ank
KEPCO   =  Korea Electric Power Company
MOC     = Ministry of Construction
MORA    = Ministry of Rome Affairs
MORSA   - Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
OECF    =  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OOE     =  Office of the Environment
UNDP    = United Nations Development Programme
WB      = Water Bureau



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND RATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(NAGDONG BARRAGE)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Benef'ciaries:     Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development
Corporation (ISWACO) and the Project Cities through the
Ministry of Home Affairs.
Amount             $78.5 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 12 years with 4-1/2 years of grace, at
the standard variable rate./l
Relending Terms:   Same as the Bank loan, plus a service charge of 0.05%
per annum.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would make available about 25 cu mls
of water presently released from upstream dams to prevent
intrusion of sea water into the Nagdong River. As a
result it would provide additional water to 13 cities
and 24 towns, improve service to about 7.8 million
persons presently using water from the river, and allow
the provision of water to about 4 million more persons
by 1992.
The project includes the construction of a 510 m long
barrage, dikes and a closure dam at the river mouth,
adjacent to Busan City. The project also includes two
national programs to be implemented in about 15 cities:
one for leak detection and control and the other for
strengthening accounting and financial management
capabilities of the city Water Bureaus (WBs) using
microcomputer software and hardware. These two programs
would provide an important transfer of technology, to be
replicated in cities throughout Korea.
There are no special risks in the project. However,
future budgetary constraints could slow down project
/1 Given the long construction period for the barrage, an increase of
1-1/2 years of grace and a reduction of 3 years maturity compared to the
standard country terms applicable to Korea is recommended.
This docuamt tas a rcsueds dimttioln and may be ued by  ips ts onty in tho pkrfka rnoa r I
tdir officia duties. Its contents may not otamrwi be dislsed without Wodd B:-nk authorization.|



- ii -
implementation. This is not considered likely given the
high priority accorded to this project by Government. In
addition complementary Busan water and sewerage works
could suffer delays, but these works, already started,
are expected to be completed well before the barrage is
commissioned in 1988. Environmental risks have been
studied and minimized by special conditions included in
the project.  Assurances provided to the Bank by the
Government would mitigate these risks.
Project Costs:                                            Local  Foreign   Total
- -   ($ million)
Nagdong barrage                          69.8    53.2   123.0
Leak detection program                    2.2     3.4      5.6
Institutional improvements
program                                 0.2     0.8      1.0
Base cost                           72.2    57.4   129.6
Physical contingencies                   12.7     9.9    22.6
Price contingencies                      11.7    11.0    22.7
Total Project Cost /a               96.6    78.3   174.9
Interest during construction /b           2.0    18.6    20.6
Front-end fee                             0.0     0.2      0.2
Total to be financed                     98.6    97.1   195.7
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      0.0    78.5    78.5
ISWACO-s internal generation             26.7     0.0    26.7
Sales of reclaimed land                  46.8     0.0    46.8
Equity contributions                     22.2    17.8    40.0
Cities- internal generation               2.9     0.8      3.7
Total Financinu                     98.6    97.1   195.7
/a Including duties and taxes estimated at $8 million equivalent.
/b ISWACO practice is to capitalize interest during construction.



- iii -
Estimated                       Bank FY  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989
Disbursements:
Annual                  8.5   12.6   18.3   22.8   14.3        2.0
Cumulative              8.5   21.1   39.4   62.2   76.5    78.5
Rate of Return:  24!
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 4598-KO



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (NAGDONG BARRAGE)
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $78.5 million to help
finance a Second Water Supply Project. The loan is for a term of 12 years
including 4-1/2 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government will relend $73.5 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the Indus-
trial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation (ISUACO) and $5 mil-
lion, through the Ministry of Home Affairs (NOHA), to the project cities
on the same terms as the Bank loan plus an administrative fee of 0.05% p.a.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by ISWACO and the beneficiary
cities.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled 'Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment' was distributed under cover of Sec N82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in July 1983. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing
countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments
position financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the ability
to sustain a growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards had raised Korea s per
capita income to $1,700 by 1982, with more than 80% of the population above
the poverty line, and enabled her to join the ranks of the semi-industrial
nations. During this period, the share of the manufacturing sector in GNP
rose from 14Z to 29% while the share of agriculture fell from 39% to 17Z.
Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods, accounted for almost
41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades earlier and the balance of
payments position had been considerably strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor
force had been employed in agriculture. By L982, employment in this sector
had fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the



- 2 -
first half of the 70s. There was some deterioration in the income levels of
the rural households between 1978-81 but this appears to have now been
reversed.
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        Foreign borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and
export diversification resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled
the country to negotiate the first oil crisis without faltering, and
thereafter, to grow by 10% p.a. until 1978. However, the very success of the
Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious inflationary
pressures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78,
well in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price
Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in
1977. In addition, the large volume of subsidized credit which was made
available to the heavy and chemical industries by the financial system under
the Government-s direction, brought about an excessive expansion of capacity
in subsectors faced with weak demand while the traditional light industries
were frequently starved of funds. This trend was in line with the Govern-
ment's view of Korea's changing comparative advantage, but it created
structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector and in conjunction with
exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level, dampened export growth in
the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cu-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price
adjustment imposed by OPEC, raised Korea-s petroleum import bill from about
$2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced
incr-ease equal to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park
Chung Hee, the chief architect of Korea-s "economic miracle since the
mid-sixties, was assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest
political uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation
returning to normal only after a new Administration under President Chun Doo
Hwan was installed in September 1980). On top of these developments,
unfavorable weather reduced agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over
4% of GNP, and a 20% decline in investment led to a worsening of deflationary
pressures which could not be offset by the 10% growth of export volume. As a
result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in
1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw materials and foodstuffs pushed up
consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange
rate was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic
demand allowed export volume to increase by 10% in 1980 and a further 17%
in 1981. This very sizable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of
the current account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to
$4.6 billion (7.4Z of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages



- 3 -
following on the heels of a 5.0% drop in the previous year, together with
some levelling off of import prices, led to an easing of inflationary
pressures. These favorable developments continued through 1982, a year
which saw inflation declining to 7.3% and the payments deficit to 3.9% of
GNP, largely because of movements in the terms of trade favoring Korea,
modest success on the wages front and rather more conservative fiscal and
monetary policies.
8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered
heartening evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.3%) was
appreciably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased
only moderately, and the 62 rise in exports came largely from a surge in
sales of ships. Hence, in rhe first half of 1983 the Government moved to
stimulate domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of
the total budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This
served to stimulate construction activities in the public sector, but the
expectations generated by the Government's countercyclical action together
with the Prospects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a
boom in the private housing and real estate markets. As a number of major
industries producing basic materials supply inputs to construction
activities, their production rates rose quite sharplv and this served to
pull the GNP growth for the first two quarters of 1983 above 9%. However,
for the year as a whole, growth may be limited to between 7% and 8% because
persistent sluggishness in the OECD economies has held down the demand for
most Korean exports, with the exception of ships, appliances and electronic
products. Spending on construction is also expected to slacken in the
latter part of 1983 since it is the Government-s intention to try to hold
the current account deficit below the level of 1982.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.        When the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was prepared two years
ago, a growth rate of 7.62 p.a. was projected with export volume increasing
by 11% annually and the current account deficit declining gradually to
$3.6 billion by 1986. But with the ROP performance running well ahead of
the Fifth Plan targets and planners more sanguine regarding the eccnomy's
growth prospects, the Government has embarked upon a revision of the Plan,
to be completed by the close of 1983. Many of the objectives enunciated in
the earlier version of the Plan which have been pursued with considerable
success will be retained, such as: (a) price stability, (b) a lowering of
trade barriers, (c) financial liberalization, (d) energy conservation and
diversification by type and source, (e) increased spending on social
programs and (f) strengthening of the new export industries. But the
reviscd Plan is expected to underscore the need for Korea to contain
external borrowing thereby minimizing the expansion of its large external
debt. Technology absorption from abroad and the creation of domestic
research capability, seen as the key to future export dynamism, will also
receive more attention. In addition, the quest for efficiency in the



-4-
management and allocation of resources, especially in the public sector, will
be sharpened. The austere public expenditure program calliag for a balanced
budget (general account) by 1984 and the equally stringent monetary policy
which has been in force over the past year, should facilitate a progressive
reduction in the size of the current account deficit, with domestic savings
being encouraged by generous real interest rates for depositors (4-5% in 1983)
and price stability (3-4% inflation projected for 1983). Technology transfer
is being accelerated by integrating and expanding the efforts to induce direct
foreign investment, increase funding for research and venture capital for high
technology firms, by improving the quality of researchers in scientific
institutes and encouraging the large corporations to raise expenditures on
R&D. Lastly, a reform of public enterprise management, now being reviewed,
should contribute significantly to the cause of efficiency.
10.       During the 1970s, Korea's growth rate was extremely high - averaging
9.62 p.a. Such a performance might not be easily repeated in the current
decade given the trends in the international system and the very size of
Korea's economy and trade. But an increase in the GNP averaging 7-8%
annually could well be achieved, if the appropriate policies are followed,
through a 9-10% expansion in exports combined with judicious enlargement of
domestic demand.
External Resource Balance
11.       While total debt is high in absolute amounts, it is less so in
relation to the country's servicing capacity. In 1982, the ratio of debt to
exports of goods and services was still a moderate 130Z and the total debt
service ratio stood below 21%. These ratios, in fact exaggerate the debt
burden somewhat, as they include loans used for the purpose of financing the
rapidly rising exports of capital goods (most prominently ships) without
showing the balancing effect on net foreign debts of rising foreign exchange
claims on the rest of the world. The high share of short-term maturities in
total debt (37%) is the most unfavorable aspect of the debt situation, but
under the Stand-By Agreement with the IMF, special attention is being given
to its reduction over the next 18 months. The gross borrowing program
envisaged by the Government (about $6 billion p.a. through 1986) though
fairly large in absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of availability, and
prudent in terms of Korea's debt service capacity provided that the export
projections are realized and the borrowing rates decline. With such a level
of borrowing, Korea's external debt as a ratio to GNP would decline from 56%
currently to below 45% in 1986, while the debt service ratio (including
interest on short-term debt) would fall to 17%. Although this is lower than
the debt service ratios projected for many other newly industrializing
countries, the magnitude of Korea's outstanding debt and the lowered tolerance
of bankers towards risk, suggest that it would be desirable for the current
account deficit to be kept below 2% of GNP for 1986, which appears feasible.



-5 .
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of March 31, 1983, Korea had received 66 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $4,060 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,012.8 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years.  Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of March 31, 19B3. Progress
on project implementation is generally satisfactory, and implementation
e       delays have been addressed which had occurred in several projects - mainly
irrigation, highways and population - due primarily to shortfalls in
Government budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns during a
period of high domestic inflation. The issue has been reviewed with the
Government which has taken measures to increase local funding of Bank-
financed projects. However, as the Govermnent's budgetary situation
continues to be tight, the status and plans for counterpart contributions
will remain an integral part of country implementation reviews held jointly
with the Government. Nevertheless, despite the recent delays, Korea's
disbursement rate remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East
Asia.
13.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making
sector loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and
institutional issues. This transformation in the Bank's lending approach,
made possible by the relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is
working well. Sector loans have already been made for Education and
Industrial Finance and are under preparation for the Transport, Agriculture
and Urban sectors. The Bank has also made one Structural Adjustment loan
(SAL), which complements this approach by concentrating on issues that have
macro and multi-sectoral impact, and a second SAL is under preparation.
14.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the
performance of the financial system and at developing the technological
capabilities of Korean enterprises. So far trade and incentives issues
have been addressed through the SAL. Issues pertaining to the strengthening
of the financial system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for
industrial finance. For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by
the Board in June 1983 supports the Government's ongoing program of
financial sector reform. The Bank's technology enhancement objectives are
being pursued through two projects approved in 1982, one for the Korea
Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) which finances research,
development and engineering and the other for the machinery industries which



- 6 -
is designed to provide financial and technical assistance to raise Lhe
productivity of small and medium machinery firms. Future lending planned
for industry in Korea would include continued support for the financial
sector reform, for KTDC, and for the small and medium-industry subsector
which is expected to play an important role in the growth of the
skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage of
development of Korean industry.
15.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited
reflecting the completion of major infrastructure works. A planned sector
loan would address a number of policy and institutional issues related to
Korean agriculture which are now being defined in a sector survey.  This                    S
would complement public finance issues related to farm subsidies and the
restructuring of agroindustries being handled under the proposed second SAL.
Loan funds are tentatively planned to be directed to credit institutions to
support long term lending to farmers and other private entrepreneurs in the
sector.
16.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. Proposed future
operations would address sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving
the integration of investment planning, energy conservation and transport
efficiency related to regulation and road user charges. Those transport
issues which involve macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the
economy, such as relative fuel prices, are being handled within the context
of the proposed SAL.
17.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the require-
ments for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market indus-
trial diversification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved
in 1980, was aimed at improving engineering and management education and
technician training. Under preparation is a proposed second sector loan
which would support measures designed to improve qualitative aspects of
secondary and higher level science and technology education.
18.      The Bank-s recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
two regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and one
water supply project. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the avail-
ability of basic services such as housing, water supply, and transportation
in the cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas.
New projects in urban transport, local government finance and water supply
are under preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and
institution-building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by
moving gradually to a sector approach, first in housing.



19.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1982 was about 13%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are
expected to be around 11% and 8% respectively by the mid-1980s.
PART III - THE WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
20.       Background.  Korea's urban population has been increasing by 5%
p.a. or about three times the estimated growth rate of the total population.
e        By the end of the century the population living in cities of more than
50,000 inhabitants is expected to include about 80% of the total population.
This rapid urbanization, equivalent to doubling the urban population every
14 years, has stretched all urban services, especially water supply, and
coupled wich accelerated industrial growth and the lower priority given to
the sector earlier, has resulted in a decline in the quality of the environ-
ment as well as water shortages and rationing in most cities. Starting in
the 1970's, the Government began to give increased priority to the social
services. This included significant improvements in the water supply sector
and in related health conditions. Water-borne diseases have declined
steadily since 1971. The crude death rate declined from 13 to 7 per
thousand persons between 1960-81, while life expectancy increased from 53 to
66 years in this period.
21.       Sector Organization.  There is no single agency in charge of over-
all planning and programming of the water supply and sanitation sector. At
the central Government level, four ministries are directly involved in the
sector and often have overlapping responsibilities. The Ministry of
Construction (MOC), through its Water Resources and Urban Planning Bureaus,
is responsible for major water and sewerage works as well as collecting
hydrological data, issuing licenses for abstraction of water from the major
rivers and planning multipurpose dams. The Industrial Sites and Water
Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO), also under MOC, is responsible
for the operation of bulk water sources servicing multiple cities and the
development of multipurpose dams. ISWACO would be the implementing agency
for the proposed barrage. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MORA), through its
Local Finance Bureau, oversees the operation of the City Water Bureaus (WBs)
including the approval of bonds, loans, tariffs and the expansion of
distribution and storage facilities.  The WBs are   -:ponsible for the
construction, design and operation of water works under the municipal
governments, subject to MOHA overview. The accounting, revenues, costs and
budgets of the WBs are separated from those of the municipality. The
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) is responsible for the
standards and quality control of drinking water and for implementing the
rural water supply program, a successful program which is expected to be
completed by 1986. The Office of Environment (OOE) under MOHSA establishes
norms for pollution control (solid, liquid and air), and regulates and
coordinates pollution control activities. OOE must also approve all
projects which have an important impact on the environment under powers



8 -
vested in it by the Environmental Preservation Law. Finaly, the vconomic
PlannFng Board (EPB) sets guidelines on  ariffs through its Price Policy
Bureau ansi allocates counterpart funds for MOC-s foreizn funded projects.
22.       The expansion of water production capacity is partly financed by
funds budgeted by MOC and provided to the cities as loans through the Korea
Development Bank (KDB). The balance of funds required for expansion of
production and construction of distribution facilities are financed by the
UBs- internal generation and by local city bonds.  In the rural sector, the
provincial governments, the villages and MORSA each finance one third of the
cost. Tariffs are set by the municipalities, with the approval of MOHA and
in general cover the costs of operation, debt service and some contribution
to capital investment. EPB provides guidelines for maximum tariff increases
which reflect macroeconomic policies. Sewerage is financed by city revenues
and Government and foreign loans; separate sewerage tariffs are now being
introduced in the major cities.
23.       Service Levels. About 55% of Korea-s population was served by
piped water supply systems in 1980, compared with 17% in 1960 and 33% in
1970. The levels of service are better (83Z) in larger cities where high
population density and polluted aquifers leave no alternative to publicly
supplied water. However the reliability of water supply services is gener-
ally poor. The fringe areas of many cities suffer from restricted supply,
water rationing and frequent low pressure. Water produced by municipal
systems averages about 260 liters per capita per day (lped), which includes
high industrial and commercial demand. However, one quarter to one half of
the water produced is unaccounted for, with leakage being a major factor.
This problem would be addressed, on a pilot basis, by the national leak
detection program under this project.
24.       In a sample of cities with populations over 50,000 only 22% of
dwellings had flush toilets in 1979, the rest used night soil collection
systems. Most of the waste water from domestic septic tanks and industrial
use is discharged untreated into the surface waters. This situation is now
improving. Seoul and Busan, the two largest cities, along with several
other cities and towns have sewage or night soil treatment plants for about
one third of their population.
25.       Sector Developments. Sector investment at 1983 prices increased
from $218 million in the Third Plan (1972-76), to $530 million in the
Fourth Plan (1977-81) and is forecast at $1,442 million for the Fifth Plan
(1982-86). Government objectives during the Fifth Plan include preservation
of water quality, replacement of obsolete equipment, construction of new
sewerage and sewage treatment works and expansion in capacity and coverage
of water supply systems. The target for 1986 is to increase the population
served by treated water from 55% to 70%. Given the high rate of urban pop-
ulation growth, maintaining even the present coverage requires substantial
investments. The Fifth Plan covers a number of environmenta'l pollution
abatement measures including a pollution study of the Han River Basin,
expansion of sewerage systems and the building of night soil and sewage



treatment plants in some 100 cities and tow-ns. Government plans to _.ncrease
the percentage of population served by sewage treatment plents from 6% to
35Z and the sewage treatment capacity from 0.5 million C0 to 8 million C0D
during the period 1980-1991. Sewerage investments in the Fifth Plan are
estimated at $1 billion in 1982 prices.
26.       Issues and Constraints. The fragmentation of responsibilities in
the water supply and sewerage sector in Korea amongst four ministries has
resulted in a lack of coordination in sector planning. Rivalry between the
two principal ministries responsible for the sector, HOC and NOEL causes, at
times, each to pursue its own priorities without reference to overall sector
*      objectives.  Some of the responsibilities of the sector agencies are highly
complementary, requiring close coordination and cooperation (e.g. MOHA needs
to strengthen IBs- finances and operations in anticipation of facilities
planned for construction by HOC, and needs to approve bonds and tariffs
required to finance such investments). Under the First Water Supply Project
(Loan 2072-KO) agreement was reached with the Government to establish an
Interministerial Committee (}IC). This has been done under terms of reference
agreed to by the various ministries and the Bank. The INC will study these
coordination problems and make recommendations to delineate more precisely the
respective responsibilities. The INC has nw approved a work plan which
includes reviewing the sector organization study completed by consultants
during the preparation of the recently approved ADB Small Towns Water Supply
Project. Final recommendations to improve sector coordination would be
completed by December 31, 1984.
27.       While local water facilities are well operated technically, the WBs
financial and management practices require improvement. Deficiencies include
a high level of unaccounted for water, the use of single entry accounting,
manual billing, outdated management system and insufficient staff. The
project addresses these problems through two national components, which would
introduce in WBs measures for leakage detection and institutional improvements
in accounting and financial management. The latter would reinforce MOHA-s
efforts to implement improved financial and managerial procedures for all WBs.
At present there are no Government financial targets for either ISIACO or the
WBs. Under this project initial financial performance targets have been
established for the Water and Dams Divisions of ISWACO and pricing policies
based on the marginal cost of water made available by the barrage would be
implemented.
28.       Korea does not have a well-developed system for mobilizing and
allocating resources for the sector. Although water projects require
lengthy construction periods and provide service for many years, the main
resources available are internal revenues and short-term borrovings. This
results in investment lagging behind demand and in higher debt service pay-
ment than if long-term financing were available- As one option toward
building a reliable source of long-term funds for the sector, the Bank has
ongoing discussions with the Government regarding the establishment of an
urban fund to finance, inter alia, water supply investments.
29.       Bank Lending in the Sector.  Bank objectives in che sector are:
(a) to promote adequate, reliable and affordable water and sanitation



- 10 -
services; (b) to help strengthen the institutions and imprc;e coordination
within the sector, particularly in the area of investment planning; and (c) to
develop a solid financial basis for the sector, including improved cost
recovery through better pricing policies anid. access to long-term resources.
This project would be part of the Bank7s overall assistance to Korea to
improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. A critical urban
service in a densely populated country such as Korea is the provision of
reliable water for residential and industrial use. Bank support for water
supply is expected to improve the quality of life for all Koreans and to help
eliminate water supply bottlenecks which could affect continued economic
growth. The Bank is in close contact with other international agencies (ADB,
DECF and UNDP) who are actively supporting the development of this sector.
30.       The Bank has helped finance several Drojects with sectoral compo-
nents: (a) the Chungju Multipurpose Dam Project (Loan 1666-KO) where about
one third of the benefits are for water supply; Cb) the Rural Infrastructure
I and II Projects (Loans 1216-KO and 1530-KO) which financed 11,400 water
supply systems for villages; (c) a Rezional Project in Gwanzju (Loan
1758-KO) which included water supply for provincial cities and industrl '
sites; and (d) the Kyongju Tourism Project (Loan 953-KO), which includes water
supply and sewerage. The ongoing projects are being implemented satisfac-
torily. For Loan 1216-KO OED has prepared an Audit Report which notes that
almost twice the originally planned number of village water systems had been
satisfactorily implemented without delay and for Loan 953-KO the Completion
Report stated that the water supply component had been implemented
satisfactorily but that slow growth in tourism had resulted in excess capacity
and poorer than anticipated financial performance for the water supply
component. The proposed Jeonju Regional Project (under preparation) vould
include water supply and distribution facilities for Jeonju City. In
addition, the First Water Supply Project (Loan 2072-KO), approved in 1982, is
financing the expansion of the water supply systems in five cities (Daegu,
Gwangju, Masan, Changweon and Jinhae).  The hiring of consultants for
supervision resulted in some initial delays but the project is now being
executed smoothly and should be completed as scheduled. Compliance with
covenants is satisfactory. Reduced Government expenditures in 1983 resulted
in budget deficiencies in some of the project cities. The budget shortfall
has been discussed with the Government. At a recent meeting of the IMC,
satisfactory financial plans were agreed for 1983 and 1984, which include
further tariff increases before end-1983, bonds, government loans and grants.
There is a lack of basic information on availability of manpower in the water
sector and on training needs. To overcome this, a Sector Manpower Survey, for
which TOR have been discussed, is to be carried out by MOC under Loan 2072-KO.
Training programs for the sector will be based on findings of this survey and
further studies envisaged under the current ADE Small Towns Water Supply
Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       Formulation and preparation of the proposed project grew out of
the Bank-s involvement in the water supply sector. The feasibility and



- 11 -
final design studies were completed by Dutch consultants (NEDECO), financed
under the Chungju Multipurpose Dam Project (Loan 1666-KO). The identification
mission took place in December 1982, preappraisal in February 1983 and
appraisal in May 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from September
6-10, 1983.  The Korean delegation was led by Mr. Wei Sung-Yong, Economic
Counsellor, Embassy of Korea. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4598-KO) is
being distributed separately. A supplemental project data sheet, including a
timetable of kLy events and a summary of special conditions, is attached as
Annex III.
Project Objectives
32.       The objectives of the project are to:
(a) eliminate the problem of water salinity at the river intakes for
the cities of Busan and Ulsan/Onsan and the Gimbae agricultural
area;
(b) make available to Busan as well as 12 other cities and 24 towns
about 25 cu mis of river water which is presently released from
upstream dams to prevent sea water intrusion into the Nagdong
river;
(c) transfer technology in the area of leak detection and control,
and implement such programs in about 15 medium cities where
unaccounted-for water exceeds 30%;
5d) establish improved accounting and management information systems,
including microcomputer software and hardware, which would be
implemented and tested in about 15 WBs and extended to other WBs;
(e) implement sound financial practices and water pricing policies in
ISWACO; and
(f) protect the Nagdong-s estuarine environment and develop within
ISWACO environmental management expertise.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project includes three components:
(a) The Nagdong Barrage. The barrage is located at the mouth of the
Nagdong River at Hadandong, and consists of a 510m long concrete
barrage with its appurtenant works, dikes (1200m) and closure
dam (700m), dredging and land reclamation works (190 ha).
The barrage includes a discharge sluice in the closure dam, a
navigation lock, fish passes, a four-lane road, and service and
operation facilities. The project also provides for the
systematic survey and monitoring of the estuarine environment,
quantitative and qualitative ecologiczl impact studies and the
preparation and implementation of a long-term environmental
protection program by ISWACO; microcomputers for environmental and
financial management are also included;



- 12 -
(b) A Leak Detection Program. This program, is designed to reduce the
large wastage of water, decrease the associated expenses in
chemicals and energy, and lessen the magnitude of future invest-
ments required to expand water supply capacity. Appropriate
methodologies will be implemented to detect and correct water
leakage in 15 critical cities on a pilot basis. Experience gained
will allow replication nationwide. Equipment to detect leaks will
be acquired and the staff of the cities- WBs will be trained in
this technology which is practically new to Korea; and
(c) An Institutional Development Program. This program comprises
the acquisition of microcomputer hardware as well as the design,
preparation, testing and dissemination of microcomputer software                 S
for the WBs throughout Korea. By developing common programs to
handle billing, general accountlig, payroll, inventory
management and other functions, this component would assist in
strengthening the accounting, financial and managerial
capabilities of WBs. Initially the system will be designed for
and tested in about 15 cities, later to be made available to all
WBs in Korea.
34.       Complementary Works. Busan is the largest port and the second
largest city in Korea with a population of about 3.4 million. Busan will
use about half of the water made available by the barrage. As a resalt of
the project it will be relieved of water rationing and salinity problems,
and have improved road access to the west, as well as 190 ha of reclaimed
land for industrial and residential use. During the next few years, Busan
will carry out a major water and sewerage works expansion program to be
partly financed by the Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)
and by commercial loans. These works, already started by Busan, were
reviewed by the Bank. The total cost is $130 million and the financing plan
is satisfactory. These works are an important complement for the timely
achievement of barrage benefits. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during loan negotiations that, not later than December 31, 1987,
Busan would: (i) expand the water supply capacity including transmission,
treatment and distribution facilities by 500,000 CMD of water, increasing
the percentage of population connected from 90% to 95%; (ii) build the Jang
Lim interceptor sewer along the east river bank to intercept and safely
dispose of the domestic and industrial wastes presently discharged into the
river; and (iii) make the minor modifications necessary to existing storm
water drainage pumping stations serving the diked areas adjacent to the
barrage (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Water supply expansion
works are being built satisfactorily by other main cities (Daegu,
Ulsan/Onsan, Masan, Changweon, etc.) or are planned by MOC for the smaller
towns.
35.       Implementation.  ISWACO, a Government-owned corporation under the
Ministry of Construction, would be the executing agency for the Nagdong
Barrage. ISWACO was established on February 1, 1974, pursuant to the law for



- 13'-
the promotion of industrial sites and the development of water resources to
undertake development of (a) industrial sites and special areas; (b) water
resources for irrigation, flood control, electric power generation, and
industrial and municipal water supply; and (c) to operate and maintain
multipurpose dams and facilities which provide bulk water for industrial and
municipal consumption. ISWACO has planned and constructed five industrial
estates, three shipyards, and four multipurpose dams. Three industrial
estates, one new industrial town and one multipurpose dam are presently under
construction. In addition to the Nagdong Barrage, seven dams are being
considered for construction between 1984 and 1994. ISWACO has developed into
a large and competent organization with a head office staff of 530 and another
680 in its branch offices.  Many of ISWACO's 500 engineers have been trained
abroad, and while working together with foreign consultants, have acquired
considerable experience in the design, construction and operation of large
projects.
36.       The two national components would be implemented by the Local
Finance Division of MOHA with the assistance of local and foreign consultants.
MOHA is also being strengthened by the addition of engineers and financial
analysts under a water sector loan for smnll cities recently approved by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). MOHA developed new accounting guidelines for
all WBs which were reviewed and found-satisfactory by the Bank. In addition
to implementing the two national programs, the Local Finance Division would
coordinate and provide support for the Busan City water and sewerage
components which would be implemented, respectively, by the Water and
Construction Bureaus of the city, with support from local consultants.
37.       The project would be implemented between October 1983 and June 1988.
The project is in an advanced stage of preparation, bidding for the Barrage
has been completed, following ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank, and the
contract was awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder on September 10, 1983.
The responsibility for engineering and procurement would rest with ISWACO
Headquarters at Daejeon, while construction supervision, supported by con-
sultants, would be under a project office to be set up by ISWACO at the
barrage site. ISWAC0's Director of Water Resources would serve as Project
Director, reporting directly to the President of ISWACO. Resources for
managing the estuary environment have been included in the project cost.
ISWACO has established an Environmental Management Unit (EMU) which is
responsible for the protection of the environment during project construction
and would carry out studies for its continuous protection thereafter.  EMU has
been staffed by ISWACO including expatriate environmental management specia-
lists. Assurances were obtained from ISWACO that an Environmental Management
Section would also be established before December 31, 1984 (Section 3.04 and
Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement). This Section, under the Director
of Planning, would eventually supervise EMU, g.ee ISWACO advice on environ-
mental matters, and provide the capacity to integrate environmental concerns
in future projects.



- 14 -
38.       Consulting services for final design, including the preparation of
bids and evaluation of prequalification and bid proposals were financed from
Loan 1666-K0 (Chungju Multipurpose Dam). NEDECO, which has extensive domestic
and international experience in drainage and flood control works, was selected
in accordance with Bank procedures to assist in construction supervision and
environmental management of the project. About 350 man-months of foreign
assistance have been allocated for this purpose. ISWACO personnel would be
responsible for the project-s management, and would be the local counterpart
staff.  About 200 man-months of foreign consultants, and about 320 maa-months
of local consultants would be needed for the leak detection and institutional
improvement programs. ISWACO has appointed an Expert Review Panel (ERP) to
advise its management on design and any special technical problems encountered           0
in the project. The panel consists of a concrete dam design expert and a
geotechnical engineer. The final design, and bid documents were prepared
accordingly and were agreed between ISWACO, ERP, NEDECO and the Bank.
39.       Cost Estimates.  The total cost of the project, including physical
and price contingencies, is estimated at $174.9 million, of which $78.3 mil-
lion or about 45% would be the foreign exchange component. Taxes and duties
are estimated at $8 million equivalent. The base cost is expressed in
September 1983 prices, based on the contract prices for the Barrage. Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 17% of total base cost. Expected price
increases over the project period amount to about 15% of total base costs plus
physical contingencies. Price increases for foreign costs were estimated at
8% for 1983, 7.52 for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% p.a. thereafter. Local price
contingencies assume that Korea-s inflation in 1983 will be 5% and would be
equal thereafter to the increase in foreign costs. The consultant cost for
the supervision of the barrage and environmental management is estimated at $5
million, and for leak detection and institutional development is estimated at
$4.3 milL.on. The average man-month cost (including salary, fees, inter-
national travel and subsistence) is $10,500, the average local and expatriate
man-month costs are $6,000 (320 man-months) and $13,500 (550 man-months)
respectively. About 750 families living in the barrage area would be required
to relocate and 310 ha of low-lying agricultural land and some urban land
would be acquired by ISWACO. In addition, fishermen would be compensated for
loss of fishing rights during the construction period. The total cost of land
and other forms of compensation is estimated at $20 million exclusive of price
contingencies. Land acquisitiou and compensations are being undertaken by a
joint committee representing Busan City, MOC and ISWACO. Relocation and
compensation plans were reviewed by Bank staff and found satisfactory. ISWACO
and the Government have satisfactorily executed many similar programs. Agree-
ment has been reached with the Government that the compensation and relocation
programs would be periodically reviewed by the Bank and tie Government.
40.       Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of $78.5 million, including
thc capitalized front-end fee of $0.2 million, would finance 47% of total
project costs excluding taxes, or about 40.1% of the gross costs of $195.7
million, including interest during construction ($20.8 million). ISWACO



- 15 -
would contribute $26.7 million (13.6% of gross costs), Government equity
$40 million (20.5%), sales of reclaimed land $46.8 million (23.9%), and cities
internal generation $3.7 million (1.9%). The financing plan was reviewed
during loan negotiations and Government contributions of W 31 billion
during 1984-86 were confirmed including W 14 billion for 1984. Given the
long time required to build the project and start collecting revenues,
ISWACO requested a longer grace period (4.5 rather than 3 years) and shorter
maturity (12 years rather than 15) for the proposed loan than is standard
for Bank lending to Korea.  These terms are recommended.  The Government
would relend to ISWACO $73.5 million of the Bank loan and the remaining $5
million through MOHA to the project cities for the two national components.
*        Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between ISWACO and the Government
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The terms and conditions to ISWACO and the project cities are
the same as for the Bank loan plus a 0.05% p.a. handling charge. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by ISUACO and the cities benefitting
from the two national components.
41.       Procurement and Disbursement.  All civil works and equipment for
the barrage, estimated at $81 million in 1983 prices, have been procured
through international competitive bidding following Bank guidelines. The
single contract for the Barrage ensures proper integration of the different
project components and the earliest completion of the project. Advance
contracting has been included given the urgency to start the construction in
October during the 1983 dry season, to avoid a yeares delay in project
completion. The leak detection equipment would also be procured following
ICB procedures. Microcomputers up to $400,000 in aggregate value would be
procured through prudent international shopping. Consultants for the two
national programs would be hired following Bank guidelines. The proceeds of
the loan would be disbursed against: (a) 55% of the total expenditures
for the Barrage (which includes civil works and equipment); (b) 100% of the
foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for micro-
computer hardware and software and equipment for leak detection and for
monitoring the environment (c) 100% of the initial mobilization payment for
the Nagdong Barrage; and (d) 100% of the cost of consulting services and
training. Retroactive financing for payments made after October 1, 1983 for
engineering and environmental consultants up to $0.5 million have been
included since these consultants are required well before the construction
starts. Given the advanced stage of project preparation and contracting,
disbursements of the proposed loan are expected to take five years, somewhat
faster than the average time indicated by the country disbursement profile.
The Closing Date would be June 30, 1989.
42.       Cost Recovery.  ISWACO s main source of revenue is the sale of
water to cities and of power to Korea Electric Power Company (KEPCO) by
ISWACO-s Water and Dams Divisions. It also receives revenues from the
sales, at cost, of industrial sites. Although ISWACO-s cash position is



- 16
satisfactory, its water and power charges are not necessarily related to the
cost of the services provided, and no criteria or guidelines have been set by
the government to gauge the appropriateness of the annual revenues. ISWACO
fixed assets have not been revalued since 1977, partially because of the
cumbersome procedures required. Agreement has been reached that the two
income-generating divisions in ISWACO (Water and Dams) would revalue their
assets according to Korean law not later than December 31, 1984. For rate
analysis, the value of these assets would be updated annually, using 85% of
the increase in the wholesale price index as a reasonable proxy for the cost
of capital goods (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). Agreement has
also been reached with ISWACO that the revenue of the Water and Dams Division
would cover their operation, maintenance and administration, and provide a
rate of return, on revalued assets of 4% in 1984185 and 5% thereafter (Section
4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Achievement of these initial targets is
feasible but would require considerable efforts. In the Dams Division, which
presently has a negative rate of return, water charges would need to increase
by 26%, and power charges would double in real terms by 1986. Water charges
for the bulk water provided bv the Water Division would also he increased 30Z
in real terms between 1983 and 1989.  The proposed rate of return would allow
ISWACO to provide an internal contribution of 19% to ISWACO-s large dams
investment program between 1983-86 ($1090 million). Agreement has also been
reached that ISWACO's future investment plans, including five-year financial
projections, would be presented annually to the Bank and that ISWACO would not
incur any additional long-term debt, without prior Bank concurrence, unless
its debt service coverage exceeds 1.3 in anv succeeding fiscal year (Section
4.06 and 4.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement). A system of monitoring
indicators and targets would be established for the Water and Dams Divisions
not later than March 31, 1984, to he reported semi-annually to the Bank
(Section 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
43.       The cost of this multipurpose project have been allocated to, and
would be recovered from, its beneficiaries (water supply, land reclamation,
agriculture, land appreciation, power and bridge benefits (river crossing)).
About 45% of the Barrage-s cost is allocated to water supply. Letters of
understanding for cost recovery have already been signed between the main
beneficiary cities and ISWACO. Agreement was also reached that upon
completion of the Barrage, the water made available would be charged at its
long-term marginal cost at a discount rate acceptable to the Bank (Section
4.08 of the draft Project Agreement). Although the application of marginal
cost pricing to this project will have only a relatively small impact on
ISWACO's overall revenue, the acceptance and demonstration of this principle
is a major institutional innovation which, when extended to future projects,
would improve ISWACO's capacity to self-finance additional water works and
would promote efficient use of water resources in Korea.



- 17 -
44.       Operation and Maintenance.  ISWACO has considerable experience in
the operation and maintenance of multipurpose dams. Key personnel of ISWACO
will be trained on-site and abroad under the main construction contract and
be employed in the inspection of equipment, installation and performance
testing to become thoroughly familiar with the equipment and its operation.
Basic principles of barrage operation have been established but further
studies are needed to specify operating rules to minimize any unfavorable
ecological effects of the barrage. The proposed barrage, although a rela-
tively large structure, has a low head and volume of storage and would not
cause serious damage in the unlikely event of failure. Assurances were
obtained from ISWACO that a suitable maintenance and inspection program for
the barrage would be available for Bank review not later than December 31,
1986. ISWACO's proposal would include a description and schedule of the
maintenance and inspection program (Section 2.06 of the draft Project
Agreement).
45.       Accounts and Audit.  ISWACO has a satisfactory accounting system
and its 1982 financial statements were audited by a large and respected
Korean firm. MOHA's accounting procedures are satisfactory. Agreement has
been reached that within six months from the end of each fiscal year (a)
ISWACO would submit their financial statements, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Project
Agreement), and (b) MOHA would submit its project component cost accounts,
as audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.05 (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Justification and Benefits.  The proposed project meets urgent
needs for water for 37 cities and towns in the Nagdong River Basin, includ-
ing Busan and Daegu (the second and third largest cities in Korea), and
Ulsan/Onsan (an important industrial area). The project gives special
emphasis to protection of the environment and the application of sound
financial policies, which are expected to increase efficiency in the alloca-
tion and use of water resources. In addition, the project provides assis-
tance to transfer appropriate technology and institutional improvements in
the area of leak detection and control, as well as institutional assistance
in financial, management and accounting areas. These institution building
components are expected to have a large multiplier effect and eventually
improve many WBs in Korea.
47.       The main beneficiary would be the city of Busan, whose programs
for water service improvement will have to be curtailed if no additional
water is made available. Busan is already suffering from salinity problems,
which result in discontinuous supply and may cause considerable damage to
installations using this water. About one million more persons, including
300,000 in relative poverty,/l would receive water in Busan by 1988. Overall
/1 Persons with income below one-third of the country's average per capita
income.



- 18 -
the project would improve supply to about 7.8 million persons who now depend
on an unreliable supply from the Nagdong River, and would provide water to
serve about 4 million additional persons by 1992. Most of those presently
without publicly supplied water have low incomes and about one million of them
are below the relative poverty line. In addition, the project would (a)
assure the water requirements of an important industrial zone, accounting
for some 40% of Korea-s industrial production; (b) benefit agricultural
development, and eliminate the threat of salinity affecting the productive
capacity of the 15,000 ha Gimhae polder, one of the most fertile and largest
agricultural areas in the Nagdong Basin; (c) reclaim 190 ha of prime land
needed by Busan, (d) improve transportation access to the west by providing
a four-lane road over the barrage and (e) save power expenditures at Andong
by minimizing the need to pump-back water for peak electricity generation.
The economic rate of return (ERR) of the barrage, which represents 95Z of
the project cost, is 24%. Sensitivity analyses show that if the water
supply benefits are reduced by 10% the ERR is 22%, and if the agricultural
or land reclamation benefits are excluded the ERR vould still be 23Z and
12%, respectively. A two year delay in completing the project would reduce
the ERR to 15%. These ERRs are conservative estimates of the project
benefits and do not include the improvement in living standards of the
present population due to a saline-free, reliable water supply.
48.       Project Risk.  There are no special risks in the project.  However,
large Government investments in other projects could reduce the annual budge-
tary allocations that are necessary for speedy implementation and thereby
delay project benefits. In addition, there is a risk that Busan water works
extensions, which have already started, and the sewer interceptor could
suffer some delays. The Government has provided assurances that Busan will
complete these works by December 31, 1987 which is before the barrage starts
operating in 1988. Environmental risks have been minimized by studies,
barrage location and design and special conditions included in the project.
49.       Environmental Aspects.  The Nagdong estuary is the main bird
habitat in Korea and an important wintering and passage ground for numerous
bird species. While the principal objective of the barrage is to improve
the living conditions of the large population suffering from saline and
inadequate water supply, a major concern in developing the project has been
the protection of the environment. The environmental impact of the barrage
on the bird habitat in the estuary was studied and reported on by NEDECO.
While it is recognized that environmental changes due to the construction of
the barrage and the closure of the right river branch will have an effect on
the estuarine ecosystem, adequate safeguards have been incorporated in the
design of the barrage (underflow and overflow gates, discharge sluice in
closure dam, fish passes, etc.) and in the control of the construction
operations, particularly the dredging operations and selection of borrow
areas, to minimize adverse effects. The Environmental Impact Assessment on



- 19 -
the barrage prepared by ISWACO has been reviewed by the Office of Environment
(OOE). OOE has approved the construction, subject to ISWACO surveying, moni-
toring and protecting the habitat and the bird life. ISWACO will do this in
close cooperation with established environmental associations and univer-
sities. These actions would be implemented by the EMU which would take
counter-measures to minimize adverse effects detected both during and after
construction. OOE will monitor results through receiving quarterly progress
reports. The land reclamation component has been reduced during the design
stage from the originally proposed 600 ha to only 190 ha, bordering developed
areas of Busan City on the left bank. Quite apart from the environmental
considerations arising from the construction of the Barrage, a major threat to
the birdlife is the population pressure to reclaim additional land from the
sea. The present status of the area as a -National Monument- has not pre-
vented this reclamamation in the past. This requires the establishment of a
"Natural Ecological System Preservation Area' which will provide maximum
protection under the law and will prevent land reclamation or any other
activity damaging to the bird habitat. Assurances have been obtained that
(a) the enviromental actions recommended by OOE would be implemented and
(b) EMU would prepare not later than December 31, 1984, a study, under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the intertidal areas which should be
fully protected (Section 3.04 and Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement).
Based on this study, as reviewed by OOE and the Bank, MOC would designate not
later than June 30, 1985, a zone in the estuary a 'Natural Environment
Preservation Area" under the National Land Use and Management Law. This is an
intermediary legal step required for OOE to designate within this zone of the
estuary and not later than December 31, 1985 a "Natural Ecological System
Preservation Area" under the Environmental Preservation Law (Section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed zone would be inside the boundaries
of National Monument #179 and would limit further fishing and agricultural
development and curtail land reclamation in the critical areas of the estuary.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ISWACO, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and ISWACO is an
additional condition of effectiveness. (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
September 28, 1983
Washington, D.C.
S



- 21 -                                           Page 1 of 5
moia   W       P - WOIAL 1UC413 PA1  UNIT
mm3 Boomtj w                    luU3N   GuN mUNTD01
awn ucr    muaa                  mu a
ACIIICULTIUAL    22.3            I90 k    1970 .b  ITDTOUT k          ABU4 PACIFIC   LATIN AmICA & CA3INRAN
air M  CAPITA (USS)                110.0      420.0   1320.0                 no.1                 1030.0
Mmd  CHSUHPION PIS CAPITA
M mA   OF CL M  IJfLVAIRa)    200.0           657.3   147n.s                 701.7                1219.9
POPULATION UDD VITAL STATUTCS
tOULATI T. mID-AN RTAISllC) 23012.0    3224t.O  2319.0
URBAN POUATN (PU         er TAL) 27.7        40.7      31.3                 32.4 ;.
POPLATION PRJCTIOID.
POPULTION  Is no 200o WILLIOM)                       32.1
SSATIOA0 ProULATrON (MILIONS)                        70.3
yAD STATIORIY PoPULATION  RCI A065*
POPULATION DWImM5
PER Sq. Ru.                    254.0      327.4     31.3                 233.3                  35.2
PEL sq. DI. AGRICULTUAL LAO   1111.3     139.1   114.4                  1743.0                  2.3
POPULITION AGE STRUCTUR (PUCINT)
0-1.4 ns.                       42.9       42.1      33.1                 29.9                  39.7
15-B4 IRS.                       33.7       34.6     61.1                  30.3                 30.1
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                 3.3        3.3       3.3                  3.3                  4.2
POPUATION SIOUTH RATE (VIEW?)
TOTAL                            2.1        2.3       1.9                  2.3                   2.4
LUBAN                            A.         6.4      4.9                  3.9                   3.8
CRUDE  3RTTH NATE (PER TNOUSAND)    42.1     3n.3      25.3                 31.S                 31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIOUSAD)    13.4        9.1      7.9                  9.J                   8.4
GROSS REPROUCION RATS              2.7        2.1      1.6                   1.0                  2.1
rFAIILI PLANNING
A-CCTRS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       *-      671.0    686.01c
USERS (PERCEJir o NAED WM)   ..            32.0     A9.1                  36.3
FOOD MID NUTRITIN
INDEX or OOD VRWUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       S9.0        99.0    113.0                115.6                 110.0
PER CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALORIS (VINCENT OF
.RSmQlRDIENTS)                97.4      107.0    117.2/d               106.4                 108.4
PRtoMINS (GRMS PER FAY)         57.1       02.8     72.171               53.4                  64.0
oF WHICH ANTNAZ AND PULSE      7.0        3.2      14.3T                13.9                  34.0
CHID (ArES 1-4) NKRELITm RATE     f.S         3.9      2.1                  6.7                   5.6
HEALTH
LIFE ExPECTrANC  T NIRTH (EANS)   34.6       60.3     65.4                 59.8                  64.2
INFANT NORTkLITl RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         78.3       50.1     34.1                 63.7                  64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE wATEm (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                           12.1       S3.0      71.0                3Z.0                   65.6
UAN                             18.6       00.0     85.0                  51.9                 78.9
RURAL                            9.5       33.0     54.9                 20.5                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                      25.0      64.01-               37.7                 59.3
lUglAN                            ..       59.0      68.O@               65.7                  75.3
AURAL                             *-         *-      5O.07                24.0                 30.0
POPUATION PER PHYSICIAN         3540.B     2238.3   1973.3/d              3530.4               1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3245.IL    1786.51f  487.47a           4*29.4                 1063.5
POPULArION PER HOSPITAL BED
*                      TOTAL                         Z513.5     1949.5    642.4/.              1047.5                 477A
URIAN                         1286.9     1095.3    74.s7W                651.6                679.8
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..               2597.6               1903.4
ADIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL IED         ..       14.9        ..                 27.0                 27.3
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF NOUSENOLD
TOTAL                            5.6        5.0       4.5
MRHAo                            5.4
RURAL                            5.6
AVERAGE NUMER OF PRSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                            2.5        2.3      2.0/c
LBAN                             2.6        2.7      2. i7.-
RURAL                            2.4        2.2      2.a7                   . 
ACCESS TI ELECICITI (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                          2U.4        49.9
URUAN                           67.3       92.4
RURAL                           12.4       29.9      64.9/d



-22-                                           ARM I
Page 2 of 5
TAM 3A
m=Zr EEUULICW   SOCAL xM1CU     DTA4  s
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
mat  RXOLC Qw                X-WS |ERCESE --on
MOSTaiuu  RCENTvzn                      cImm *m  =U
960 lb   1970 lb 35Z1 /b             SI &   CC       1UZ2 ANC  A   CIXAE
EDCATION
P3IMAR3?    Th.                91.0       103.0    11.0                 96.                   105.3
WALK               99.0      106.0    112.0                 9.6                   106
EnU               1.0       105.0    IILO                  92.1                  103
Se ART:  TOM                   27.0       42.0      76.0                37.6                   43.3
MU                 3_-0       51.0      320                *1.1                   40.4
FUEALE             14.0       33.0      70.0                34.1                   41g
VOCATIONAL M06. C30  SCOART) 14.2          14.3      19.7                20.8                   33.7
U-TEACE  ATO
PaMAR?                        -58.2       56i.      48.1                35-5                   23.9
SEnDeR                         34.3       36.5      39.0                25.0                   1.7
ADUL LITE1 a RAE C(ERN           70.6       87.6      93.0                73.                    79.1
COSUPION
1358Dm35R CARS PER IUAND
POP MAXTOW                      0.5        1.9       6_2                 9.3                   43.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TIEDIC4
POPY=UxI                       31.2       12.4    6OZ.2                116.5                  270.5
TV RECEIVERS EER 201
POPULA3ION                      0.3       X3.1    150.6                 37.6                  107.7
45?APER COAXLY CEAL
INTEREST) CIROWLAIOB PER
-USAND POPIXATZIO                69.0      136.3    172.S                 53.7                   63.7
CINDIA ANNUAL ATENDE ER CAPI   4.0           5.2       2.0                 2.3                   2.7
LABOR FORCE
TO.-AL LABOR FOCE CIISAXIS)    a30:.2         .2  14637.0
FEN     C1 (PUCEr)             26.1       32.7      32.5                33.6                  24.4
A F7CU1XURE (PEXENE)           66.0        50.0     34.0                S2.2                   31.3
D1TRY (PERCENT)                 9.0       18.0  Z9.0                    17.9         Z3.
PARTICIPATIOK WE1 CPERCZXI)
TOrAL                            33.2       35.0      38.3                3835                   33.6
KALE                             49_5       66.3      St13                S0.3                   50.4
1E3AL3                           17.2       23.0      25.1                26.6                   16.8
ZC l DPE3ET 3AM                     1.4        1.3       1.0                 1.1                    1.3
INUM DISTRIlUrUT
EUlXMM OF PRIVAXE IINCO
RECEIVED B?r
:RIEST 5 PRCENT Or r0 0        15.1/b      17.1     16.1/.
KicS- 20 PEENT Ir BOUSENOIBS *2.37ii    65          45.37;i
LOWEST 20 PERC  OF BOSOL        5.77       7.1       5.77;                .
LO0EST 40 PEWC? OF 1USUMIS  19.079        17.7      16.9T.                       
POVERTY TARCET CEOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUZE 3   1   DW
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPTA)
RA                                          -.    320.0                1..7
RURAL                            .- __    270.0                        155.1                  14.1
ESrIUATED RELATIVE   sEt  IeO
LEVEL CUSS PER CITA)
URBS                             ..         ..    370.0                17.2                   518.0 
RAL                              ..         ..      10.0               164.9                  371.1
ESrTIATED POPULATON EDWV ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IcI1E LEVEL (PERCEM
URAN                             ._         __      180                 24.4
RAL                         _                       11.0                41.1
Not "avlable
Not appleb"le.
/a  Tle group averages for ech Indicator er popslation-ioShCed aritbetlc gmen_. Coerage of camtries
_on the indlcators depends on vallablity of data adI In not unifom.
lb  Umlea  othertui  noted, date for 1960 refer to any year btw..a 1959 mg 1961; for 1970b.  tg  1369
amd 1971; and for Htot Recent zuttuae,. bte. '78 aW d 19m0.
/c  1975; Id 1977; l. 1976. /f Realster.d. not alL pret<e inI ti. country;   16; /b 196_1.
sky. 1932



9---33393    9- ~1-  33-.-3  264-3.
I   Am                                                       6W3-d J.           A% 493.3     t-0.4 -       4 -" .-  -3a -3 3
333633- 13ll - 33-3-  1-                                              -_9.M3        -B26. -0   'At                       I--I
o__~~~~~~~*~1n= at_e _
103 3- _-6  we 3. -    -                           A% 4- 3 -*     -
s m, W       O. V  .        3_1    12-3-dp 3.              3-
w-.- -- 1_ -P                  6_     3 L   _-d6   13- B. 9
-   Odnp 93    Al 33-  333- 3-    9   111  31.3  J- 
_>-tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p   --o  Iti _ s _     _-3" _-           a-     _                          -3_ ...a -
-336363-       q 13-  a-3-2      W  3 .  * AM_PM -_1- .6 *1 -_WAT9 
3- _3 _3 ,.3 _- 333-  1_ -3                  I *_ 3-3.-- -
_- 3.3333   11_*.' __ _-    -0 _3- _1         _     3-    63 _.   _           _  .  3- Q-21 4-3. - INV-3       836-3
-t93933.3 9.3333 3. 3.23 .133-9             .(~ 913. 1231            29 4.-a 3.- * 1365 33-    U 1_92 .3-3- I_.Mn -.03 -  1* i
3- MP aws 3-33-33 I-I -%93.  42293  3- J. 3-333 16          . --_. A3 -'I_13 W-1W
d- -        _ S-. j.3 -I _A.w                              wT-             -1 (       _ 3; _ _-                    ...- -    .a --a  -ZZ -
V~ p---OM- casdla  ~ff  m r-     --I -    933 636333                9 la -P 3-3- 63633  313633-6-  -3-1   333314- .-
as331 61313.1   -         -3-   63-   d WM31 s33.    4fl.               -am -   -I 3- :..       .- -          ,            _
A.....d                        -am ~313.13-0(11%       .Wm 31993    -13 -3
_ 44 _ _ -   3w  *39..1133    933. 3.16333 8        W  3-                         s33 33 3- 0(01  03. Ia -1"
*61.31 A...." J.                A3.  - -  3333-193  _3 . 3-                     *- 91-  _. 32E"333 - 4                   ) 9513 2`-6*11- as1
-B 3- 6  --- d                                                                          ..as 9. _  -3                    -r  u-   34.
30."91 Sq 3-3.3. - (333  3- %-'3 9333 3-3- .3313    )363 33-%31 3- 393   11Wv - (3-3"                                         "M)9339     (~l 63) in1
3- 36 3- *.e3 _   _  _      _  _                                                                    _   _s -_t  _ g_ u _J  _ t _- 01 BU-1     -3. 3-    3-
_ Vn,-                            -1                -  -  Cl _- .3-_ 13T-  36 -_ _5 3. 6     91 63 -3 -  _3-3
V  *-J     _-a t3 P.       -        .31 _* 8- 36  --f llm3331                  -9   1--U    .M31-32    Ft-" 3-3. 193   B. 9               i*1__
33333dl333-3  -0`3 - P-"     _-. --_  _l P-            :                 V-*  3  r-s3   3. -M of v- "P .332  331 _. r 33 a-
1433-8 3..93~    139 3.33333   *6    -93  33. 9-1-                -                   -333   13 136      11 4 33-3133-  3635-3  M3 33 3233
GOT 33 3- mol 41mb1                                         J33. U0  3- 0(81  I9n. 13.3 3-"
2-3 -wI 13. 33. 3.163    3           - .13  4,1n.361.3.-                                      at33    ~ 6 9.3-33  3-j-3162 3.33132333-
-:331232W   3-13-I  9.161  813. -W23 - (3--q                            3.* **3qw-i'  w &P*  13.33   31          2933-sW ' f P- 313
---P Gm0 3-03   31333 1331131                                                 12 p3293   .333.9 -IK"  lhow23 43  -233-    3
_ -v  T @  J.       _     _ --   "" -1-a r                                                                            4  -_p- d~V-
3-    .9   613     *9.--6' "3    3 33l3   1-                                 2113W  *. .-        M  g      _ - -     9._   _ 3-53 W 3   .3_
ftM6 333  323 3 dW3233 633.    W%33  =1        -                           33*33 ~  3-6A- 1-  M-12   -  P363 333  3-M.63*-9- an      33.UM13
63-  -1  - U! *33 11333C6311- mo                   - 1 3- *9-- 1     J.~1  .333-".O 31     9'(PT.-   -9 136
1339     __ '3-1.-1 8.33.13- 3- 3*4313.   3- 3-3- 3-~                -      -.31 3*31) 3-9~  -W- v- 3163 3- 33    41  ;. 3.3-
~333.1S *W3- 3.13- 433__W.3 -_ _99-WI) .214                        _11 _            -*   6   -   .6(31I ..   33. 1322Ia  23   -.    3.93r- 13- 
=~~~~~~~~~- X _ _3                                               4 - 3.3 91a --39- 3_ .331  8 13-3-V    3333 
P  -qv-P-3   v            *- v-      -a    V- 3-       _      - (2W  3. -1-9-1
-4- ""aD n_ Wft W --fl _5 asm_ -ATI" -l~t
".2   -                      V..-W  .W ..333833-3-   ~       6      13*        4..4    313W~33   3                  -396
r. W  _- _s- -     - 13                        -1  _1  n      )        1s _1 . 3-                           _                             M. WI - (Riin-i 6  3-  - r    3
=lo33AL3J.  3-P-. m-.. _- - 3V .I- .J-3- l -*_                                                                           3n.3  n I_-
-63w 3- 3-WI -(33333333 6-3 93 3.63                                -Mt V-9.3   3    13.33 9-3.33.93 ll9   -    -ft1-   -W-;13 3 -  :-.69339   A. 6
1333531 ~13. 4 3. 333-3313   W5 -3301 ~      3-369 1                   633-3.33--4- 3                 -W31 A 3..-'-)36-33I
39 *-3*s_          -W   64 a PM          3- I  -           _ S              3-     _. _ s W   1333-   r3- -6  _11w              -  t--   '12ru
..Fn    T     J.  -~w3-U   33...3 3-  ...P-.%l 3.3-                                                .-.     -jLi-:W   u1
- 3    ... va3 -9 --  TM. 63 _       __5  3- 1- S.-M -m.3 2391.3. 3V--" *-                                   3 33.-
_ _   _3.1233W 3.  6-   3-_ :3136 3 W _1  33.33                                _q2                                    3 a- _    _ _ [-J -6 m_   _-233
.3613-3343.21113                                          1-   3-1 -   3(01 -1  1323          6 _  -
3-_t23.3    --A         3- 163l    3-3lW  3- -          -  63                       . 6-      -w 39)11 .   11W - (6-3_1 -_T :-33 n-1
i-n-p-  1W 9- -TV"   6 _- 6-3           _3--     3   _-                                                         --P _(  3   6 P- GMT 1 3-    323
op-n 2.0-mum               -W3-3. 3.&M  S.            1        P- -nv  _92 PM-  "W 3S      3
_ _ __ _t, _ . , _t R. _ _ qnz _1   -  933 *6,3(3  -)   313                                                        3-
_wa.4 v~   1-  _ ~    s-                                      -_so -Esg           '4--   *_W..o   _           -   a_ -_T1 q
.  1 6t 3a--66.9  333393W39. 33 3   .                      9 g~ - ~   W   W -n.3  33  3  33 w-3   1      -9.3-P ..916 v-    913.3   3336Al-
49323  -3313  933)313-S-  A333 -  S3. 313-) .3.  -1.1 - 2l33-tl-2t-                      -    .v       .M3 .3-1 3-  1-s9  -  -1   -M23
-poe" 03-ft  "W --A-  mm.~         13)m  Imf3    3-3-            -  -33                           ---.33236 - GM 3-9 -4 ) Mal93  3-ft   T 323-
B_  _ s I.  _93-                                                                     Mo- 3 3r-_     W- a-""  *   -     -"-M1  - 4-4-w  --a
At-661  aa8   _ 9     -n-q. W3   a. -3            1 2--t a.- 6- *r_ -.- _                                                               6 t33. 1
n-a-u   _Ml P--f _pt            W :     w  r __*-R_-a> -e- - _ _a-z
-W  1-32W                                                  1 -    aa _    *                      -     -t  3-_   21-P6       Sl . 13 _M.91-
_333~ a v-3 a- _-n- 1                      6           _ _ s                                                     -A-  3-3 _--2d3 11
Mo'36 3   I  I13 A6W&  S.      M   -lo  -S6  36W  313.9333.0W 3--3W                                  .    -   3- 33639333. I66 6-2323 3-3
J. 133   3                    A33-    SW - -ft t            3--62                         W       4133v- 3   3   3Dw  -P  -   -  -. M-    3-s6a-
-_~~~~~~~~~~~M                                     r             J--t_  o3 D-V  -M-*r Fd " _A-z
3.313--MW  _W1   3         `I_b p-3   3 _                                              9        - _3 .-33                      _    3   3-
__5 3-  33. 33333  WI - _13-S 3- 933. 133- -  WI  WI'.                     62339    A.                       P- r 1-11- 633-6 W3   6- -    
Of5t.01     p  -M    -n iJ       -3131-  3-3336--"  ---a                 33-W     W  3- 43        3
la   M-4.m-ra- - ~twativ    ... dw-A.-4.-0          . M     s    -0-    28t.         .-s %         -.* _q-"     A-3--   Ml 3 ._
__.3- 33 33-   ~21l 3. *1233.333333933---3                         _W-3-   -_ J. _.3                          1 A _ M-1  -31 _3-5 _ 3-  1-
- 133.' 3- 3-9.. dl9    (M- 40N            93) AV 3122.33 33  3                    A3132- 3- 9X6-3--V _3J.391                24_21391  --
P-od- 1-                  -V3-3.                       -     ..333.%  -  ..I1W WI41...-338 6                    3631
mism~ ~ ~    ~         ~        ~         ~       ~           _ -       a--.-w-iL -!*!- L -.-qI'
.I V  16-T 3 .36W A   33A-93-t    WMW v31 93-t- "a A.P 33-                       "W2 93 3-3  93 9-1.3(966      Am 93 I    9-3-  :--  91  123-33n
_113-6                   _           -6  -   _-                  v _-            -  -
W63- 3-33332316 m.13                        -am1l il3-M3- W           -3    (3   9    936
~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  _-1   W -mia  ts- _ I-a -n s-m  -    g                                    _    t     l vom         9-  M      -*ft saa me          -.I-B"EI
-     9.~y  ~   3-           -"t--  3. o-*  3.           3P- V                   3-3-33-6 393- 63> 33W- 3o.- l   - 3333- _ .1.3-3 2--m     -36u
- O _   _     _m 1-     A.  ~ M-Malt  -Ps-m v3 _                              _-.  3-           -(        r        _
A-m  3- . -"- W         3- Ala- " -                                                                                                         3213 ol!m-   oMM   t    f p~-Pt- - -A
4   33- 3      433  W33amllo-e-f 3-333-3 -po 31.05    66-                 8583 -.."3-1  33- 181-   13333- 35-   " in 3.-3191(31
*333233M.3 333-3.j3363236   3_36 laa-     1_331  12sts-l                          M . 3     -          a1 - -   ..PM" _.13m
-w m   23.13.9  3.3rs- 6- (-            0    MWIE-  2M-                       At....         ts. -  133=6----s 333-33- 13(
64   = JW                     BM9.33   As33                                  W"133--  8   149-  v-Ws3 v-     Von- 6a-- W             4t6f 3.2333
3.6=6~~4 31     6-33333  _3333   36    _-3133                    '    3-(13133              3  =3   W19 3- 1-_   936  _--.62 23
3-3      _      _     _      _     __3 3 -   .-  333333336_                                 43323sW1993.333363 3.6393_133  -                 x_
613-)  -2333- - 33-  3- 3333  3W    3-PM  v       33-                                                                (3.R  v-33
-86W  393.6 3-6      ,P31W  3-623    6.33me  3
4   33993-9AIM m.13               43     lM-    3.-    -MMM.'Slt 6-3-  6-3a- .S-  3-3- 3   .69                        3-  -3333
Amlr3313333=-3- 93    ft  633--m "  2I "35-  3j. 3W  3t-   3W                3933 -M33W-M 3 913-                    n -61     3- 33 An
A-_ --P v---0                     -                          _.0                                 f          -  _1  _Cn j T.R. 1-a
W 43-W  3- 3-3133                     0-3         W1- 12c V- 3                    -      3-P                        111
3W33 333-6- 33.-W93W --9333-913-MW 611339.  3.- .,- _2 118   ,3.1-.. 3.33363-23 3 -
3-33_d_,am_- '3-W                l      a                    All 91-  330-462               1043-3-116W   W"       3 - _)q  6-         t-
e       33-13   Am   3-9 Pm.36  -v9.-6- 3-33133                        3W       .323-31"3 33    33933-  3.- - .3                  -6    --3-
l~~_o z  1_ a_t                              -C_._Z    _**
13mm~~~~~~~~~~~3333 3133
 ~~P - 'O____ W___L_qB -   = - 
i:~s-- f-  D__    las s*_sEwxsD



AID1EX I
Poplatiton: 39,331 (ndd-1982. thsandf)                            24                                        Page 4 of 5
Gcn Per Capita: U5S1.679 (1982)
MoUan-E E    INDI
mont
(minion US$ at                   ANual gmowth rates (S) at eontat pries
current prices)                         ActuL                                jected
Icdicator                              1982 /a          1978      1979     1980     1981      198219
NATICNAL ACCOMS
Gross doestic product                68.418            11.3      7.1     -3.5      7.1       5.3          7.5      7.5
Agriculture                        11,185            -4.0      6.7    -22.0      22.0      3.8          4.0      4.0
Industry                           26,747           20.8       8.4     -0.1      5.3       6.1          8.0      8.5
Services                           30.486            11.0      6.0     -2.4       3.6      4.8          8.8      8.0
Consumption                          51.487            11.0      7.4     -1.0      3.7       3.6          7.5      6.7
Gross Investment                     17.514           35.9      17.5    -24.4      5.0       0.1          8.0      7.5
Exports of GEFS                      26.S75            17.5    -3.6       9.9      17.2      6.6          8.8      9.5
Imports of GNFS                      27.215           29.1       8.6     -7.7      8.5      -0.1          8.9      8.6
Gross national savings               14.531            14.1      3.7    -17.7      3.0      1B.2         13.4      9.4
PRICES
GDP defLator (1975 - 100)                             164.6    197.4    246.7    286.2    309.1         319.0    464.1
Exchange rate CUS(l -)                                484.0    484.0    607.6    681.0    731.1
Export price index (1975 - 100)                       135.4    161.8    170.3    176.5    167.1         164.3    238.7
Import price index (1975 - 100)                       105.8    129.2    163.9    171.7    158.4         157.0    233.3
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                    IZ8.0    125.2    103.9    101.6    105.5          104.6    102.3
Share of GDP at market prces CZ)                Average annual incrae (Z)
(at rrt prices)                              (at costant   ce)
1960   1970   19751*80    1985   1990    l960-70  1970-75  l975-80  1980-85  l985-90
Gross dostic product          100.0  100.0  1W.O  100.0  100.0  100.0          8.6      9.8      8.2       7.0      7.5
Agriculture                  36.7   26.9   24.5   16.5   15.9   12.4         4.3      4.9    -1.2        7.3      4.0
Industry                    20.1   29.5   33.8   41.3   44.4   49.2         17.4     15.3      13.5      8.5      8.4
Services                    43.2   43.6   *1.7   42.3   39.7   38.3          8.1      7.7      7.6       6.7      7.7
Conwamption                 85.3   83.0   80.1   76.4   65.7   58.1          6.7      7.8      7.1       5.7      7.0
Gross investment             11.0   26.9   29.0   30.Z   33.2   33.8        23.6     11.2      14.6      6.0      7.5
Exports of GCFS              3.4   14.3   27.6   35.7   43.7   49.6         29.3     25.4      16.1      9.8      9.5
Imports of GNFS             12.8   24.1   36.3   42.7   42.6   43.9         20.2     15.8     17.0       6.8      8.9
Gross national savings       8.0   19.5   20.6   21.7    -         -        17.2     14.6      9.0      12.7      9.2
As 2 of CDP                 Labor Force in 1980         Nllions   (S)
1960     1970     197S      1980
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                 Agriculture                 4.7     32.2
Current revenes                     18.5     17.8      17.9     19.9        lInustry                     3.9     27.1
Current expenditures                14.3     13.1      15.4     15.6         Services                    5.1     35.5
Current surplus                      4.2      4.7      2.5       4.3         Unemployed                  0.7      5.2
Capital expenditure                  3.4      6.4      6.4       5.9
Foreign financing                      .      1.0       1.3      1.0            Total Labor Force       14.5    100.0
1960-70       1970-75         1975-80         19B0-85         1985-90
0THE INDICATMRS
Annual GNP growtb rate (S)                          8.7            9.0            7.9             7.0             7.6
Ann lll GN per capita grovth rate (Z)               5.9            6.9             5.2            5.5             6.1
Annual energy conmptlon growtb rate (1)            14.2            9.6            8.7             5.7             6.0
ICWR                                                1.9            2.7            5.4             4.2             4.2
Narginl savings rate                                0.3            0.3            0.3             0.3             0.3
Import elasticity                                   2.2            1.6            2.0             1.2             1.2
la Prelimnary.
East Asia ad Pacific Regional Office
September 1983



ANnU I
-25-                                       ra    5 of 5
Population:  39,331 (mId-1982. tbou-sads)
CUP Per Capita: USS1.679 (1982)
ogA- BALAUCE OF PAXNTS. EUWLM. ChM. AND DUS
C(mlion US$S at current prices)
Indicator                                                           ActualPr
1970    1975    1978   1919    19EO   1lYS    lIWja    19S3r i8r
RALANCE OF PAT_17
atporte of goads and services            1.379   5.909  17,124  19,523  22,587  27.552  28.500    31,230  70,972
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.             882   5.028  12,678  14,694  17,z20  20,938  20.961    23,037  52,145
_              Iomports of goods ad servlces             2,180   7.992  18.651 24.115  28.360  32.476  31.500    33.860  74,003
of which: merchandise f.o.b.           1.804   6.671  14,436  19,266  21.601  24.337  23.361    25.424  58,616
Set transfers                              178     225      467     '39    *49      506     473       500      500
Currant accout balance                    -623 -1 858  -1 060  -4 153 -S 325 -4 418  -2 546    -2 130 -2 531
(I of GP)      --71.Z)  (-9.2)  (-2.) tJ-7T    - 9 .3))  C-3.)    t8) tfK)
Direct investment                           66      53       f1      17      -5      59     100        150     250
mx loans (net)                             242   1.252   2.216   2.945   2.096   4.267   2.051      2.452   2,294
vfficil                                  147     486     663    852  - 689   1.337        880       800     635
Private                                   95     765   1.552   2.093   1,403   2.929   1.171      1.652   1.659
Other capital (incl. errors 4 oissious)   372      929    -510   2.090   3.770      367     484         -   1.643
Chae In reserves                           -57    -376   -707   -898    -536    -275        -98      -47  -1,657
International reserves (gross)             606   2.012   5 405   6,303   6.839   7.11    7.212      7,683  14,387
Reserves as moths Imports                  3.3     3.0      3.5     3.1     2.9     2.6     2.7       2.7     2.3
ErYERSAL CAPITAL AND DENT
Cross disbursements
Official grants                            -               -        -       -              s0
Concessional loans                       123     123      184     193     138     159     148
DAC                                    12Z      1W5    WI6     1iT3     121    fl      1R;
OPEC                                     -       -       13      20      17       1       -
IDA                                      1      16       3       -        -       -       _
Other                                    -       1       -        -       -       -       -
Non-concessionsl loans                   317  1,511   3.729   4 4     3.655  A27h   3 937
Official export credits                 18          151   219   341     608     841      3
IBRD                                     7     187     321    426       254     306     438
Other nuLtilateral                       5      87      89       91      90     104     116
Private                                287   1.083   3W10   3.591   2.705   3.525   2.851
Medium- and Lbs-TernL Debt
Debt outstanding and dsbursed         1.797   5.540  11,9?7  14,553  16,276  19.964  22.006
Official                               613   2.657   5.016   5,667   6.498   7.702   8.572
Private                              1.185   2.883   6.921   S.886   9.776  12.263  13.433
undisbursed                              902   1.679   6.294   5,337  7.07Z   5.996   5.324
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                   268     667   1,825   2.578   2,762   3.597  -4.199
Interest                               70     283     657     890   1.310   1.777  -2.164
Paymenta as : exports                   19.4    11.3    10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5
Short-Tern Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           ...   2.409   3,575   6,279  10,047  13.658  14,100
Interest paymaets                        ...     ...     236     377      907   1.810   1.52S
Interest as S exports                    ...     ...      1.6     1.9     4.0     6.7     5.3
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (Z)
Official                                 4.5     7.9      7.4     7.6     7.5     8.4     8.0
a                  Private                                  7.1     9.3      9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                                28.0    19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5
Private                                 10.9     5.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1      8.1
As Z of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outetanding
Maturities cue within  5 years                         61
Maturities due within 10 years                        103
interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due withia first year                          9
/s Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
September 1983



ARE  II
- 26 -                                Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP oPERAIIONS IN THE REPUBLIC oF XORE& /a
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                                         Amount ($ wiflion)
Credit      Calendar                                                           (les  cancellations)
Number        Year        Borrower           Purpose                       BDank   ;T    IDA   Undlsbursed
Thirty-seven loans and eight credits fully disbursed                     1.969.01  40.0  106.81
1319         1976   ADC                    Irrigation                      29.0                       5.36
1364         1977   ADC                    Irrigation                      95.0                      22.28
1401         1977    Republic of Korea    Ports 1I                         67.0                       9.34
1474         1977   Republic of Korea    Vocational Training               23.0                       0.53
1503         1978   ADC                    Agriculture/Irrigation          36.0                      18.40
1530         1978   Republic of Korea      Rural Infrastructure I1         95.0                      14.31
1640         1978    Republic of Korea    Highways IV                     143.0                      13.80
1666         1979    Republic of Korea    Chungju Multipurpose            125.0                      48.22
1676         1979    Republic of Korea    Electronics Technology           29.0                      10.89
1749         1979    SKID III              Dev. Finance Co.                60.0                       0.14
1758         1979    Republic of Korea    Second Gwangju Regional          65.0                      44.37
1774         1979    Republic of Korea    Population I                     30.0                      28.53
1788         1979    Korea Electric Co.   Power                           115.0                      39.00
1800         1980   Republic of Korea    Education V                      100.0                      50.44
1829         1980    CNB I                 Dev. Finance Co.                30.0                       2.93
1836         1980    Republic of Ker*a    Railway VI1                      94.0                      10.21
1851         1980   AFDC                   Agriculture II                  50.0                      19.50
1932         1981    KLTCB VIII            Div. Finance Co.                90.0                      32.06
1933         1981    RDB IV                Div. Finance Co.               100.0                       9.20
1974         1981    Republic of Korea    Third Agriculture Credit         50.0                      23.34
1980         1981    Republic of Korea    Nat. Urban Land & Housing        90.0                      74.48
2004         1981    SMIB IV               Dev. Finance Co.                60.0                      45.36
2072         1982    Republic of Korea    Water Supply                     90.0                      79.86
2111         1982   Republic of Korea    Agricultural Marketing            50.0                      42.53
2112         1982    KTDC                  Technology Development          50.0                      42.88
2144         1982    CNB                   DFC                             30.0                      29.83
2215*        1982    Republic of Korea    Machinery Industry               70.0                      70.00
2216**       1982    Republic of Korea    Nat. Urban Land and Housing    100.0                      100.00
2228         1982    Republic of Korea    Provincial and County Roads    125.0                      125.00
Total                                                      4,060.01  40.0  106.81   1,012.80
of which has been repaid                                   433.59   0.7    4.34
Total now outstanding                                      3,626.42  39.3  102.47
Amount sold                   8.83
of which bas been repaid    8.83                             -      -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                           3,626.42  39.3  102.47
Total undisbursed                                          1,012.80  -        -      1.012.80
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30th and
October 31st.
* Declared effective on 05/Z6/83.
** Declared effective on 05/31/83.



ANNEX II
-27 -                     Page 2 of 2 pages
B. Statement of IFC Inveutments (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amot ($ slllion)
Year     Obligor               Tpes of Business          Loan  quity Total
1968   RDFC                     Development Finncing       -     0.7   0.7
1969   Honr  Sillk Co.          Textiles                   1.4   0.3   1.7
1970   Atlas Paper              Pulp and paper             4.5   0.5   5.0!a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development  -     0.7   0.7
1974   KDFC                     Development Financing      -     0.4   0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finace Corp.          Capital Narket Development  -     0.3   0.3
1975   Gold Star s Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products        16.0   1.3  17.3
1975   Korea Se:urities
Finance _orp.         Capital Market Development 5.0   0.6   5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers           6.9   2.1   9.0
1975   Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.    Tourim                     2.8   0.7   3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development  -    0.4   0.4
1976   Chonju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                       5.0   0.5   5.5
1976   Korea ZinC. Co., Ltd.   Zinc                       15.0   4.0  19.0
1976   RDFC                    Development Financing      17.8    -   17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products        10.0   0.4  10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products         -    0.2   0.2
1977   RDFC                    Development Financing       -    0.3   0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market              -     0.5   0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market            15.0   0.4  15.4
1978   KDFC                    Development Financing       -    1.1   1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products         -    1.7   1.7
1979   KIFC                     Capital Market             -     0.6   0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                     -    0.2   0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products         -    1.5   1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.   Electronic Products         -    1.8   1.8
1920   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market              -     0.6   0.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Fiuance Corp.                                     -     1.1   1.1
1980   KDFC                    Development Financin        -     2.2   2.2
1981  Taihan Bulk Terminal     Grain Port Terminal         7.0   2.5   9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982  KIFC                     Capital Market              -     0.6   0.6
1982  K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancesent Corp.)     Research & Development      -     0.7   0.7
Total gross commitment                           106.4  28.9  135.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                             80.3   4.0  84.3
Total commitsents now held by IFC                 26.1  24.9  51.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                   -     0.7   0.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 28-                          ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country
to prepare the project                  : 18 months
(b)  Project preparation agency              : ISWACO
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank,
and Bank consideration thereof          : October 1982
Cd)  Date of departure of appraisal mission  : April 25, 1983
se) Date of completion of negotiations       : September 10, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness            : December 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bids were received from prequalified contractors on August 10, 1983.
Evaluated bids reduced the project cost and proposed loan amount by 36Z.
The contract was awarded on September 10, 1983. The Bank has made clear
that advance contracting was taken at government risk and that Bank
financing is contingent on the Board's approval of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of effectiveness is:
(i) signing of subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and ISWACO (para. 40).
(b) The Korean Government would ensure that:
(i)  Busan city would implement the specified water and sewerage
works not later than December 31, 1987 (para. 34); and
(ii)  ISWACO would establish, not later than December 3], 1984,
an Environmental Management Section for future projects
(para. 37);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii) the water made available by the barrage would be charged
at the average long-term marginal cost (para. 43);
(iv) ISUACO's Water and Dam Divisions would adjust the prices
charged for water and other services, as to obtain a rate of
return, on revalued fixed assets in operation, of not less
than 4% in 1984 and 1985 and 52 thereafter (para. 42);
(v) ISWACO would implement all environmental conditions suggested
by OOE (para. 49);
(vi) OOE and MOC would take statutory measures to protect a defined
part of the estuary (para. 49); and
(vii) a program for maintenance and inspection of the barrage would
be completed before December 31, 1986 (para. 44).



DEM. PEOPLE'5                                                                     1200'                                                    oSou   20
REP. Of         T                                                                2'      ro00mr  eu    2"5
-2KOREA                                                           MUET~ M                                                        0 ogup
DECGSANN        ~                \
FE           S~~EOMEOSA
Mao                           ~~~~~~~-35915'31
-River Basin BoujndarWsJuGJO



i                                                                                               Bus NJI \BOM
v    sv   N    /   0                         ?              ~~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
OID 9'                                                               WACHp NSECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
\  I   t          A                  ~~~NAGOONG ESTUARY BARRAGE
( > rf - lKl~~~~~~~~~~agdong Estuary Barrage
Di                                                usS *   I  r   f  Land ReclattonArea
S5o U  t h       S e o                    \ (WIE   *M A  H A                                    ,CIT
f ,fq                                 E1~~~~~~~~ 0   Treatment Plants
g>>2                                 @      ~~~~~~~~~~~~@ Pumping Stations
tJ                                  --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Expres.ways (toll)
//)                               ~~~~~- Main Roads
Klim*ws   <                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.-*.  Railwnys
0      1     2      334          S                                                               - Water Mains
N Pumping Stations
n1a mi U zPttc~ bedd4#X*rd piv.dt *l~ ~*&~a~.*u a~ju  ~  9~                                             Water Treatment Plants
Pewe. C0irON~  h m~71 rw~d db n ^d uiM  sazio M N                                                       lBuilt-up Areas                                I
Provincial Bound aries
) 2                                                                                        Woter1 Main 6s5 
Iey . ~ Iav -r . n~. -e*oea.mmI -  .or~~ , l , e i a.  .,-_ . , .                .     ,.      . Go (county) Boundories
ft 4w Son of A                                               I2yo W vmwmwo wAw  ff0Om&$              roica   Budre



