Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8675
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2350-KO
MAY 25, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALnTS
Currency unit     - Won (W)
US$1.00           - V 780 (September 1983)
- V 806 (1984 average)
- V 870 (1985 average)
- V 881 (1986 average)
- W 823 (1987 average)
- V 720 (1988 average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                            -     3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                       -     0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)             -     0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)                         -     10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres
cubic meter (cu m)                   -     264 U.S. gallons
cubic meter per second (cu m/s)            22.82 million U.S. gallons per day
Gigawatt hour (GWh)                  -     1 million kilowatt hours
liter (1)                            -     0.26 U.S. gallons
liters per capita per day (lpcd)    -      0.26 U.S. gallons per capita per day
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
EIA         -     Environmental Impact Assessment
ISWACO      -     Industrial Sites and Water Resources Corporation
KOWACO      -    Korea Water Resources Corporation
hOC         -     Ministry of Construction
MOHA        -    Ministry of Home Affairs
NEPA        -     National Environment Preservation Area
NESPA       -     National Ecological System Protection Area
NWIP        -     National Water Improvement Program
OOE         -     Office of the Environment (in the Ministry of Health
and Social Affairs)
PCR         -     Project Completion Report



THE WORLD SANK                vOR OMCIAL US ONLY
Washngton. DC 20433
U.S A
06g.* MW Oiu'.sCa.mei
0Xwsu i 0ki4
May 25, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Korea
Second Water Supply Project (Loan 2350-KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Korea - Second Water Supply Project (Loan 2350-KO)" prepared
b. the Asia Regional Office with 'art II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
of thi ofii duties. Its coants may not otherwe be discised wnthout Wold Bank auutadibn.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2350-XO0
PlaWECT CMPLEION REPOT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaS2 Ng,
Preface      .   .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .i
PART I.   BANK REVIEW OF THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity .1
Background .1
Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
Implementation.                                             4
Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
Sustainability.                                             6
Bank Performance.                                           7
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
Project Relationships   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . .          8
PART II.  BORROWER REVIEW OF THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . .         10
Project Identification and Preparation  . . . . . .        10
Implementation .12
Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        18
Institutional Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .         18
Project Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         19
Tables
IT-1  Main Features of the Nakdong Barrage  . . .          20
11-2  Main Features of the Drainage Facilities             22
11-3  Project Execution Schedule                           24
11-4  Land Acquisition and Compensation  . . . . .         25
11-5  Summary of the Project Cost   ..26
II-6 Annual Project Cost   ..27
II-7  Annual Disbursement of the Loan                      28
11-8  Reallocation of the Loan   . . . . . . . . .         29
II-9  Demand for Municipal and Industrial Water  .         30
II-10 Forecasting of the Water Demand  . . . . . .         31
II-11 Summary of the Estimated Land Sales  . . . .         33
11-12 KOWACO Financial Statements (1983-88)  . . .         34
11-13 KOWACO Revenues and Expenses (1983-88)               35
KMs
II-1  Nakdong River Basin Area  . . . . . . . . .          36
II-2  Project Layout  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          37
11-3  Designation of the NEPA  . . . . . . . . . .         38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recip!ints only in the perfonrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorkation.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . .           39
2.  Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . .           40
3.  Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . .           42
4.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . .          43
5.   Project Costs and Financing    . . . . . . . .          45
6.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          46
7.   Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . .          50
8.  Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . .           52



- I-
SECONID WATER $UPPLY PROJECT (LOAN 2350-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Korea Second
Water Supply Project (Nakdong Barrage), for which Loan 2350-KO in the amount of
US$78.5 million was approved on October 18, 1983. The loan was closed on June
30, 1989 as planned. Due to savings resulting from a decrease in the exchange
rate of the won (from 780 per US dollar in 1983 to about 880 by 1986), better
self-financing capacity of the implementing agency and lower than expected bids
for equipment and consultant services, only about 65% of the original loan was
disbursed and US$27.2 million of the loan amount was cancelled in stages
throughout the project period. The last disbursement was on March 23, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
XII), and the Korea Water Resources Corporation, the main implementing agency
(Part II). Part II discusses the barrage construction component (comprising 98%
of the total project cost of US$217.7 million). Leak detection and institutional
development programs implemented under the project by the Ministry of Home
Affairs (2% of the project cost) are covered only in Part I.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's project
supervision mission in February 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



~~~~~L  -
SECOND WATER    P PRJC        (LN 2350-KO)
PROJECT COMPEION REOR
EyaluatioM SuMaW=
i.         Objectiyes.  In line with government objectives under the Fifth
Development Plan (1982-86), the project was intended to improve the quality and
avallabillty of water supply in the important Nakdong River Basin, which
contalned one third of the country' s total population. Water shortages had become
a crltlcal problem basin-wlde. Purthermore, despite the construction of dams to
even out river dlscharges through the year, increasing demands on the river had
decreased the flow of fresh water in the river's delta, resultLag in increased
sea water lntrusion into the river and hLgh salinity as far as 40 km upstream.
The salinity seriou6ly affected the water intake at Pusan, the second largest
city in Korea, and required flushing of the delta area with river water, which
was urgently needed for agricultural purposes and for some 40 upstream
municipalities and large cities.
iL.         The project was deslgned to: (a) el'minate sea water intrusion in
the Nakdong delta through constructlon of a 510 m barrage; (b) make available
to Pusan and the nelghboring area about 25 cu m/s of water formerly released from
upstream dams to prevent seawater intruslon lnto the river; (c) implement an
improved leak detectlon and control program in some 15 cities; (d) computerize
accounting and management information systems ln about 15 Water Bureaus; (e)
encourage improved flnancial and water pricing policies in the Korea Water
Resources Development Corporation (KOWACO),1 the main implementlng agency,
through loan conditionality; and (f) protect the Nakdong's estuarine environmnt
and develop KOWACO's environmental management expertise. Pusan, wilch would
receive about half the water made available by the barrage, also agreed to use
lts own resources as well as bilateral and commercial financlng to expand its
water supply system and construct an interceptor sewer/water treatment plant to
divert industrial/domestic wastes to downstream of the barrage, preventLig
contaminatlon of the barrage reservoLr whlch is located downstream of the city's
water intakes.
iLi.        Imnlementation Excerience.  The project was completed on time,
successfully achLeving or surpasslng all of lts objectives. The barrage was
commLssLoned ahead of schedule in September 1987, a record time (four years) for
construction of a major and complex hydraulic structure. The lnstitutional and
leakage control programs surpassed their targets, and the complementary Pusan
waterworks were also completed ahead of schedule. Sale of reclaimed land will
be completed in 1990, and will be sold fully developed (rather than undeveloped
as originally planned). Establishment of a Natural Environment Preservation Area
(NEPA) to protect an important migratory bird habitat In the Nakdong estuary was
a major achlivement of the project. Gainlng approval of the REPA was difficult,
due to unforeseen objections raised by Pusan City, the time needed to complete
'Then called the Industrial Sites and Water Resources Corporation.



- iii -
required studies and the lengthy process of gaining the required approvals of
ten ministries or government/city agencies. Although approval of the NEPA was
postponed for three years, until December 31, 1988, moratoria on development and
construction during this period provided the area wlth the same environmental
protection as the NEPA. An interceptor sewer to be constructed by Pusan City
parallel to the barrage was not included in project financing. When the City
encountered serious financial problems due to the accelerated construction of
a subway, construction of the interceptor was delayed three years but will be
completed in 1990. To compensate for the lack of the interceptor, the operation
of the barrage was modified to provide additional flushing during low tides. As
originally planned, the loan was closed on June 30, 1989.
iv.         Results. All project benefits were achieved. Water sallnity in the
lower reaches of the river was eliminated, and the water available for municipal,
industrial and agricultural use has increased as planned. Without the barrage,
water would have had to be rationed in 1988-89. The computerized accounting,
billing and management informatiorn system has been successfully adopted by almost
four times as many Water Bureaus (WBs) as planned. The leak detection program
transferred this techuaology to the WBs and local consultants and provided
training, manuals and improved specifications for pipelinies and house
connections. These benefits were also extended to more cities than forecasted,
and the creation and equipping of leak detection units ensured that the benefits
would continue. KOWACO's financial performance, although generally satisfactory,
deteriorated in 1988, when one of the worst droughts of the century reduced water
flows and thus power sales, causing the rate of return on KOWACO's water and dams
operations to decllne to 2-3%, rather than the 5% covenanted under the Loan
Agreement. However, rates of return are expected to be satisfactory by the early
1990s, as water flows (and power sales) return to normal levels. The project
was particularly important as a vehicle for environmental action. As agreed
under the loan, a 34.2 sq km area of mud flats, islands and wetlands in the
Nakdong estuary was declared a NEPA by MOC and a Natural Ecological System
Preservation Area (NESPA) by the Office of the Environment, thus giving it
maximum legal protection from development and creating a precedent for the
protection of other key environmental resources in Korea. Other environmental
control measures are also being enforced in the area surrounding the NEPA to
further protect the bird habitat.  At completion, the project cost was about
US$218 million, 31% higher than expected due mainly to the inclusion of
additional works, the decision to develop the reclaimed land rather than selling
it undeveloped, and increased land compensation costs. Even with the increase
in project cost, the rate of return on the project was very high (20%) and
similar to the original aprraisal estimate of 24%.
v.          SustainabilitX. The project's achievements are expected to be fully
sustainable. barrage inspection and maintenance manuals prepared under the
project should ensure optimal operation of the facility. The permanent leak
detection units created in the WBs as well as the Environmental Unit and the
Environmental Research Division established in KOWACO to monitor the quality of
Nakdong water ensure that efforts to reduce leakage and to protect the
environment will continue in the future. Leakage control and environmental
protection activities will also be expanded nationwide during 1990-95 by a
National Water Improvement Program (NWIP), which will expand the leak detection
efforts to all cities, replace about 27,500 km of corroded/leaking pipes,



- iv -
modernize/rehabilitate 20% of the country's water treatment plants, relocate
about 550 industries nationwide before 1992 and significantly expand sewage
treatment works. The improvement in KOWACO' s financial perfcormance achieved under
the project, partly through increased water tariffs, should benefit from the 30%
increase in water tariffs during 1990-92 approved by the President in conjunction
with the NWIP. Because of KOIACO's institutional success, the Government may give
KOWACO overall responsibility for management of water quantity, quality and
sewage treatment on tbe main rivers, including the Nakdong. This should help
to further improve environmental conditions throughout entire basin areas.
vi.         Findings  and  Lessons  Learned.    KOWACO's  excellent  technical
capabilities and experience allowed it to complete construction of the large and
complex hydraulic structure in record time (less than four years). And, although
the project's environmental targets were probably too ambitious -- minimizing
the environmental damage from barrage construction and, more ambitiously,
ensuring full ecological protection to the bird habitat in the Nakdong estuary -
- they were nonetheless successfully achieved. The lessons learned under the
project were: (a) the advanced state of project preparation and the procurement
of project civil works under a single contract greatly reduced the cost of the
barrage (to about 60% of the initial engineering estimate), simplified project
implemertation and shortened the construction period; (b) environmental
protection requiring changes in laws or regulations is difficult and requires
a long lead time to gain consensus on issues that affect a number of government
agencies with varying interests and objectives; (c) technology transfer,
particularly for accounting and leak detection, can be carried out successfully
in a large number of cities at minimum cost; and (d) loan covenants which are
realistic and achievable result in compliance.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2350-KO)
PART I: Bank Review of the Project
Project Identity
- Project Name:   Second Water Supply Project (Nakdong Barrage)
- Loan Number:    2350-KO
- RVP Unit:       Asia
- Country:        Korea
- Sector:         Water Supply and Sewerage
- Subsector:      Water Supply/Environmental Protection
Backgon
1.          Under its Fifth Development Plan (1982-86), the Government of Korea
proposed to almost triple investment in the water supply and sewerage sector
compared to the Fourth Plan.  Its goals were to preserve water quality, replace
obsolete equipment and pipelines, invest in sewerage and sewage treatment, and
expand the capacity and coverage of the country's water supply systems. The Plan
also acknowledged the need to address the environmental deterioration that had
accompanied the country's accelerated industrial and urban growth.
2.          The Second Water Supply Project reflected these goals as it was
designed to improve the quality and availability of water supply in the Nakdong
River Basin which contained one third of the entire population, producing 30%
of total agricultural and 40% of industrial output.  Both Pusan and Daegu,
Korea' s second and third largest cities, are served by the Nakdong. At the time,
water shortages had become a critical problem in the river basin, where about
two thirds of total annual rainfall occurs from July to September. Although a
major dam had been constructed 340 km from the river mouth to even out river
discharges through the year, the increasing demand on the river from the 37
municipalities it served decreased the flow of fresh. water in the river b delta,
particularly from January to June. As a result, sea water intruded almost 40
km upstream, causing high salinity levels at the intakes for Pusan and
Ulsan/Onsan, which frequently had to stop pumping, and damaging the land in the
important Gimhae agricultural polder area, due to irrigation with the highly
saline water.
3.          Bank support for construction of the barrage and further development
of sector institutions, as provided under Loan 2350-KO, was fully in agreement
with Bank's sector objectives in Korea of promoting reliable, affordable water
and sanitation services, helping to strengthen sector institutions and their
coordination, and developing the sector's financial basis. This was the second
project in the water supply sector. The First Water Supply Project (Loan 2072-
KO) initiated the Bank's focus on service in the urban areas by expanding the
water supply in five cities--Daegu, Gwangju, Masan, Changweon and Jinhae-- and
was successfully completed in 1986. Bank loans to Korea for urban water supply
development are listed in Part III, Table 1.
Objectives and Descrintion
4.          The objectives of the project were to: (a) eliminate problems
associated with sea water intrusion in the Nakdong delta; (b) make available to
Pusan and another 12 cities, 24 towns and industrial zones, about 25 cu m/s of
water released from upstream dams to prevent seawater intrusion into the river



(enough to supply 10 million people with 200 lped); (c) transfer leak detection
and control technology and implement such programs in some 15 cities; (d)
establish computerized accounting and management informatior systems in about
15 Water Bureaus; (e) improve the financial and water pricing policies in the
Korea Water Resources Development Corporation (KOWACO),1 the main implementing
agency; and (f) protect the Nakdong's estuarine environment and develop KOWACO's
environmental management expertise.
5.          The project had three components:
(a)   Construction of  the Nakdong Aarane  (500 m  long),  Including
appurtenant works, dikes, dredging, land reclamation of 190 ha, a
discharge sluice, a navigation lock, fish passes, a four-lane road,
and service and operation facilities. The project also provided
for systematic monitoring of the estuarine environment, quantitative
and qualitative ecological impact studies, and the preparation and
implementation of an environmental protection program by KOVACO;
laboratory equipment was provided for the studies and microcomputer
hardware for environmental management;
(b)   Leak Detection Program, to reduce non-revenue water which often
accounted for more than 308 of water produced.   Equipment and
training were provided to implement newly-introduced methodologies
to detect and correct water leakage in a_out 15 cities, with
nationwide replication of the program expected; and
(c)   Institutional Development grogram,  comprising the provision of
microcomputers to about 15 city Water Bureaus and development of
standard programs for billing, accounting, payroll, inventory
management, etc. to strengthen their accounting, financial and
manager!al capabilities, with the expectation of eventual nationwide
dissemination of the program.
6.          Pusan, a principal beneficiary of the project, agreed to carry out
and self-finance a variety of water and sewerage works to complement barrage
construction. Pusan was to receive about half the water made available by the
barrage, be relieved of water rationing and salinity problems, and provided with
a new road over the barrage as well as 190 ha (later expanded to 330 ha) of
reclaimed land for industrial and residential use. The complementary works
included construction of (a) a new treatment plant and distribution system for
500,000 tons of water per day and (b) the Janglim interceptor sewer to divert
industrial and domestic wastes to downstream of the barrage, thus preventing
contamination of the barrage reservoir which was some 20 km downstream of the
city's water intakes. The cost of the Pusan works would be about US$130 million,
with financing provided by the city a.'- a US$25 million loan from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan.
2 Then called the Industrial Sites and Water Resources Corporation (ISWACO).



-3-
Design and Organizatio"
7.          Plans  for  barrage  construction  and  project  programs  were
satisfactory. Barrage construction was carried out by KOWACO, a semi-autonomous
corporation under the Ministry of Construction (MOC), with responsibility for
construction of multipurpose dams and regional water supply systems. The barrage
was identified by four different studies as the least-cost solution to prevent
salinity intrusion in the delta and provide additional water to downstream cities
and towns. The Bank's involvement during the selection of the barrage design,
the preparation of which was funded under Loan 1666-KO, was instrumental in
ensuring that the location of the barrage was based mainly on environmental
considerations.  The three initial design alternatives proposed by the 1981
feasibility study were therefore rejected and replaced by a costlier but
environmentally-superior alternative. The extensive Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) for the barrage was reviewed carefully by the Bank and
extensively commented upon. The solution finally adopted drastically reduced
the land reclamation initially proposed and included many features for
environmental protect in such as underflow and overflow gates to allow the
circulation of nutrients, even under low flows, fish ladders, interception and
treatment of sewage flows, and regulation of minimum flows.
8.          The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) implemented the two institutional
components. The project's programs to improve leakage detection by the Water
Bureaus and to introduce a computerized accounting and financial managem1ent
system addressed major deficiencies in the Water Bureaus' financial and
operational practices, indicated by high levels of non-revenue water, the lack
of double entry accounting, manual billing, weak management information systems
and insufficient staff.
9.          Although inclusion in the project of the complementary works in Pusan
was considered during project preparation (see Part III, Table 2), the city
decided that it did not need Bank financing. However, to ensure cost recovery
and timely construction of these works, as a condition of Board presentation,
the Mayor of Pusan signed a letter of understanding committing the city to pay
KOWACO for the additional water it used and to construct additional water supply
works as well as the Janglim sewer interceptor and treatment plant by December
31, 1987. While the waterworks were completed on schedule, the interceptor was
delayed.  The estimated cost of the interceptor, in 1983 prices, was US$16
million, to be financed 20% by city funds, 60% by foreign and commercial loans
and bonds, and 20% by the Central Government. This was not expected to impose
a major burden on city finances. However, the city's rapid construction of a
large subway system during 1984-89 almost bankrupted city finances and resulted
in slow implementation of the interceptor, which will be completed in 1990 rather
than 1987 as planned. This delay has required changes in the operating procedures
of the barrage during the dry season to flush the reservoir during low tides.
The cost of interceptor works was also greatly increased by including a full
sewage treatment plant of larger capacity than planned.  Pusan's financial
problems also initially caused it to delay paying KOWACO for the cost of the
additional water received (at the average long-term marginal cost, as KOWACO
agreed in Section 4.08 of the Project Agreement). Pusan also came into conflict
with the Governmenr over the project's protection of an important migratory bird



habitat downstream of the barrage, which it wanted for industrial development
(para. 21).
UmlXementatio
10.         The project was completed on schedule, achieving or surpassing all
of its objectives. The barrage was commissioned ahead of schedule in September
1987, with construction carried out in only four years, a record for the
construction of a major hydraulic structure. The computerization and leakage
control programs surpassed their targets. The two programs were completed about
two years later than originally planned (but within the original closing date),
due to delayed selection of consultants, procurement of additional leak detection
equipment and, more important, implementation of the programs in more WBs than
expected. The computerization program was originally targeted for 15 cities but
was tested in 31 Water Bureaus and eventually implemented in a total of 58
cities. The leak detection program was carried out as expected in 12 cities but
wes then implemented in another five cities (included under the First Water
Supply Project).  Initial delays, due to a significant sho:tage of staff and
inadequate government budgetary allocations, were addressed and the component
was implemented satisfactorily. Complementary waterworks carried out by Pusan
were completed ahead of schedule. Sale of the reclaimed land was delayed to
1989-90 due to a decision to develop the land before sale, rather than leaving
it undeveloped as originally planned; this change greatly increased the value
of the land. With strong demand for land in the Pusan area, the land reclaimed
and developed under the project has been sold as soon as it was available.
11.         Establishment of a Natural Environment Preservation Area (NEPA) to
protect an important migratory bird habitat in the Nakdong estuary was a major
project achievement.   Gaining approval of the NEPA was difficult due to
unforeseen legal objections raised by Pusan City and the long process of
completing required studies and gaining the approvals of the ten ministries and
government agencies involved in the NEPA approval process. Although the final
NEP' approval was postponed for three years, until December 31, 1988, the
construction and development moratoria approved for the area during these years
achieved the same environmental protection. objectives as the NEPA.
12.         Construction of the Janglim interceptor sewer parallel to the barrage
was not included in project financing and was largely self-financed by Pusan
City. When the City encountered serious financial problems due to accelerated
construction of a subway, interceptor construction had to be delayed by three
years but is expected to be completed in 1990. To compensate for the lack of
the interceptor, the operation of the barrage was modified, allowing for flushing
of the reservoir during low tides. As originally planned, the loan was closed
on June 30, 1989.
promjct Results
13.         All project components were carried out successfully. The barrage
is operating satisfactorily, eliminating salinity in the downstream areas and
allowing water to be used for municipal, industrial and agricultural uses. Demand
projections indicate that the incremental water supply will be fully used by
1994. Without the barrage, the drought c.oinditions now prevailing in the Nakdong



-5
area would have forced Pusan and Ulsan to cut off water supply for several
hundred hours a year, and would have required large releases of water to reduce
salinity intrusion, resulting in water rationing in many upstream cities. The
barrage also allowed intensification of agriculture in the Gimhae area and higher
productivity. The land reclaimed under the project is expected to be sold for
about US$302 million, or about 50% more than the total project cost, and is
important for further industrial and residential development in Pusan, which is
one of the most densely populated cities in the world.
14.         The computerized accounting and management information systems
developed under the project have been successfully adopted by more than 50 WBs,
about four times the initial target, helping them to operate more efficiently.
Under the leak detection component, up-to-date technology was transferred to the
VBs and local consultants, and manuals and improved specifications for pipelines
and house connections were developed for nationwide use. The benefits of the
leak detection program were also extended to more cities than forecasted and,
through the establishment and equipping of leak detection units in each project
WB, the project ensured that these benefits will continue, to the benefit of
operational efficiency and cost recovery.
15.         KOWACO' s financial performance was generally satisfactory throughout
the project but deteriorated in 1988, when one of the worst droughts in this
century reduced water flows and thus water and power sales.  As a result, the
rate of return of KOWACO's Dams Division declined from 9% in 1987 to 3% in 1988,
below the covenanted 5% under the Loan Agreement. This problem, however, will
be relieved when water flows (and power sales)  e#turn to normal levels in the
near future. The rate of return of KOWACO's Water Division also declined from
7% in 1987 to 3% in 1988. This is a temporary problem, partly due to the drought
and partly due to the sudden entering into operation of several large systems
(which doubled the Division's assets during 1987-89). Since water systems are
designed for the capacity required up to ten years after construction, it is not
possible to obtain a satisfactory rate of return during the f.rst or even the
second year of operation of a new system. KOWACO was also forced at this time
to take over an over-designed and very expensive water supply system (Geum Gang),
for which current national water rates cover only about one third of costs.
Nevertheless the rate of return, even using tariffs below levels recently
approved by the President, should be 5% in 1991 and higher thereafter. These
rates are based on fully revalued assets. Other than in 1988, KOWACO's financial
position was generally satisfactory, as indicated by good debt service ratios,
the contribution to investment, and cash reserves.
16.         The project's environmental achievement is particularly noteworthy.
The project was designed not only to minimize the potential environmental damage
associated with barrage construction but also to protect the bird habitat in the
Nakdong estuary from development. Therefore, as agreed under the loan, a 34.2
sq km area of mud flats, islands and wetlands in the Nakdong estuary was declared
a NEPA by MIC (in December 31, 1988) and a Natural Ecological System Preservation
Area (NESPA) by the Office of the Environment (in March 1, 1989), thus giving
this important migratory bird sanctuary the maximum protection from development
available under law. This was the first area ever to be provided such protection
in Korea. Other environmental control measures were also introduced in the area
surrounding the NEPA to further protect the bird habitat. Although the project's



environmental targets were probably too ambitious, they were nevertheless
successfully achieved.
17.         At completion, the project cost was about US$218 million, 31% higher
than expected due mainly to the inclusion of additional works (establishment of
a flood forecasting system, 140 ha of additional land reclamation, full
development of the reclaimed land and increased compensation costs, particularly
for fisherman, see Part II, Tables II-5 and II-6). Land and barrage construction
accounted for about 98% of the total cost of the project and the two
institutional development programs for the remainder. Due to savings resulting
from a decrease in the exchange rate between the won and the US dollar, lower
than expected bids for equipment and consultant services, and KOWACO's higher
self-financing capacity, only about 65% of the loan was disbursed and US$27.2
million of the loan amomnt was cancelled in stages throughout the project period
(see Part III, Table 3). KOWACO and some government equity contributions covered
the remaining costs. Even with the increase in project cost, the rate of return
of the project was very high (20%) and similar to the original appraisal estimate
of 24% (Part III, Table 6).
Sustainability
18.         The project's achievements are expected to be fully sustainable.
Barrage inspection and maintenance manuals prepared under the project should
ensure optimal operation of the facility, as will the adequate complement of
offices, equipment and staff provided by KOWACO for this purpose. The flood
protection and warning sr stem included in the project will allow better operation
of all water structures in the river and better protection of the population
living near the river against floods during the monsoon season.   The leak
detection and environmental capabilities established under the project will
ensure that such efforts will continue in the future. Permanent units for leak
detection and control were created in the project WBs and provided with
equipment.   The Environment Management Unit and the Environmental Research
Division established in KOWACO will monitor water quality at eight points on the
river as well as biological and ecological parameters, e.g., the avian
population, phytoplankton, sediments, etc.
19.         Some project benefits,  like the protection of water quality,
reduction of water leakage and protection of the environment, would be expanded
at a national level during 1990-95 by a National Water Improvement Program
(NWIP). The NWIP includes (a) expanded leak detection efforts and replacement
of about 27,500 km of corroded/leaking pipes and (b) increased protection of
Korean rivers through the provision of government financing for the relocation
of 550 industries nationwide before 1992, the modernization/rehabilitation of
20% of the country's water treatment plants and significant expansion of sewage
treatment works totaling some W 2,160 billion, with 80% grant financing. The
improved financial performance of KOWACO sought under the project, partly through
increased water tariffs, should also benefit from the 30% increase in water
tariffs during 1990-92 approved by the President in conjunction with the NWIP.
Because of KOWACO's institutional success, the Government may give KOWACO full
responsibility for management of water quantity, quality and sewage treatment
of the main rivers, including the Nakdong. This should help to further improve
environmental conditions throughout entire basin areas.



-7
Bak; Performance
20.        The Bank was particularly active throughout the course of this
project in ensuring that the project objectives were attained. Bank supervisory
staff attempted to assist Pusan to complete the interceptor by preparing a
possible financing plan and exploring the possibility of government funding for
this activity.  More notably, Bank staff and management were significantly
involved in ensuring achievement of the project's environmental benefits, which
necessitated continued attention throughout project preparation, construction
and operations. As noted in para. 7, Bank involvement in the design selection
process resulted in the choice of a more environmentally acceptable design
alternative. Bank efforts to ensure careful control of construction and dredging
during the construction period also eliminated or greatly reduced environmental
damage.
21.         Bank staff and management also devoted considerable time to ensuring
that the ecologically sensitive areas of the Nakdong estuary were given full
legal protection from development, as stipulated in the Loan Agreement. This
was a more difficult task than expected since Pusan City badly needed additional
land due to its hilly terrain, difficult geographical position and high
population density (one of the highest worldwide). Pusan's development plan
included the reclamation of 64 sq km in the middle of the estuary for an
industrial site.   However, the Bank was not officially informed about these
plans until late-1985, when it also learned that a national law had expanded the
city's boundaries to included the entire estuary area and that no environmental
protection could be provided for such areas. Since these changes went counter
to the Loan Agreement, the Bank made a strong representation to the Government
to halt the proposed development. This resulted in moratoria on development and
construction in the estuary area, during which time the long and very difficult
process of gaining legal protection for the area was undertaken. A satisfactory
agreement was finally reached, under which reclamation was limited to an area
covering only 11.7 sq km outside the critical estuary area, including 1.7 sq km
of mud flats and 10 sq km in an outlying and environmentally less sensitive area.
Bank management also participated in gaining agreement that strict environmental
guidelines would be enforced to limit industrial pollution of the protected area,
through pre-treatmen; of all industrial wastes, the use of liquified natural gas
rather than coal as fuel in the surrounding area to prevent air pollution, the
creation of greenbelt buffer zones to shield the preservation area from
industrial pollution, and the construction of 3 sq km of additional mud flats
and grass fields on an estuary island.
22.         Bank staff provided steady, continuing encouragement to MOC, which
was responsible for guiding the NEPA initiative through a labyrinthine legal and
administrative approval process. The critical estuary area now has the maximum
ecological protection that can be provided in Korea.
23.         The lessons learned under the project were: (a) the advanced state
of project preparation and the procurement of construction under a single
contract greatly reduced the project cost (60% of the initial engineering
estimates) and simplified implementation; (b) environmental protection requiring
changes in laws or regulations is difficult and requires a long lead time to gain
consensus on issues affecting a number of government agencies with varying



- a -
interests and objectives; (c) the transfor of technology to many cities,
particularly for accounting and leak detection, can be carried out successfully
at minimum cost; and (d) covenants wbich are realistic and achievable result in
compliance.
Borrower Performance
24.         KOWACO's impressive technical capabilities and experience resulted
in its completion of a large and complex hydraulic structure in the record time
of less than four years. The performance of MOHA in implementing the leak
detection and accounts computerization programs was also satisfactory, although
the component could have been completed earlier.   The project's positive
environmental impact is testament to the cooperation of the Korean authorities,
particularly KOWACO, MOC and its National Physical Planning Bureau, which showed
responsiveness to the Bank's suggestions on project design and persevered in
pursuing establishment of the NEPA despite various difficulties. The Office of
Environment also showed rapid responsiveness in providing strong support for
inclusion of the largest possible area in the NEPA and establishing the NESPA
soon after the NEPA was legally established. The agencies' compliance with
Loan/Project Agreement covenants is detailed in Part III, Table 7.
Prolect Relationships
25.         Despite the existence of several contentious issues related to the
project, the Bank's relationship with the Government in general and the
implementing agencies in particular remained amicable throughout. Maintenance
of this very constructive relationship was crucial to the eventual resolution
of the environmental issue, which threatened to become a serious problem for both
the Government and the Bank.  The particularly good relationship which has
developed among the Government, KOWACO and the Bank in the course of several
projects also facilitated a general dialogue on government plans to improve water
resources management, in part by strengthening KOWACO's role in the sector.
These plans have now materialized, as indicated by the NWIP, and the condition
of Korea's water resources and its water supply and sewerage sector should be
significantly improved, where needed, over the next five years.
Consulting Services
26.         Consultants were engaged under the project to supervise project
construction and environmental management, to help prepare the National Leak
Detection Program, to assess requirements for computerization of Water Bureau
accounts, and to carry out various environmental impact studies, including a
study to identify the estuarine area requiring maximum protection as a NEPA.
The performance of these consultants was satisfactory (see Part II, para. 1.22).
Pro ject Documentation and Data
27.         Project documentation was generally adequate.  Although a Project
Agreement with Pusan City might have helped to gain greater cooperation from the
city in implementing complementary investments, little could be done to hasten
implementation in view of the city's near bankrupt financial condition and its
refusal to accept Bank financing for this investment. The availability of data



for project monitoring was satisfactory; a system of computerized financial
projections for KOWACO, which was prepared by Bank staff, was used routinely end
facilitated monitoring of KOWACO's performance.



- 10 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2350-KO _
PART II: BORROWER REVIEW OF THE PROJECT
1. Project Identification and PreRaration
1.1         IntroductLop.  The Nakdong River Basin has an area of some 23,600
sq km and covers one fourth of the total area of Korea (see Map II-1).
Integrated land and water resource surveys and studies of the basin had been
conducted since 1966. On the basis of these studies, a schedule of major dam
construction was prepared to meet the increasing demand for water in the area,
including the requirements for controlling salinity intrusion by excess water
flows.  The Andong Multipurpose Dam, put into operation in 1977, was expected
to offer relief against salinity intrusion for some years to come. However,
accelerated development within the country required a more up-to-date management
plan for water conservation and salinity control in the tidal reaches.
Accordingly, the Nakdong estuary barrage was proposed as the next priority
structure for construction to guarantee a continued water supply for irrigation,
municipal and industrial purposes and to solve increasing salinity problems.
1.2         Origin and Formulation.  Construction of the barrage was proposed
as one of the most economical investments for increasing available water
resources in the Nakdong River Basin, as indicated by basin-wide investigations
and studies including the Nakdong River Basin Preinvestment Survey (UNDP/FAO,
November 1966 - March 1972), the Nakdong Basin Study (MOC, March 1973) and the
Nakdong River Basin Development Project Feasibility Study (Nippon Koei, 1976).
The Nakdong Delta Study (UNDP/FAO, 1974-77) and the Feasibility Study (NEDECO,
1976) identified the project as the least-cost solution to solve salinity
problems in the estuary and to make available some 25 of the 40-50 cu m/s of
water needed for salini.y repulsion in the absence of the barrage.
1.3         Pearation and &Mraisal. Preliminary and detailed designs for the
barrage were financed by the Bank under the Chungju Multipurpose Project (Loan
1666-KO) and were carried out by NEDECO during 1980-83.   KOWACO provided
technical counterparts to assist design consultants mainly in site surveying and
investigations. The Ministry of Construction was the cooperating government
agency.   The overall design was reviewed by an Expert Review Panel (ERP)
established by KOWACO in consultation with the Bank. As agreed by the ERP,
KOWACO, NEDECO and the Bank, the design and the contract document were modified
(para. 2.11) and finalized, and the project was appraised by the Bank based on
the final design in May 1983.
1.4         Qbjectives. The objectives of barrage construction were as follows:
(a)   Salinity Rep2ulsion.   Water withdrawals from the river and its
tributaries for municipal and industrial use were rapidly increasing.
Water balance calculations and observations indicated that under
drought conditions: (i) daily flows would be at critically low levels
and would hardly match daily withdrawals or would be too low to
prevent an unacceptable salinity level at the major water intakes
in the lower reaches of the river; and (ii) in the near future, water



- 11 .
requirements could overtake discharges.  Releases from upstream
reservoirs were possible to mitigate salinity problems. However,
during periods of low river discharges coinciding with peaks in
agricultural water demands, it would be very difficult to ensure
proper water distribution in the river system and hence a substantial
portion of reservoir releases might not reach the river mouth. The
barrage would eliminate salinity problems at the water intakes for
Pusan and the Gimhae agricultural areas in the lower reaches of the
river, and make available about 25 cu m/s of water which would
otherwise be released to the sea to prevent salinity intrusion.
(b)   Land Reclamation and Traffic.   Land is scarce in the densely
populated Pusan region, and urban areas are interspersed with
industrial sites, which is highly undesirable. Land reclamation
for the resiting of industrial complexes would relieve this
situation. Furthermore, a road on top of the barrage would serve
as part of the public road network which would divert some traffic
from existing bridges.    Such a road would also considerably
facilitate limited urban development in the southern part of the
Gimhae polder.
(c)   Institutional Develonment.   The project would help to implement
sound financial and water pricing policies in KOWACO.
(d) ERu-ironmental Protection. The project would also help to protect
the Nakdong River's estuarine environment and to develop KOWACO's
onvironmental management expertise.
1.5         Prolect Descrintion.   The project comprised construction of the
Nakdong estuary barrage and reclamation and environmental monitoring (see
Table 11-1 for details).
(a)   har ge Construction.  The barrage is located at the mouth of the
Nakdong River estuary which has two branches separated by Eulsuk
Island (see Map 11-2). The main barrage works comprised construction
of the 510 m long concrete box girder bridge and ten radial gate
structures built on the left branch to control the river flow. A
700 m long closure dam closes the right branch and is connected to
the 1,200 m long dike across Eulsuk Island which is flanked on the
west by the barrage.   Barrage construction also allowed the
construction of a four-lane road atop the barrage across the Nakdong
River mouth from Pusan to the west and Gyung Nam Province.
(b)   Lad Reclamation and Drainage System. South and north of the barrage
alignment, 190 ha of land reclamation was originally proposed, and
an additional 140 ha of reclamation along the south coast was
included during project implementation, bringing the total ;o 330
ha. The drainage system consists of four pumping stations with
retarding basins and 15 km long main discharge channels.   The
drainage system covers the entire reclaimed area and about 1,200 ha
of an adjacent low-lying inhabited area.



- 12 -
(c)                    . Atenant_FgXUs  A discharge sluice on the eastern part of Eulsuk
Island serves the ecology downstream of the closed right river branch
and ensures adequate water quality in the dead river (upstream of
the right branch) by means of flushing, with a maximum discharge of
150 cu m/s. A navigation lock (9 m by 50 m) for the passage of sand
barges and fishing vessels is situated to the west of the barrage
on Eulsuk Island. Other appurtenant works include viaducts, dikes,
approach channels, fish passes, a flood forecasting and warning
system, and service and operation facilities.
(d)   Environmental Nonitoring.   The project included the systematic
monitoring of the environment in the Nakdong estuary both during and
after construction of the barrage, and the provision of microcomputer
hardware and software for environmental and financial management.
KOWACO established and maintained an Environment Management Unit
(EMU) including expatriate environmental experts supported by
KOWACO's staff, and also executed monitoring of the estuarlne
environment, ecological impact studies and preparation and
implementation of its environmental protection program during
construction.
2. Inlemntati
2.1         Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up.  The Loan Agreement was
signed between the Government and the Bank on October 21, 1983 and declared
effective on January 11, 1984.  The Project Agreement covering the Nakdong
barrage component was signed between KOWACO and the Bank. The Government, which
was the borrower of the loan, relent the loan amount for the Nakdong barrage
component to KOWACO on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan plus a
0.05% p.a. handling charge. There were no special problems in the start-up
period. During this time, KOWACO prepared the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) for barrage construction, and the EIA was approved by the Office of the
Environment (OOE) contingent upon KOWACO' s establishing an Environment Management
Unit (EWU) to survey and monitor the bird habitat and taking countermeasures to
minimize adverse sffects during and after construction. The Ministry of Culture
and Information approved the construction of the barrage and excluded the project
reclamation area from the defined area of National Monument No. 179 (comprising
the bird sanctuary in the Nakdong estuary, para. 2.10) according to KOWACO's
request.
2.2         Revisions.  No significant revisions of the original project were
made.   However, some additions, including  facilities  for operation  and
maintenance of the barrage and part of the infrastructure for the reclaimed area,
were made in the project scope as listed below:
(a)   additional reclamation of 140 ha of land in the Jangrim/Dadae area
was carried out, bringing total land reclamation under the project
to 330 ha;
(b)  drainage  facilities, comprising  four pumping stations with a
retarding basin and 15 km of main drainage channel, were provided
for the reclaimed as well as an adjacent developed area;



- 13 -
(c) ten bridges were constructed across the existing channel extension
through the reclaimed area; and
(d)   a flood forecasting and warning system was installed, covering the
entire Nakdong basin area.
Infrastructure, such as roads, water supply, a sewage pipeline and electricity
distribution lines, were provided under a separate locally-implemented project,
in accordance with Pusan's Master Plan. Details of project revisions are given
below.
2.3         Additional land reclamation was carried out under the project in the
Jangrim/Dadae area on a relatively narrow strip of land extending from the
Jangrim tributary (cheon) southward to near Dadaepo beach, which had been
designated for reclamation under the National Land Use and Management Law of
December 31, 1983. In the original design, the reclamation was to be executed
by using coarser sands mainly from borrow areas outside the channel excavation
areas, and most of the excavated soil with high silt content was to be spoiled
to the sea area. However, the application of hydro cyclones lowered the content
of finer particles in the dredged materials from channel excavation and made them
available for the fill works. Accordingly, the extension of land reclamation
under the project was reviewed and approved in order to dispose of the remaining
excavated sand, after filling in the originally designated reclamation area.
The total amount of sand fill used for the project's land reclamation activities
reached 16 million cu m, which was about 67% of the total excavation of 24
million cu m from the channels. A study of the morphology and back-water effects
of the additional fill work indicated a considerable reduction of the cross
sectional profile of the eastern river branch in the estuary, with higher water
levels than in the original design occurring about 0.3 km upstream of the
barrage. However, only a small increase in the risk of inundation was expected
from the additional reclamation, even in the absence of flooding countermeasures.
Moreover, the increased risk of inundation would occur only just after completion
of the barrage, since nature tends to restore a disturbed equilibrium. As the
study revealed, it is likely that the eastern tidal channel will ultimately be
developed to become the main channel.
2.4         Drainage facilities were planned and executed as part of the
infrastructure of the reclaimed area. In the design phase of the project, the
drainage of adjacent areas was reviewed and included in the project scope. The
original drainage plan was based on the Pusan Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan
drafted in 1974. and mainly dealt with sewage disposal and excess urban rainfall
discharged directly into the river. An essential part of the Master Plan was
the installation of a separate system for sewage transport through closed
conduits, with the main collector running from the north to the south along the
Nakdong River to a purification plant near the river mouth. By the end of 1970,
implementation of the Master Plan had been limited to flood control works like
dikes and primary drains.   Therefore, sewage disposal would be impeded by
construction of the barrage, and a drainage plan was consequently needed to
maintain the quality of water in a small and shallow surface water reservoir
created by the barrage construction. This was thoroughly discussed with the
Pusan City authorities, who envisaged an early commencement of the necessary
works according to the Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan. Accordingly, the



- 14 -
drainage system originally included in the project design was deleted during
project formulation, and the drainage facilities provided under the project were
designed to handle only the excess rainfall in the reclaimed area and the limited
adjacent areas where direct discharges would be impeded by barrage construction.
Sewage transport and a collector system and treatment plant are being executed
as a separate project by Pusan City. The main features of the drainage system
are shown in Table 11-2.
2.5         Ten bridges were designed and built for road connections where the
road crosses the channel extensions. There are five channel outfalls on the west
bank side of the project area which discharge excess rainfall from the adjacent
areas. Barrage construction was to impede discharges into the river from these
outfalls.   Channel extensions were therefore designed running through the
reclamation area to provide drainage of the existing basin area including the
newly reclaimed area. The road system in the reclaimed area was established by
Pusan City according to its Land Use and Urban Development Master Plan.
2.6         A flood forecasting and warning system was established for basin-
wide flood control and quantitative water management. The system consists of
52 rain and 33 water-level gauges, a microwave transmission system to collect
data, and a data processing and warning control system in the main -,ervice center
on Eulsuk Island.
2.7         ImDlementation Schedule. The project was implemented between October
1983 and June 1988. A comparison of planned and actual execution of works is
given in Table II-3. Construction of the barrage began in November 1983 and was
completed in November 1987, two months sooner than expected. Operations of the
bridges and maingates, the navigation lock and the discharge sluice started
thereafter. Minor project works were completed by June 1988.
2.8         Initially,  barrage  construction  was  frequently  hampered  and
interrupted by demonstrations, blockages and occupations by people living in the
periphery of the project area. These problems were related to the acquisition
of land and various aspects of compensation, which were not fully settled prior
to the commencement of works (para. 2.14). In addition, two major river floods
passed the construction site in the wet season of 1984 when the building pit for
the barrage main works was under construction, and typhoon 'Thelma" passed over
the project site in July 1987, when major works were mostly completed and after
closure of the western river branch. The floods and typhoon caused minor damage
to the project works but seriously damaged the houses of the neighboring
inhabitants and resulted in demonstrations and occupations of site offices and
works by the injured inhabitants. These problems caused about eight months
slippage in the construction schedule, but were effectively compensated for by
accelerating construction works. The land acquisition and compensation problems
were fully settled during the construction period.
2.9         Procurement.   All civil works and equipment for the barrage,
estimated at US$81 million  in 1983 U.S.  dollars,  were procured throigh
international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. Procurement
of all supplies and construction for the barrage and appurtenant works was under
one contract to ensure proper integration of the different project components
and early completion of works. Technical specifications and bidding documents



- 15 -
were reviewed by the Bank. Advance contracting had been included, given the
urgent need to begin construction in October 1983 at the start of the dry season
to avoid a year's delay in project completion. Six joint ventures and four local
contractors presented bids on August 10. 1983. The contract was awarded on
September 10, 1983 with Bank concurrence.  The Bank indicated that advance
contracting was undertaken at the Government's risk and that Bank financing of
the project was contingent on the Board's approval of this project. Advance
contracting reduced the estimated project cost and foreign cost component since
actual bids were 36% lower than engineering estimates. This was mainly the
result of Korea's highly competitive construction industry and some alternative
technical solutions proposed by the bidders.
2.10        Enironmental Monitoring and Management. The Nakdong estuary is a
wintering place for migratory birds from the Arctic region. The main areas of
the estuarine habitat were declared a National Monument, No. 179, by the
Government in 1966. The designated area is about 240 sq km, including the entire
project area, and disturbance of the bird habitat was strictly prohibited. In
the preparation of the project, it was well recognized that adverse effects on
the environment had to be minimized and the bird habitat preserved; designs for
the project therefore incorporated features for this purpose.
2.11        KOWACO prepared an Ecological Impact Assessment (EIA), based on the
design consultant's recommendations, and OOE approved the project, subject to
conditions designed to minimize adverse effects on the environmer.t.
Subsequently, the Ministry of Culture and Information excluded the reclamation
area of 190 ha and the project works from National Monument No. 179 according
to KOWACO's request.  In the course of project implementation, KOWACO also
prepared an EIA for the additional reclamation area (Jangrim/Dadae) and changed
land use, according to the Pusan Master Plan.  OOE approved the additional
reclamation and changed land use, and the Ministry of Culture and Information
excluded 140 ha of additional reclaimed area from National Monument No. 179.
2.12        KOWACO fully complied with the conditions recomended by OOE through
its Environment Management Unit (EMU).  The EMU was established at the Pusan
Project Office at the beginning of project implementation in 1983, and comprised
local and foreign environmental specialists. The Unit operated satisfactorily
during the project period. KOWACO also established an Environment Management
Section at headquarters in September 1983, which is responsible for overseeing
and assisting environment-related activities of the EMU and the Pusan Project
Office.   This section has expanded and developed into a department for
environmental management of all KOWACO projects.
2.13        Increased demand for more urban and agricultural land due to
population growth could lead to the reclamation of areas in the Nakdong estuary
essential for the preservation of the bird habitat. Therefore, one of the major
works of the EKU was to carry out a study identifying areas which are vital for
the continued preservation of the bird habitat. The EMU executed the study in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to OOE and the Bank, and proposed
the boundaries for a Natural Environment Preservation Area (NEPA) and a Natural
Ecological System Preservation Area (NESPA) in the estuary. Based on the results
of this study and recommendations of EMU, MOC designatad a NEPA of about 34 sq



- 16 -
km under the National Land Use and Management Law on January 10, 1989 (Map II-
3), and OO designated the NESPA in March 1989.
2.14        Land Acauisition and Cgmpengsatig. For the project, 2.2 million sq m
of land were acquired and compensation was provided for 924 houses and other
buildings, fishery and public fasilities, etc. within the project area and in
its vicinity. Costs for land acquisition and compensation totalled US$37.56
million in 1988 U.S. dollars. Details of land acquisition, compensation and the
related costs are given in Table 11-4.   In addition, 786 hou.oholds of
inhabitants within the project area and its vicinity were resettled on the newly
reclaimed land in the Shinpyong and Myongji Dong. Resettlement areas covered
79,900 sq m and 32,000 sq m, respectively, and were fully provided with public
facilities, including roads, potable water supplies, drainage and sewerage
collectors, electricity, etc.
2.15        Costs and Disbursement.  At project appraisal, the total cost of
constructing the Nakdong barrage was estimated at US$167.02 million, including
physical and price contingencies, of which US$73.32 million or about 44%
represented foreign exchange. The actual cost of this component was US$212.43
million equivalent or about 27% above the estimated cost, largely due to the
additional works described in paras. 1.7-1.11. However, the cost of consultants
for the supervision of barrage construction and environmental management support
to KOWACO was estimated at US$5 million but the actual cost was US$3.28 million
equivalent. A comparison of estimated and actual costs is given in Table II-5
and the actual cost by year is given in Table II-6.
2.16        The Bank loan of US$73.50 million for the barrage was to be disbursed
against:
(a)   55% of the contract for the barrage (which included civil works and
equipment);
(b)   100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 100% of the foreign
expenditures for computer hardware and software, and equipment for
monitoring the environment;
(c)   100% of the initial mobilization payment for the barrage; and
(d)   100% of the cost of consulting services.
The actual disbursement of the loan amounted to US$47.73 million, which was 65%
of the original loan amount for this component. Tables II-7 and II-8 give
details of loan disbursement for the Nakdong component.
2.17        Consultng Services.  Under the project, consultants were engaged
to help supervise barrage construction and to assist in studyirg and planning
the environmental protection of the Nakdong estuary (1983-85).   The major
assistance and services rendered by the consultants are summarized below:



- 17 -
For Barrage Construction
(a)   advise on the approval of the contractor' a work program, working
methods, proposals for plant, equipment, key personnel, etc;
(b)   assist KOWACO's Resident Engineer in checking and giving final
approval of all working and shop drawings submittftd by the
contractor;
(c)   prepare additional detailed designs and design calculations;
(d)   inspect the progress of the project works and their conformance to
contract specifications;
(e)  provide on-the-job training to KOWACO's supervision staff; and
(f)   prepare operation and maintenance manuals for the barrage.
For Environmental Protection
(g)  assist KOWACO in drafting and carrying out an ecological research
program for the Nakdong estuary,
(h)  assist KOWACO in selecting suitable Korean personnel to crry out
parts of the ecological research;
(i)   assist KOUACO in setting up an administrative and organizational
framework to carry out research and to implement environmental
management;
(j)  provide guidance on matters of environmental protection during the
construction phase;
(k)  assist KOWACO in drafting an environmental management plan for the
Nakdong estuary, including guidelines for maintenance dredging,
operation of the barrage and discharge sluice, sewage disposal, land
reclamation and land use;
(1)   assist KOWACO in drafting an environmental monitoring program and
in initiating program implementation; and
(m)   train Korean staff, where necessary.
2.18       Water Demand and Sales. The projection of total water demand for
municipal and industrial use in the Nakdong River Basin is shown in Table II-9.
The projection was babed on government population forecasts and the estimated
per capita water production for the 37 municipalities which depend on the Nakdong
River or its tributaries for water supply. The population, service levels, per
capita production forecasts and resulting water demand projection are presented
in Table 11-10. The main wat#'r users are Pusan, Ulsan/Onsan and Daegu, which
represent about 80% of total municipal and industrial water demand. A projection
of incremental water demand (base year of 1982) shows that the water made



- 18 -
available by the barrage operation would be fully used by 1994. According to
a demand projection made by KOWACO and the project consultants (NEDECO),
agricultural watar demand will increase by only some 140 million cu m per year
until 1991, and will largely coincide with low river flows in May and June.
2.19        Total sales of municipal and industrial water are estimated at 450
million cu m per year. The estimate is based on the incremental water demand
served by the main river, excluding its tributaries.
2.20        Taxiffs.  The water tariffs used by KOWACO s Dams Division were
formerly proportional to the cost of each system; however, in 1987 a nationwide
single tariff was introduced. Municipal and industrial water made available by
the barrage will also be charged at the single rate of W 5.94 per cu m (compared
to the V 7 per cu m used in appraisal estimates) which was agreed between the
concerned government Ministries in 1987.   Sale of the land reclaimed and
developed under the project is expected to bring in about US$302.4 million (see
Table II-11).
3. Financial Yerformance
3.1         KOWACO's Financial Status.  KOWACO's authorized capital is W 1,500
billion.   Its paid capital of V 557.8 billion consists of W 321.8 billion
transferred in goods, W 234.5 billion transferred in cash and the W 1.5 billion
surplus transferred into capital.
3.2         The ratio of costs to sales (the operating ratio) averaged almost
88% a year during FY83-88 as against almost 99% during FY78-82; the 11% drop
resulted in a great improvement of profit to sales and was due to deferred
earnings from the sale of land for new town projects. The operating ratio for
dams projects has averaged 87.4% a year during FY83-88 as against 110% in FY82
and has shown great improvement.   The current ratio, which represents the
liquidity of a firm, was 0.86 in FY82 and increased to more than 1 during FY83-
88 as a result of deferred earnings from remaining new town projects and of
increased water demand registered by the Dams Division. The debt-to-equity
ratio, which represents the stability of a firm, averaged 53.6% a year during
FY78-82, but dropped by 40.6% during FY83-88, resulting in a great improvement
(see Tables II-12 and II-13).
4. Institutional Performance
4.1         Management and Organization Effectiveness.    KOWACO,  the main
executing agency for the Nakdong barrage, was established on February 1, 1974
for the development of:   (a)  industrial sites,  (b) water resources for
irrigation, flood control, power generation, industrial and municipal water
supply, and (c) operation and maintenance of multipurpose dams and facilities
to provide bulk water for industrial and municipal consumption. On July 1, 1988,
its duties were rationalized and it was made Korea's main institution for water
resources development and management.
4.2         KOWACO is currently managed by a Board of iD4-ectors consisting of
a President, one Vice President and six Directors (Planning, Administration, Dam
Management and Maintenance, Water Supply and Public Utilities, Dam Construction



- 19 -
and Industrial Sites).   KOWACO has developed into a large and competent
organization during the past decade. It has expanded its organization from 16
departments at the Daejon head office, 17 local offices and 1,214 employees in
1983 to its present 23 departments, 24 local offices, and 2,028 employees.
4.3         In 1983, KOWACO established a department at its head office and a
local office at the Pusan site to handle project implementation. The site office
wL  also in charge of the operation of the project after completion in 1988.
These organizational arrangements ensured effestive implementation of the
project. Key KOWACO staff with experience in the execution and management of
water resources projects were employed for the Nakdong project; they were well
Staff were engaged in the inspection, installation and performance testing of
equipment and became thoroughly familiar with the equipment and its operation.
The main contract and consulting services provided for on-the-job and overseas
training of key staff.
5. Project Justification
5.1         Municigal and Industrial (M/I) Water.  Actual M/I water withdrawals
in the Nakdong Basin between 1981 and 1985 increased at the rapid rate of some
7.0% per year. In the estuary area, water withdrawals increased at about 16%
for the main cities including Pusan, Ulsan, etc. (Table II-9). Under the present
drought conditions, the water supply in the cities of Pusan and Ulsan would have
inevitably been stopped for hundreds of hours each year without the barrage.
The river flow required for salinity repulsion is estimated at about 40 cu m/s.
The barrage operation makes available to the cities about 25 cu m/s of water
(totalling up to 750 million cu m per year), which would otherwise be used for
salinity repulsion. The remaining 15 cu m/s of flow has been maintained to allow
for dilution, navigation, fisheries and to provide nutrients to the estuary area.
5.2         &gricultJur. Operation of the barrage eliminates salinity problems
in the Ginhae polder area which is one of the most productive agricultural areas
in Korea. Its original intake at Daedong had to be abandoned due to salinity
intrusion, and prior to the project the present intake at Weolcheon had already
experienced salinities over 2,000 parts per million. This situation would have
resulted in gradual deterioration of agricultural productivity in the polder
area.   With the barrage, the intakes at both Daedong and Weolcheon supply
salinity-free water, which has allowed intensification of agriculture and higher
productivity in the polder area.
5.3         Land Reclamation. The land reclaimed and developed under the project
is extremely valuable for the densely populated Pusan region. Pusan City plans
to use this land to resite some of the industrial complexes now interspersed in
the urban area and to develop a residential area and public utilities. This will
help to relieve the current undesirable situation resulting from the scarcity
of land in the region.
5.4         Traffic. A four-lane roadway on the barrage has improved access to
the southern part of the Komhae region and reduced travel distances by about
10 km. The bridge, which is part of the public road network, diverts traffic
from existing bridges on the river in the estuary. This will facilitate urban
development of the Kimhae polder, thus increasing the value of this land.



- 20 -
MAIN FKATURVES OF THE NAKDONG BARRAGE                TWb 1*
GENERAL , FLOOD & WATER LEVER.
*.CATCHMENT  AREA     23,600 km^2
*.DESIGN  DISCHARGE     18,300  u^3 / s (500 YEARS RETURN PERIOD)
*.NORMAL OPERATING WATER LEVELI. : EL + 1.0 m(+ 0.25 m ) SMSI. (STANDARD MEAN SEA LEVEI.)
*.DESIGN FLOOD WATER LEVEL   EL + 3.8 m SMSL
BARRAGE  AND  CLOSlUR  IJAM
*.TOTAL LENGTH : 2,400 m
*.CLOSURE  DAM  AND  DIKES     1,890 m
*.BARRAGE  : 510 m
BARRAGE GATE
*.6 MAIN GATES : W 47.5 i * H R m , WETGHT 250 tons ;ite
*.4 REGULATING GATES : W 47.5 m * H 6.75 m , WEIGHT 250 tons / gate
BRIDGE
*.4 LANE (18 m) PRESTRESSED CONCRETE BOX GIRDER
   :
NAVIGATION LOCK
*.W 9 m * L 50 m ; WITH 2 SETS OF MITRE GATES
DISCHARGE SLUICE
*.W 3.7 m $ h 4.9 m ; WITH 2 VERTICAL ROLLER GATES



- 21 -
LAND RECLAMATION
*.330 ha ( FORMATION LEVEL : EL f 2.2 - 3.7 SMSL )
DRAINAGE FACILI]TIES
*.MAIN CHANNEL 11.82 km
*.4 PUMPING STATION WITH RETARDING BASIN
FLOOD FORECASTING AND WARNING SYSTEM
*.52 RAIN FALL GAUGES
*.33 WATER LEVEL GAUGES
*.3 WATER QUALITY STATIONS
*.I MONITORING & WARNING CONTROL STATION
10 BRIDGES ON RECLAIMED AREA



- 22 -
MAIN FEATURES OF THE DRAINAGE FACILITIES
A.MAIN CHANNEL
*.CONCRETE PIPE       D=8O0 - 1350 m / m , L=1,070 m
*.CONCRETE BOX CULVERT : B 1.0 * H 1.5 - B 3.5 * H 2.5 , L=4,270 .
*.CONCRETE LINEI) CHANNEL   B - 1.0 - 5.0 m , L = 4,790 m
*.BLOCK LINED CHANNEL     = 1.0 -- 12.0 a , L   1,690 m
*.INVERTED SYPHON : 2 es (CROSSING HAKJANG & GOEJEONG CREON EXTENTION)
TOTAL LENGTH : 11.82 km
B.PIJMPING FACILITIES
HAKJANG I
*.DRAINAGE BASIN AREA   0.63 kmA2
*.RETARDING BASIN AREA   4,120 m^2
*.MOTOR PUMP: 125 kw* 2 sets (CAPACITY :190 n3 ,min;
*.ENGINE PUMpP  320 Hp * I set  ( CAPACITY    95 m^3 t mi-
*.EMERGENCY GENERATOR : 1000 kw * 1 set
HAKJANG II
*.DRAINAGE BASIN AREA : 0.02 )Wa2
*.MOTOR PUMP : 19 kw * 2 sets ( CAPACITY   12 um3 / in)
GOEJEONG
=Z=======
*.DRAINAGE BASIN AREA : 1.80 km^2
*.RETARDING BASIN AREA  6,270 m'2



- 23
*.MOTOR PUMP: 200 kw * 3 sets ( CAPACITY  I!K) m^3 'Iu in
*.ENGINE PUMP: 355 Hp * 2 sets ( CAPACITY   190 mA3  m win)
*.EMERGENCY GENERATOR   1000 kcw * I set
JANGRIM
*.DRAINAGE BASIN AREA   1.93 kW2
*.RETARDING BASIN AREA   7,030 um2
*.MOTOR PUMP  200 kw * 3 sets ( CAPACITY   190 m^3  m min )
*.ENGINE PUMP   320 Hp * 2 sets ( CAPACITY   190 m^3 /- min)
*.EMERGENCY GENERATOR   1000 kw * 1 set



*~~ ~~          *11~       1 ~~
! - - -- -.J....1.....1.....*............
|: |1    1'''  :  'I I  I    '    | 1-|!I'i;|Sk-^b" 
wi , ........  .. .  .  ii''''' '' -'X '' '' '? ! -    .X-j  g
; 1 0 11             jW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A[i
'I''' i''' .. ; - - + ------- - '''''''''''''''''''''t;'l' '''



- 25  -
Table II-4
LAND ACQUISITION & COMPENSATION
IINI'l   TIOUSAND  US $
AREAS
:                                    :  UNITS :             &          :    COSTS         :      REMARKS
:                      '              :  ~~~~~~~NUMBERS  :::
-- ------ ------ - -- --:---.-- -                  :       - -         ::  
.*.LAND ACQUISITION                  :  So m        :                  :        10,747  .
:-FARM LANDS                        :     "       '        33,600  :1,200:
- BUILDING  LOTS                   :      "       :5,900  :742:
: -OTHERS                          '              '2,160,500  :8,805'                           
:*.COMPENSATIONS                     :::                                       23,026::
: -HOUSF.S &  BUILDINGS            :     NOs      :         1,141  :           2,547:
:-FISHERIES & OTHERS                :     -       :        -:                 20,095  :
; -PUBLIC  FACILITIES              :                                               84:
R    r                aOH                                                    3 .      a
.             .                  .                  .L5
.L         ACQMISITION         E         SQ -       .10-,747  ::
.             .                                       
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                      
It~ ~~~~~~~ a
-BULDI4G   OTSa                           590074
a                   a              a                  a                  a                      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_



* 26 -
Tablo II-5
:;IM 4ARY OF THE PUOJECT COST    UNIT : US $ MILLION
*--   - =- -S--==  ;. -.- -    US S 1.0O=780.OO(APPRAISAL)
US $ 1.00-740.00(APR.7.88)
A              B             B  A
APIPIRA1SAL   :   ACTUA    : DIFFERENCE
TOTAL PROJECT COST          :        167.20         212.43           45.23
:A.PREPARATORY WORKS                              4.42            5.44           1.02:
:B.CIVIL WORKS                                   64.63 :         75.34          10.71
I-BUILDING PIT                                 3.32 :          1.66           (1.66;:
2. EARTH WORKS                                 21.46 :        30.21            8.75
3.PROTECTION WORKS                   ;         11.05 '        15.79            4.74
4.8ARRAGE                            :         19.44:         20.38 :0.4
5.NAVIGATION LOCK                               4.44 :         3.47           (0.97J.
6.DISCHARGE SLUICE                   :          2.16 :         1.61           (0.55):
7.OPERATION BUILDING                            0.27 :         0.22 :         (0.05):
8.ROAD WORKS                                    1.77 :         1.22 :         (0.55):
9.VIADUCTS                           :          0.72:          0.78:           0.06:
:C.GATE & STRUCTURAL STEEL                        5.53 ;          5.48 :        iG.05":
'D.MECHANICAL WORKS                     :         5.43 :          5.55           0.12
,i..ELECTRICAL WORKS                    ;         1.18 :          1.19 .         0.0i
.F.CONTINGENCY                                   44.00 .       * 2.81 :        (41.19):
At;.UHAINAGH SYSTEM & APPURTENANT WORKS   .             .        .iisfI         . It. t
:H.FLOOD FORECASTING & WATER MANAGEMENT  :     -       :          6.36:          6.36
:        .  .     .                     *...........           
:I.LAND ACQUISITION & COMPENSATION      :         19.91 :        37.56 :        17.65
*                                       I              :               :I
:J.PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             14.34 :        31.65 :        17.31
:K.CUSTOM DUTIES & TAXES                          7.76 :          9.24 :         1.48
* PRICE ESCALATION ONLY



AWIIAL IvAOJECT CMT
TOTAII IN MILLION No    TOTAI. IN MILLION its s                               TOTAL Mm? IN In MILLION
wom                    -  :--  ..                           : ..-       Of       OIP
JOCAI, :t'(Mjux  IDTAL   IXAI  ITU., 1 O*  TOTAL   TMAL  fortrIGN    WI        84      W)               87
TOIAL 11RUCT COST     --121,87t-  35, 3 2 3 .167. IW   164.?O   47.73  212.43  iot). 00   22.47    5.19   30.34   62.39   58.01   59.fij  b.97
;IX'0wTwx:1 tuft (X#bj         73,317  T2.%Ai -.106,903   irJ.0h   44.14  143. LLI  67.Q    30.82    I. IN   I"-HI   32.9.4  30.06   46.34          la
A-11ANICAUK A. WCLANATION    68,btl  32.(9;6 :101.277   92.72   44.14  136.86 t 64.43   32.25    1. IN   18-81   32.86  'm.41 i 43.51             au
PKPAMTORY WORKS              2,639   1.488   4.027    3.43    2.01    6.44    2.66   36.96    0.67    1.79    1.17    0.53    1.26             0. 12
BUtLDING PIT                   779      461   1.230    1.06    0.61    1.60    0.78   36.75                 1.18    0.23    0.21    0.04
CAM    wow                  14,157   8,199  22,356   19.13   11.00   30-21   14.23   36.68    0.16    6.17    8.68    8.84    6.78             U. So
PW1=TI0% WOUILS              7.39R   4,285.: 11.6W    10.00    5.79   16.79    7.43   36.67                 1. 06    1.91    5.51    5.45      1.86
BAVJLiM                      6,438   8,643  16,081    8.70   11.68   20.38    9.59   57.31                  4.68    9.97    4.62    1.07       0.14
NAVIGATION IWK                 819   1.747   2.6W       1.11    2.36    3.47    1.64   68.01                3.07    0. 06    1.48    0.63      0.23
DISCRAME SWICE                 379      814   1,193    0.51    1.10    1.61    0.76   68.32                         0.70    0.28    0.52       0.11
OPMATION BUILDINU              104       69      163    0.14    O.UU    0.22    0.10   36.36                                 0.11    0.11
him    wow                     673      333     906    0.77    0.45    1.22    0.57   36.89                                          1.21      0.01
VIADMITs                       362      215     577    0.40    0. 2V    0.78    0.38   37.18                                         0.77      0.01
GATE & STRUCTtMAL SML        2,322   1.732   4.054    3. 1,4    2.34    5.46    2.60   42.70                0.7!t   2.48 I  1.89    0.32
149" tCAL WORKS              1,060   2,260   4,110    2.51    3.04    5.55    2.61   64.77                          3.52    I-63    0.40
BLOMICAL WORKS                 391      489     OM      0.63    0.66    1-19    0-56   55-46    0-06    0-01    0.09    0.57    0.47
iWAINA(W  FACILITIRS         6,349      661   7,000    0.58    0.88    9.46    4.45    9.30                                  1.94    7.06      0.46
LANWAPINO                    3,477      281   3,758    4.70    0.30    6.09    2.39    7.48                                          4.85      0.23
IMALATItA                    1,328      746   2.076    ).AD    1.01    2.81    1.39-  35.94                         0.60    1. Oti   0.97      0. la
ALIXILIARY WORKS            12.4116     nl  t2.M       16.&9    0.38   17.27    8.13    2.20    0.36    0.07    1.00    3.78   LO.42           t.64
(,Wm=  owlgs S TAM           6.940            6.M       9.24             9.24    4.35    0.00    0.04    2.04    2.45    1.116    2. Id        U.52
B. FLOW FOWASTING.1141=       4,706            4.706    6.3t,             6.36    2.99    0.00                       0.07    4.45    1.83       0.01
MAIIAGDONT L OTMM
z7.791          117.791   37.66             37.56   17.tM    0.00    0.06
:2.00"PzMTION COST                              2                                                             7.?9   13.48    9.58    6.w         u.7z
LAND ACWISITION              7.953            7.953   10.7n,            10.76    5.00    0.00               3.52    0.89    2.34    2.70       0 311
CtMPM&TION                  19'm              19.838   26.81            26.81   J2. t4    0.00    0.06    4.27   12.59    6.24    3. Z3        0.42
PROJFVIT Alwow-w"T MST      20.768   2. 07  23.42'j  Lit. kg.    4.69   31.66   1-1. SO   11.34    U-!Z    3.71       9p    9.57    0
FNVIWNDMAI. MAXAMOM            645      2!x;    841    0.74    0.40    1.14    0.54   35.09    0. 16    0.34    0. 2H    0.23    0.13
PBWLCT SUPERVISION             506   2,028   2,534    0.08    2.811   3.66        1.68   80'9D    0.53    0. J4    0.70    0.91    0.84        0.04
"ICBD CONKMR                             037     67              0.09    0.09    0.04  100.00                        0.09
tu  4 OTOM                              M     3,117    3. Ws    0.22    4.07    1.91-   6.41    2.46    0.05    0.13    1.08    0.24           0.11
I . 0 . c                 1111,730    .      11.730   16.05             J5.85    7.44;   0.00    0.11    1.53    3.21)   5.70    5.22
ADMINISTRATTOW               5,136            5.136    6.94              6.94    3.27    0.00    0.69    1.2ti   1.49    1.65    1.83



- 28 -
Xak 1I-7
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENT OF THE LOAN
--=--==-=---===-_-2           --==  llNIT:US $ MILLION
APPRAISAL            :           ACTUAL
:YEARS    -------- -------
AMOUNT       CUMULATIVF:   AMOUNT            CUMULATIVE
TOTAL   :        73.50:                          47.73
1984   :         13.50 :        13.60 :          8.05 :          8.05
1985   :        14.10 :         27.60 :         16.24 :         24.29
:   986   ;     19.60          47.20 :         17.42           41.71
1987             19.30          66.50            5.89           47.60
1988   :         7.00 :         73.50 :          0.13           47.73
*5                        - - - - - -



- 29 -
Tale II-8
REALLOCATION OF TUE LOAN
--::: :---:-  :-~---~=-         UNIT   US $ TIHOUSAND
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                        .     ..   - .    *,, _, _. .
ORIGINAL      :    ACTUAL             BALANCEI)
ALLOCATION       DISBURSEMENT        UNDlSBUURSED
TOTAL                                73,500             47,73]             25,769
:1.CIVIL WORKS   M ATERIALS FOR PART A                     57,117             44,137             12,980
A) MOBILIZATION                                         5,000 :            4,99S :                 5
B) PROGRESS  PAYMENT                                   52,117             39,142             12,975
:2.EOUIPtENT & MATERIALS FOR PART B                           200                 94                106
;3.tONSULTANT'S SERVICES & TRAINING                         5,000              3,276              1,724
:4.SPECIAL ACCOUNT                              :                                                     0:
:5.FEE                                                        183                183                  0
:                                               :
:                                               :
:6. UNALLOCATED                                            11,000                                11,000
:7.LOSS ON FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTION  :               -                        41                (41):
*~~                                    ~               :                  : 4
*~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                            .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                  .
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 4. .   __ ___ .........._.... .__._ ____
*~~~~~ .                                           ,            S   ..,.._.,._...,,   .... 



03         as               4?               09                93       V1                                                                             313
.osvisIsm        A-1 WA I& 42            04       A     -..  I.1.   t094                                                                                          ..               A 4    A .?191.
*16..IaiIuolis  *14.2    8.o    SI. 7   laS. I    3.v  332.t.  3111.0    136.4   129.4   336.    181.2   217A'   2.4..                          V71.    J.0   293.4#  301.3    311.1   in2 .   34..4    =.S40   Js4.0
*  Iv    2    103*1OIA    130.6   I?.?   13A    14./   31.2   3...9    10.3    19.6    23.1    22.4    23.31    25.0    24-.i    27.4   .20.6.    29.8    33.0    32.2    33.4    34.(.   31.9    37.3
1*.10183311(s     30...   12.2   33.9   34.7   31.2   36.9    38.          19.      21.3    22.4    23.31    25.0    24.2   2V.          231.6    29. 31   A.8    32..?     ! 4      14 ..    318     V1.1
*    331711  1    lolu      02       '      10.2.   11.4   33.9    14./    14.8    3539    3e.9    310.0    1'4.1    20.7    27.1.        2-.      2.2      27.0    2o.31    ;O.&      4.    A.24    4.0A   37.1.4
*  24.11180103(5  SAt                    33.4   33~~~~~~~~~1.9    33.7    14.8    11.9    16.  38.0      19   20.7    22.3    23.9    25.1    27.0    28.8    4O.6    ..2.4         .        ...0     J 6:
SIOKI    ~   ~I 1083    If I13.   111.'  11..   20A.  237.1  2SVI.   219.2   300.2   321.2   342.2   363.1   33119   400.7   419.6   430.4   451.2   469.0   402.    431.3   U.0.0   520.7   14~..
*      21,018 511      a, 134.8  312.   51.0  173.7  201.4  .tj).        2U6.6   254.5   272.3   289.9   307.4   216.9   270           21V4.8   ?70.6   202.3   2944.0   382.1   lIA 30.. 32.    334.31
WIN.8I2J1S1S   33.2    3.1    4.1   31.7   36.5   319.1    42.6.   45.7    49.1    52.3    55.7   15.0   330.0   344.8   3Me.   314.9    MA5.    L3.6    125.    33144    MA4.    313.6
310.( 1846   2    J1AL          37.3    19.    21.0   23.1   23.7    1.3.    30.0    32.          31.      321.1    40.0    43.9    47.0    2.0.2   513.3    UA.    St...   601           f.~~              .".2    ..10.4
14.11113 511 SU
*      4.lRI0UtIffS ~~~~137.93139.8   23.0   27.1   23.7   21.3    30.0    32.7    31.4    38.1    40.8   4C.                 47.0    10.2    $1.3       U.4       21.,   t.0. I   2.9    1. I       .'.     691.8
I    1646    1    3o8.         31.1    U.    38.5   40.2  1% .5   "S.,4   0:.g    90.0    97.0   304.0   133.0   118.2   125.3   132.4   339.6   146.7   11.    164.4    313.8    IU.k   34.:.    54I 9
.4.W18 512    Is ;2.0   33.0   38.7    ZA.   %4 S    :               t1,   VAS.    31.3    %.I   193.2   309.V1 1.. 1..                          a3..   144.4   15.2.7      o.;    I.I        .      ..
:t.;oiwtalrs   1  2.7  30  39  4 21    1.0    1.4.    ~~~6.3  31.1  3.9      7.3      7.8     0.3      089      9.3      980    to.;    30..7   7          1..,     17.3    I,.A     12.9
I4muSl    4433.3 03 40.4.3 34t           1348L12.    631.9 A       4M . I-A" 04.?   700.    7296    34.3    30.    811.1   8.2   01.4    ".11  916.1    V4O.    W17.3 141k.   1,035.4a
11111 1  101111s    I 443.3  443.3  .40.9   46.   $14.4   W5.4 Md-.9    W.,   438.2. FS4A    f0                   *"A.    70.0   001.   030.    811.6    S.0    916.S    66.4     9/.   1.M0.9 1.M1.4
.... ... ... ..... ... ..                    ..                                                                                                                ..   .. ....



a... ... . .. . . .. .    .    . . .. . . . . . ..a-- - -            a.. . .- - - -                                  -- - - - - - -  - --
I                      : heu.ana~~~~~RIit FrmwlS (1rn nEosou   I     te"mKiiwi SEvi,                 Ka CAPIIA PWKtttIS LCD                     [old olOuwia
:es     t0    ',i      ,.    'xeoonosf   'go    ".    'a,.  '2331 '8f            &u   '93    19b    ?OI?   '81          '8&          1       "ft.     12001 
..    -  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  ...............
lil (StieIS)                  1 14    320    130      15      10.  10.2   W0.   90.0  92.0  94.0    2:2   200    300    320    35            23.09    2V.0       J.2a.    44.5?       0.20 
4EI&CG3  isU WI                           87     91     10.    II I 34.   4s.0  "0.0   4.   9s.o   id    2 Wa    2so    IN8    320 :            $.51    34.79      71.13     71.33    33.1
sit"0  TMh.                        14     34     I5      It,     17: w.. 2   t.O   70.0   70.0  85.0   3142   3.2   365    200    22            3.?A      I1. S.    3,7.3    2.124      3lia
ICIEuIISSOIle     I   '. ~~~~~~~~~   30      It       24' ..   4,.Q  W..0   ' is  :0          I"39    200   2130   230    220?    0.92        08 a       .211     I.Q)      2.201
a   ..  .                          .       .                      a     *.           .                a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . . ..... . ...  ... ... .. .
t op 4 flsU.I'M.tIfit          222    230    210    21s3    303                                                                         :    14       44.jt.    1.1.2     77.9i    913. i. 
.... .......                    ------------------ .........
agog1(0  (SI)                   77      79    00       95     301 117.0   71.0  80.0  03.0  95.0   230    240    280    300   3SW  I  ii.tA            34.8      19.n      24.23    29.79
'JIM  CowiNSf                      57     59     46      78       I3  67.0  68.0  80.0  90.1'  95.0 1169    too    200    240    300I   6. 3              7. 22    10.56     31.85     23.60
:susiotsi)                80~~~~~~~$    61    (A  73    79 54.1   6.5.0   ?1.0  85.0  90.0I1 2S   1t.o   180    2 .40    300           3.91      6. 3      9.18      34..8    2IA0I
1(80 1E~~~~~~~~S ~22             23     21      2?      28  18.5   82.0  85.0  85.0   95.0  1333   158    190    240    3081    2.35'            2.03      3.83      S5.0       7.9B
1110188               1 ~~~     ~~~~~25  2o  28  30     32151.6   52.0  to.0  70.0   uS.0?  234    214   226    230   240?             2 2.      2.89      3.7       4.83      L.A3
I A   GEt                   9~~  9       to      is      12162.1  ta3.0  ?0.0  7S.0  03.01  136    36*3   180    200    240?    0 7               0.91       1.26      3...5    2.45?
I  311)                                   1       3      is      37?42.2   49.0.8 o.0   Zo.~ 8       .0   IS      lit19    200    240   2.*0    0A.'      3.2       I5I         3       3t
In                           a                                    a                                   a                                                                                    aS 270 3.7
Wm tfI 1 UiICIPAL fIES         260    26t.   2'5      .2       1                                                                         I   A0. 4     35.0      41.?.               $3.. In
RUE 69 (51)           1~~~~P2.03)  MU15   2.50b   2.15?  2a964 394.0   VS.0   97.0  100.0  300.0 1280    280    340   3130   480 g   4.50    572.17   S20 40  1.i4.A            I.W133.00 
1003(NJ                        1142    350    375       193     2671 4j.C  82.0  05.0  90.0  100.0 1  250    50    me8  ),    440              2.979    30.75      44..4     W  t      cV.0
Mum ago  01)                  I   53      55    .1       o6      le175.1   850 a 10.0   9.0   95,0 i 22          22     2       m0      me 1    0.9k     30.5      13.73     3B.0s1    ol5?
ME1 Om                             I8     29     3)      33      35151.4   92.0   85.0  90.0   9P.0? i171    300    200    220    240?:   3.90            4.25'     5.27      1.53      7.901
so16  SiN                      43     44     48      St      542 85.3   St.0  06.0  10.0  95.0 II 134    360    ISO   280    240 1 4.01               otiSQ      ?As      9.313    52.41
N 31011  5 NHiNCHIUAJIS    I2.P7~ 2,42"  2,82)   3.3W    3,3.1                                                                            a      bf    . v
a                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  a                 .                                  a   -                                             -1GS.4
olEA TrAw                        12 II    I      i'      1         IS  45.9   WO.  70.0  71.0  91.0   206    230    210    220    240   1  .J'v            3.iC     2.0s       Z."/     J.1
101 37L036    I   I?    i:' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    i4  iS? ... .v0  9.    7.0 80 8.11                  30     10     20      2';       .1       1... ...            2...........
. ..............................92                                                                                (7     Iad    .O       a.     a,..    ~..         ...       .*3       *
N~ASA Ih1  12                            12    143      147    32 1' oS.0   87.0   73.   95.0  850.0   38  30 21A       300   240   2400.      3.4    10.50    12.00f   79.5&    618.
13118Nu lUlL , WCPI.T[             30    3;      tI     17      Iq  'S.b.0              43    .O a    4220        220543 1  a                  1.6          It 5a..41           ?.    3795.01



:MIN go  (SI)                     :   70       8      s         9.      102 145.0   7s.0e  ?'S.0   es.e   ".0 1                lA     11t1    2e    24nt  ,I.90              .t. 1    .'         li.1      23.2t
hl. VAX                           1   51       12      5 e       0 ee      1  4e0.0   b.    $4.0   3S.0  '90.0    254    214    260    30             N0O       7.?7       O.M9      33.eA      h..0       17.01
WIJN  11E011                      *   22       r-      21      2;          Iu4.0    6.0.0   10. 0   0.0   e1.0u    2;;    210    a.s          220    2401       2.4?       M.se         40 a      - es      5.71
(h43     mIS                          21      22      24       h        27  5t.0   60.0   10.0   00.0   85.0    121    too    200    240    240                I.49       2.38   ; .;t.          4.,f       5.54
10ll3t  . s                       I   21      22       24      a.       27   47.t.  443.0  ts..   ,s.0   65.0:  II    1O            200    24       240       IA3.t6     3.         :.1:       4 4        S.SI:
;t151 5411                        t   2?       21      A0       3?       14 b3.0  t1 30    MD.0   0t.0   9S.0    IJ3 I        300     103    200    240         2.10       ..02       3.71       S.12       6.S4
*:3ItAM. 333                          17      22      23       2:       .4't    .0 t     t 0   41.0 e.e      "1-l     14S    1      10    100  0              0 .9.      1.1"       1..        2.4         5.02
tWs113                                 14      n'      1'       r3       2t1    1.0 :.0 e     t A    't:   00.0:  13          140   3l0    100    240 1         0."       Dt."        1./'       2.Sr       4. US
,11 fl m                               10      It      1;       I1       I;.  ;   e   &          t..a  o    0..   a1. 1 1 .     0    170    Joe    200          0.1;       1. It.      . t.      2.1t2       3.2i
*                      .           ,                                        4..                                                                                                                                 . ,t.  .....,,........ ... ...........    .  ....
tiWA   12 NUNICIPALIJUS       11,01  I.ObO   1.216   1,330   1.424                                                                                      179.2t,    19/.48    2.47   3U.23    492.17
-- - - -- - -    ..................                                         ......... ....................                                                                                           .    ... ...
,I:  W   (SI)                      23,517  3.58  4,211    4,62     4,971 1 93.0   94.0   98.0  300.0  300.0    e0    320    340    8.   400:   13.24  1,100.33  1,401.7?  fw..e8   1.990 0o0
A sag (SI)                        :  sos     414    M15       n7       5Sk  28.0   61.0   90 0   IS.0  100.0    210    250    300    310    400;  1;.25    130.43    193.01    2. N4 .                    33.4M
:   11IVA1  2 U1IC)I'3I1ES   :4,097  4,272  4,922   1,41    5,821 1 t                                                                                     :I,ltJt.4    1,2.3l.;;    144.22  1,'t:.76  2.iiB.40 :
................... .                                                                                                                                         .... ....... ;  ------ ..    -
:   toAlt 37 NUNICRALI3ES         :$,zl7  8.Q4  91,92  10,910  11.772 2                                                                                   :   I,t        2.21       ?,'99'       .'1      4.4i2:
.... ...1 ............ .                                                                             ...... ............... .... .....  ..... ..



- 33 -
Zable k11
SUMMARY OF THE ESTIMATED LAND SALES
EXCHANGE RATE : 1 $=740.00 ('88.4.7)
-----:-----------RMA-S
:                         ~~~~~~ ~~AREA   :ESTDIATED PRICES::
:(1000 Mr2)!MILLION WON :MILLION US $:
: ________ --          - . - - -- .        :            :             :
.        ~~TOTAL             :2,358.8 : 223,763 :           302.38::
:*.LANDS FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES   :497.9 :  S2,824                44.36 :. 
(FOR SEWAGE TEREAMBN  PLANT,:::::
: SUBWAY TEMNINAI.):::::
::INUSTRIAL AIREAS             :1,143.5 :      101,671 :      137.39::
::COMMECWIA  AREAS             : 429.8 :        46,981 :       63.49::
:*.RPSIDENTIAI AREAS            : 287.6 :        42,287 :       57.14::
a                               :          a             a             a                :
*~~                          ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~~ .  . a.  
a~~                          ~     ~      ~~ . a  a. 
*~~                           ~    ~      ~~ .   . a. 
*                               .~A        .             .~O           . O).OOI ~    
: :---:j                 :      -    - : a:.,UI  



- 34 -
Tablg 11-
KOWCO: FINANCIAL STATEENT
(U MillIion)
1983       10n4        1985     1is6         1987      10m
Operating revenes                 96,98?    166,521    297,056    38,190    481,084    588,061
Lee": Operating *xpensee        S0,461    144,281    270,046    262,891    869,887    472,708
(Including Admlaletration)
Operating income (1...)            0,626     12,240     27,208     8,290       77,607    115,346
Nonoporatng Income (net)           2,790      4,003       -150    -10,602    -25,9060    -10,108
Net I nome                         9,819     17,143     27,0W8      24,607     51,787    90,165
X operating ratio                  90.3        92.2       90.9       88.9        62.2       60.4
Net encom as percentage
of e"q ty                         1.68       2.62       8.78       8.24       6.87       10.50
Current aceet                    116,422    165,500    106,800    289,852    825,495    448,616
Other all                         8 32,248   27,471     34,600    161,6S      111,484    128,000
Net fIxed a*ets                  909,48     068,277  1,164,002  1,100,700  1,202,608  1,242,538
Total    ete               1.056.181  1.100.257  1.85.0019 1.662.215  1.699.407  1.819.146
Curren  liabilities               88,104    187,826    146,166    212,577   241,457    270,851
Long-term debt                   S87,816    862,908    520,998    595,025    681,242    576,546
Resorvo                           10,420     11,757     10,8O       18,117     14,274     19,060
Equity                           572,289    654,266    715,497    761,496    812,524    944,168
Total EcGuit, nd LiabiIlties    1.06.181  118.10.257  1.805.001  1.562.215  1.099.497  1.819.148
Curret ratio                        1.82       1.18       1.8         1.18       1.J5       1.61
X Debt/(debt + euity)               40.4       88.7       42.1       48.9        48.7       87.9



191'Ot    gtltOt     *     t     ,1       6O'      O          tTO'O &Wa    no' s                                                          W      too 's   0    "Olt t' 
St'4                                                                                     UUO e.00'E t0910    O9t     ' "O's    M's    6,             t    an        O'S           eme"gt JO-
C>e'U     ai9       LW*6    e9'm os                'g,          -       wg        'p*t            PaL                095'    09~ aer    US.       W@ OW             *0.I* .
~~~~~~~~~~~a'                                     onet-    VW#                 go,      s.                 Go        M'                abl       M'                       "s^E
Ot # t'tl mr                              t mr              SWmastS'as                            os 9t              O         M' 9              le 9"              T 0 
@1        ueh1    ,n::M'                STU'UZ   Ote'i '  O'S  0 Wsgt    'ort  so't   So'9t    us,M    ot                     awl"    't          5       15        15t5
Qf'6      9S'0t    "916v    onO's       OwIfe   U"Olt*    0016         mz 9sS'np 9 e *UOt   galaSI    itwS    o9't    919'    "sloe   "S'                   >9tO's M,  1a-
su'*    moa         asra   9*:egs    ewist    aoU'9 ws    9Osro                 m sto'$t0n   5W'5t   UWf    W51  t'L          ZEro   9S'U   SOr9E   -W5             C5
ore       555*m    s'         Sales   10o0    soss    Owl=             MSr    sWaut  ssro:   turst  :ss's    MLr             ginat   um,"   Gar          owl"    TWins       sm"I Om 
ofi 19144-
*timid    uetwi    maim                            eue    ,UeeE    mesS        1ems Iwd    BBU,4    *"M    ,Lttj _            d- *tWid   Bemmed  6so
va  e  OAmM          snA1      o
$Mae" low Orvem N-Bebfr tn.] -m



- 36 -
MAP OF THE NAKDONG RIVER BASIN AREA                      f 11JL
'% + \, ~gast+ ~  
+i js /
~~I   -
SOUTHMSE~
KAW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



- 37
MAP OF THES PROJECT LAYOUT
;1~~~~~i/        7~~~~       II.
a~x               I   -b
-_ 'v!
AGE 
*   j91     n    tX   \ ~~~~~~Geojonq Ctleon
s/ ,. ' ISLA/   eSUSAN CITY
Additional reclamation
.    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
*      ~~~~Estuary
4.  ..            9    9   3       ?  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ _   .,-AOMffjj



- 38 -
1A  -:A-
41
W   A               -*        v-                                   #Q1
(43-44%' 



- 39 -
P ECT CHLTON
KOREA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN  2350-KO)
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORNATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan T1tle                      Auco                    WroVat       Status            Comments
Chungju    Multipurpose   To meet various water needs in   1979           Completoed    Financed    detailed
Project (Ln. 1666-KO)       the HMn Basin.                                              engineering of Makdong
Barrage, which was
constructed under Ln.
2350-Ko.
Water SUDply I               To expand water supply in five      0982     Completed    N a i n    p r o j e c t
(Ln. 2072-Km)               citles (Daegu  Gangju, Masan,                               objectives  achieved;
Changweon,   Jinhae)    and                                see PCR of 2127189.
strengthen sector institutions.
Metropolitan Water Supply   To expand  water  sypply  for        1965     Ongoing       implementation    is
Project (Ln. 2491-KO)       Seoul  Metropolitan   Region,                               satisfactory.    Loan
study  tariff  policies  and                               closing  expected  by
Region's sector organizations,                             6/30/90,   6   months
and imcrove ISUACO's financalt                             tater than planned to
performance.                                               alloi for completion
of disbursement.
Hanag and Taegu Water   To   expand   water   sipply             1985     Ongoing       lmplementatfon    is
Supply Project (Ln. 2615-    vai table    for   Kyeongnam                               satisfactory.    Loan
KO)                         Province and the City of Taegu                              closing  expected  by
and    to    improve   sector                              6/30/90 as planned.
coordination.



* 40 -
Table 2. Prolect Timetable
Date              Date               Date
Item                 ~~~~~Planned       Revised           Actual
Identification                                                    12/82
Preparation                     -                                 02/83
Appraisal Mission             04/83                               04/25/83.
05/13/83
Loan Negotiations             11/10/83                            09/06/83
09/10/83
Board Approval                01/17/84          12/15/83          10/18/83
Loan Signature                  -                 -               10/21/83
Loan Effectiveness            04/84               -               01/11/84
Project Completion            06/30/88            -               06/30/89
Loan Closing                  06/30/89            -               06/30/89
Issues Raised during the Project Crcle
At Droject identification, the main issues were as follows: (a) the
environmental impact of the barrage design, which had to be approved by the
Office of Environment (OOE); (b) water pricing policy; (c) the need for advance
contracting of works; (d) the still unsatisfactory financial performance of the
Pusan Water Bureau; and (e) the inclusion of leak detection and institutional
improvement programs under the project.
During grolect preparation, discussion continued to center around the
project's environmental impact and the need to improve cost recovery by raising
tariffs, as well as (a) the justification of constructing both the barrage and
the Hapcheon Dam, which were previously regarded as alternative solutions to the
salinity problem; (b) whether or not to include the Pusan works under the Bank-
supported project; and (c) the inclusion of financial performance covenants for
KOWACO.
At apxruisal, it was resolved that (a) the Hapcheon Dam was justified on
the basis of projected water demand but would not solve the salinity problem;
(b) although close Bank involvement in implementation of the Pusan works was not
needed, a covenant would be included in the Loan Agreement that these works would
be completed by December 31, 1987; (c) letters of understanding on payment for
water usage between KOWACO and the chief project beneficiaries, Pusan and
Ulsan/Onsan, would be provided as a condition of Board presentation; (d) progress



- 41 -
in implementing the First Water Supply Project would be improved; and (e) to
minimize changes in the estuarine ecosystem due to the operation of the barrage
and closure of the right river branch, safeguards were incorporated in the
barrage design, controls were placed on construction operations, an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Barrage was approved by the Office of Environment,
which would monitor the projects's environmental impact during implementation
and review a separate EIA prepared for the use of reclaimed land (which had been
reduced from 600 ha to 190 ha), and, to protect the wetlands, a zone in the
estuary would be made a Natural Environment Preservation Area (to prohibit land
reclamation near the mud flats, which was the main threat to the bird sanctuary),
as a condition of the Loan Agreement.
During negotiations, the Government and the Bank discussed and agreed on
a number of actions, the most relevant being: (a) to reduce the proposed loan
amount from US$120 million to US$87.5 million due to lower than expected bids;
(b) to carry out measures aimed at accelerating progress on the previous project;
and (c) to finance the Pusan complementary works under funding arrangements found
satisfactory.
During groiect sunervision, the key issues were: (a) results of studies
on water and dams tariffs (carried out under Loan 2491-KO), that would influence
the financial performance of water supply entities under the project; (b) the
lack of progress on the Janglim interceptor sewer; (c) plans of Pusan City to
develop part of the ecologically-important estuary area for industrial
development and the urgent need to protect this area under law; and (d) problems
in KOWACO's financial performance as a result of the 1988 drought.



- 42 -
Table 3. Loan Disbrs,emnts
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Dishursements
(US$ million)
EY84   FY85 i            F      Y89
Appraisal Estimate             8.5  21.1  39.4  62.2  76.5  78.5
Actual                         6.5  23.3  41.5  50.0  50.7  51.3
Actual as % of Estimate        76   110   105   80    66    65
Date of Final Disbursement:   March 23, 1989
Cancellations:    Cancellations totalled US$27.2 million due to savings resulting
from an increase in the exchange rate of the won from 780 to
880 to the US dollar, low inflation in the country, and highly
competitive bidding for equipment and consultant services.
The timing and amounts of the cancellations were as follows:
Date.                         Amount
(US$)
June 30, 1986                 13,500,000.00
April 20, 1987                 1,200,000.00
August 21, 1987               12,210,000.00
June 6, 1988                      58,666.82
October 18, 1989                 229,089.18
October 26, 1989              ,   13.692.37
TOTAL                      27.211,448.37



- 43 -
Table 4. groject Implemanaitlo"
A comparison of the planned and actual timetable for the various aspects of
project construction is given in Figure IIl-1 of Part 11 of the report. Actual
construction of the barrage took two months less than expected, and the barrage
began operations in September 1987, more than one year ahead of schedule. The
leak detection and institutional development programs were completed In September
1988, about two years later than expected, due to the expansion of the program
to cover more cities (including five cities in the First Water Supply Project),
delayed selection of consultants, staffing and funding constraints affecting the
leak detection program, and procurement of additional leak detection equipment.
Monitoring indicators used to assess the performance of KOWACO's Dams and Water
Divisions are given below.
A. KOWAQO Water Division. 19881
Eatimtd       Actua, I% ActualaEstimate
Raw water sold (million mt)               1,176        1,164          99%
Treated water sold (million mt)              54          190         351%
Total water sold (million mt)             1,230        1,354         110%
Water production (million mt)             1,295        1,425         110%
Accounts receivable (days)                   37           34          92%
Employees (number)                          670          957         381%
Raw water tariff (V/ton)                     52.2         40.4        77%
Treated water tariff (W/ton)                 59.0         87.5       48%
Total average tariff (W/ton)                 55.3         46.9        85%
Working ratio (%)                            59.0         76.0       128%
Contribution to investment (8)               57.0         10.0        NA
Rate of return (%)                            5.0          3.0        60%
Debt service ratio                            7.0          1.7        24%
Debt on debt plus equity (%)                 19.0         18.0        95%
1Projections were made up to 1990; data for 1988 are shown here to indicate
actuals. However, low water flows during one of the worst droughts in the
century (and a related reduction in power sales) hurt KOWACO' a financial
performance in 1988, reducing the rate of return on both the water and dams
operations to 3% (rather than the 5% covenanted).   This problem cannot be
addressed by tariff increases. KOWACO' s financial performance will be normalized
as soon as water flows (and power generation) return to less critical levels.



. 44 -
B.  RQVAC9Dms DivigiP. 129
Estimated        tual    Actualastimte
Municipal and Industrial
water sold (million tons)               2,158        1,706          79n
Power sales (GWh)                         1,747        1,145 2        65S
Irrigated land (ha) 3                     8,500        2,094         25%
MANAGEMENT
Accounts receivable (days)                   29           37         1288
Number of Employees                         555          539          971
FINANCIAL
Average Rates:
Nun. & ind. water (W/ton)                   7.8          6.0        77%
Power (W/kWh)                              43.7         37.3       85a
Working ratio (a)                            14.9         25.9       174%
Contribution to investment (%)               80.2        -26.7        NA
Rate of return (%)                            5.0          3.0        60%
Debt service ratio                            1.5          0.6        40%
Debt on debt plus equity                     18.0         37.0       205%
2Due to one of the worst droughts in this century.
3Government decided not to bill farmers for irrigation water taken from
rivers.



- 45 -
Table 5.   golegt Costs a A   Financing
A.  1SeEt L.
Detailed comparisons of the estimated and actual costs of the barrage are given
in Part II, Tables III-4 and 111-5.   The completed barrage cost US$212.43
million, or US$45.23 million more than expected, due to higher -han expected
land compensation costs and additional works carried out unde% the project,
including establishment of a flood forecasting system, increased land reclamation
(by 140 ha), full development (water, roads, sewerage, etc.) of the land
reclaimed, and facilities for operation and maintenance of the barrage. The leak
detection and computerization programs cost about US$5.3 million or two thirds
of the original estimate due to lower than expected consultant costs. The total
project cost was US$217.73 million, about 30% more than the US$167 million
originally estimated.
_Aoraisal Estimate           Actual Costs
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
- - - (US$ million) - -    - - - (US$ million) - -
Nakdong barrage           53.0     67.9    120.9    46.04    59.01   105.05
Land and compensation     27.0       --    27.0    37.56         --    37.56
Land development            --       --        -    22.27      9.54    31.81
Flood forecasting           --       --       --    0.64       5.72     6.36
Project management        1L_.              I I.    22.70              31.65
Total Cost                            I"  1l2 167.   l22.21    83-22   212A43
B. Zrgit FinancLng
Sourg3                       Planned                  Actual
(US$ million)     S     (US$ million)   %
Bank loan                  78.50        45         51.30       23.6
Domestic                   23.52                              Z 166.41  76.4
Total                     1Z5.72       100        217.71      100.0



- 46 -
Table 6. ProJeSt ResuLta
A. Diregt Benefits (resent Value. Discounted at m0u)
Indicators                  Appraisal    Closing Date   Estimate
Estimate     hstimaat       at Full
Dat
Savings in the alternative cost of    W 65,941         W 66,000       Same
transferring   the   water   intake   million          million
revenues from water sales
Sale of reclaimed land                  U 42,600       V 97.000        Same
million        million
Land appreciation due to project road  W    12,155   W 19,000          Same
million        million
Increased agricultural productivity    W 23,183        W 19,000       Same
million        million
Power sales                             W 5,080        Not (-omputed   Same
million
B. Economic Imnact
Economic                      Appraisal
Rate of Retur                 Estimate           Acta
Base Case                     24%                   20%
108 Decrease in Benefits      22%                   17%



- 47 -
C. Calcutation of Actuat Econanie Rate of Return
ECONONIC RATE OF RETURN                 BILLION WON 1983 PRICES
INVESTMENT      OPERA     TOTAL  Incre-       -- -------TOTAL   ENEFITS----------                    NET
TION -   EXPEN- mantl                            (Billion Wbn)                    BENEFITS
YEAR   Nakdong Other               SES  Vater
Barrage                           sold    Water   Reloca-   Land  Bridge  Agri-  Power  TOTAL
VWd                                       Revenues tion      Recla-         culture         BENE-
Land                              Million           Intakes mation                          FITS    Billion
Reclam.                             cu m                                                              Won
11      2]       3]               4]      51       6]      7]      8]       9]     10]
_______________.-.____________ _________________________________________________
1983    4.83                      4.83             0.00            0.00                             0.00   -4.83
1984   27.37                     27.37             0.00            0.00                             0.00  -27.37
1985   46.65                     46.65             0.00            0.00                             0.00  -46.65
1986   49.69                     49.69             0.00   25.67    0.00                            25.67  -24.02
198?   51.59             0.40    51.99             0.00   25.67   26.42                            52.09    0.09
1988    6.62     2.10    0.50     9.22   342.3     1.83   13.50   39.54   9.43   -7.20    -        57.10  47.87
1989    2.85     2.10    0.50     5.45   388.5     2.08   13.50   56.22    9.43   -6.00    -       7S.23   69.78
1990    0.00             0.50     0.50   437.5     2.35           37.93    1.30   -6.00    -       35.57   35.07
1991                     0.50     0.50   489.7     2.62           28.71    1.35    3.80    -       36.49   35.9"
1992                     0.50     0.50   529.8     2.84                     1.41    5.30    -       9.55    9.05
1993                     0.50     0.50   571.8     3.06                     1.46    6.80    -      11.33   10.83
1994                     0.50     0.50   615.7    3.30                      1.52    6.80    -      11.62   11.12
1995                     0.50     0.50   630.7     3.38                     1.58    6.80    -      11.76   11.26
1996                     0.50     0.50   630.7     3.38                     1.64    6.80    -      11.83   11.33
1997                     O.5N     0.50   630.7    3.38                      1.71    6.80    -      11.89   11.39
1998                     0.50     0.50   630.7    3.38                      1.78    6.80    -      11.96   11.46
19"                      0.50     0.50   630.7    3.38                      1.85    6.80    -      12.03   11.53
2000                     0.50     0.50   630.7    3.38                      1.92    6.80    -      12.11   11.61
2001                     0.50     0.50   630.7    3.38                      2.00    6.80    -      12.18   11.68
2002                     0.50     0.50   630.7     3.38                     2.08    6.80    -      12.26   11.76
2003                     0.50     0.50   630.7     3.38                     2.16    6.80    -      12.35   11.85
2004                     0.50     0.50   630.7     3.38                     2.25    6.80    -      12.43   11.93
2004-2018                    0.50     0.50   788.4     4.23                     2.34    6.80    -      13.37   12.87
--------_-------------------------_-----------------------------__----------__-----------------------------------
Present      133        2       3      139                18      48      97      19      19       0      62       19
Value at 10X
THE  ECONWNIC RATE OF RETURN  (ERR) IS:       19.9%
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS FOR ECONOHIC             Economic
RATE OF RETURN                        Rate of Return
------_ ---------------------------_ -    --------------
Benefits reduced by 10%                    16.5%
Benefits Reduced by 20% for 10 Years       13.9%
Investment Cost Increased by 10%           16.9%
Investmt Cost Increased by 10%
and Benefits Reduced by 10            16.0%
11      ExcLuding interest during construction nd 5S  taxee.
21      Cmqtlementary road Investments to Link with the barrage bridge.
33      KOUMO's staff and maintenance.
41      From detailed water demand analysts provided by KOWACO, but reduced by 202 assuming that relocation
of Pusan and Ulean intakes (othervis  needed) cauld have saved 5 cu m/second.
51      At the 1988 tariff of V 5.95 per cu meter (V 5.36 per cu meter In 1983 prices).
61      As estimhted by consultants at apWraisal.  The reat coat would likely be higher due to the need to
provide caapmeation for houses end farms displaced by barrage construction.  Even if intakes were
relocated, a large part of the minimn flow would have to be used for flushing to prevent salinity in
the Nulgeu agricultural area.
71      Based an actual sales and budgets for 1990-91.
83      Sam as SAR, but inereased 302, a fraction of the increase in land scarcity.
9q      Sen  as SAR. no changes fn area or benefits.
101     Not carried out to sloplify the analysis.



- 48 -
D.  Financialint
Projection        Actual,     Revised
for 1988          1288 21     Projection
for 122
ISWACO Water Division
Raw water tariff (W/ton)                    37.0            40.4           47.9
Operational revenues (U million)          68,340          63,465        118,000
Operational expenses (V million)          40,450         48,210          82,500
Depreciation (W million) rev.             11,220           8,213         14,500
Net income (U million)                    16,400           3,937         13,100
Working ratio (%)                             60              76             70
Rate of return (on rev. assets) (4)            5               3              5
Capital expenditures (W million)          58,150          76,635        135,000
3 Debt service ratio                        10.9             1.7            2.0
X Debt/(debt + equity)                        18             2.5           13.0
ISWACO DAMS DIVISION
Power rate (W/kWh)                          27.5            37.3           44.0
Nun. and ind. rate (W/cu m)l                 2.4            5.95           6.30
Operational revenues (U million)          77,855          52,873        101,300
Operational expenses (W million)          12,247          13,702         26,300
Depreciation (W million)                  25,121         21,595          30,800
Net income (U million)                    27,602         -12,997         14,300
3 working ratio                               16           25.9            26.0
* rate of return (revalued)                    5             2.6            5.0
Capital expenditures                      77,529        214,741         185,000
* capital expenditures to net
fixed assets                                9              31             20
Debt service ratio                           1.8             0.6            1.9
Debt/(debt + equity)                          18              37             23
' 1988 was one of the worst drought years in Korea in this century.



- 49 -
E.  Studies
Studv                      Puripose            Status                       ImRact
StudY of Intertisdl Areas   To  detenmine  zon   in   Completed    NEPA (34.2 sq kIn) approved on Deceaber
Requiring Protection        estuary   to   be   mede                  31, 1988; part of the NEPA
Natural    Environment                   area converted to Natural Ecological
Preservation Area (NEPA)                 System Preservation Area on March 1,
to preserve bird habitat.                1989,   giving   maximm   ecological
protection under law.
Various   onvironmentat   To minimite  unfavorable   Completed    Eight   monitoring    points    were
iwpact studies              ecologicat  inpact  from                  established aroun  the barrage  and a
the barrage.                             system for monitoring ecological and
biological parameters was introduced to
ensure enviromnental protection. More
detailed operating rules were atso
estabtished for the barrag, to ensure
acceptable   water   quatity   until
completion of the Janglim interceptor.



- 50 -
Tbtle T. Status of Covenants
Coven1 SeeSDeaditne or                                   Statw
Loan
3.02 (a) and side    Goverment to provide lCO  with                            Satisfactory. ROAO received
letter              V 14 billion  in 1984 and 1V 1?11 35 biliLen by November 1984.
billion In 1985-86.
3.05 (b)             MUI  to  maintain  a  separate    By  June  30  of    Satisfactory.  Due  to  the
account for ita project components   each year.           satisfactory audits submitted
and  submit to  the Bank annual                           by Governt and the low cost
audit reports for the account                             of thl c-mpenent, dLstributed
between leak detection and
cOmputerisatlon Ln 35 cities,
no audit reports were needed.
4.02                Pusan   CLty   to   carry   out   DeceMber 31, 1987    Water   distrlbution   works
complementary   v a t e r                                 completed ahead of schedule
productLonldistrLbutLon   and                             but Jan81i interceptor sewer
sewerage works,                                           vill not be completed until
1990 due to Pusan's financial
ceastraLnts.
4.03 (a)            )DC  to  establish  a  Natural   Jive 30, 1985             Satlifactory.   Achievd   oan
Enviroent Presemration Area Ln                            December  31.  1988  due  to
the Nakdong estuary.                                      resistance of Pusan City ad
lengthy approval process for
the NEPA. A moratorium on
construction froze developmnt
In the area even before
approval of the IEPA.
4.03 (b)            OO  to  establish  a  Natural    December 31, 1985    aImbr    protection   under
0cological  System  Preservation                          Korean  law  given  to  the
Area  to  protect  the  Nakdong                           estuary area Ln February 1989.
estuary.                                                  ThL was the first area given
this protection.
Pr oject
2.02                K1WA0O  to  use  comultants  for    Continuously           Consultants    worked
project    supervLslon    and                             satisfactorily   throughout
environmental monitoring                                  project period.
2.06                1019400 to prepare an inspection    December 31, 1986    Satisfactory
and maintenance program for the
Nakdong Barrage.
4.02        B        OXACO to submit to Bank annual   Yearly                   Satisfactory
audit reports.
4.03                109W4A0 to revalue the flied assets    December 31, 1984    Satisfactory
of its Water and Dams DivLsions.
4.04                KOWACO Water and Dams DiviLsons to    Yearly               Rates  of  return  were  as
earn a rate of return on revalued                         follows:   for   the   Water
assets of 42 Ln 1984-85 and SX                            DLvisLon, 4.9S in 1985, 5.21
thereafter,                                               In 1986, 6.92 Ln 1987 and 2.8X
in 1988, the fall-off due to -
severe drought, large assets
entering into operation and
the take-over of an uneconomic
syste (em n Gang); for the
Das DLvLion, 2.5S Ln 1985,
4.01 In 1986, 9.01 Ln 1987 and
2.61 in 1988, again due to the
drought.
4.05 (a)      B      0XU400 to maintain debt service    Yearly                 Greatly   Ln   excess    of
ratio of less than 1.3.                                   requirement,  other  than  in
1988 for the Dams DLvLsion
because of the drought.



- 51 -
4.06                MUMCO to pIOYL4 "dsto& 5-y          Yehly by Aug_t    SStifaatOZ        wt18  cmputer
fLimal  PJet31.                     J                   pr= i   pre           by  Bak
staff.
4.07 (a)            =a 0 to estab   a project td          rch 31, 1984       fystem etabliad ia Aust
_sgmt maIteriug sytam.                                   1964  ed  reports  produae
p.rlcdLcsUy.
4.07 (b)            WMACO to subLt progres reports    Y"rly                  Satsfactory
by Augst St en February 28 of
each year.



- 52 -
Table 8. Use of Bank Resgource
A.  Staff I="n
Stage of                         Planmed                            Revised                 Final
Project Cycle                    HQ       Field                HQ        Field        HQ        Field
Through Appraisal                n.a.        n.a.              n.a.        n.a.    47.7           8.2
Appraisal through
Board Approval                   n.a.        n.a.              n.a.        n.a.    12.3            -
Board Approval --
Effectiveness                    n.a.        n.a.              n.a.        n.a.       1.8        0.2
Supervision                      n.a.        n.a.              n.a.        n.a.    59.1          9.0
TOTAL                   n.a.         n.a.              n.a.        n.a.   120.9         17.4
B. !issuon
stage of        Nenth/  NUAber of    Days        Speciatization  Performoance       Type of
Project Cyele    Year  Persons        fn Ffeld  Representedc    Rating Status6    Problem7
Through Appraisal
03/82   2               1        FKA.EGR
06/82  1                2        E6R                      -
10/82   2               3       EGR,FIA
CIdentification) 12/82   1               10      FIA
(Preapprafsal)  02/83   3                10      FMA,EGR,ER               -
(Appraisal)     05/83   2                21      FUA,EGR
To Effectiveness 11/83   2               1       FMA,EGR                  1
supervision
1.      03/84   2               3        FNA,EG                   1
2.      11/84   2                5       FVA,EGR                  1
3.      02W85   2                1       FMA,EGR
4.      11/85   2                3       FIA,EGR                  2       ENV,FNA
5.      03/86   3                21      FNA,EGR,EGR              3       EKV,.PER
6.      11/86   2                2       FNA,EGR                  I
7.      03/87   2                3       FKA,EGR                  3       ENv.OPER
8.      08/871                   1       f                        .A
9.      05/88   2                3       FMA,EGR                  1
10.     10/88   1                1       MA                       2       EwV
11.     02/89   2               2        FMA,EGR                  I
12.     06/89  1                 1       FIA                      I
fNA   f finanial anelayst; EGR * sunfeipal engineer.
6  Ratfng refers to overalt project status; I a no significant problem, 2 * moderate problems. 3  maJor
problem but adequste attentfon is being given to them by iptlementing agency and 4 a major problems ihich are
net being adequately addressed.
7 EN a relatfng to projJect' e wiroruental ilpact; FM a relating to project's finwicirng or financfal
impact; OPER u relating to operational problems of the barrage caused by delayed construction of intereeptor
seuer by Pusan City.



