Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3084-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 8, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3084-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association  has received a letter dated May 5, 1998 
from the Borrower describing a nine-year program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to modernize its health sector and social security 
system (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Development 
Fund (the NORDIC Fund) a credit (the NORDIC Fund Credit) in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to $3,500,000 to assist in financing Parts 
A.1 and A.5 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the NORDIC Fund  Credit Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the NORDIC Fund;
(D)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Norwegian Agency 
Page  2
for Development Cooperation (NORAD) a grant (the NORAD Grant) in an 
amount of NOK25,000,000 to assist in financing Parts A, B and C of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NORAD 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and NORAD;
(E)
NORAD and the Association intend to enter into an agreement 
(the NORAD Administration Agreement) making arrangements for the 
Association to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the 
financing to be provided by NORAD under the NORAD Grant Agreement and 
regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with 
such financing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 with the modification set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
In Section 9.06, the first two lines of paragraph (c) are modified 
to read:
"(c)
Before completion of the Project, but in any event 
not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as 
may be agreed for this purpose".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Hospital" means a hospital which is eligible as a 
beneficiary of a Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject (as defined below) in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined 
below);
(b)
"Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject" means a subproject for 
the rehabilitation and/or equipping of a hospital eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual (as defined below);
(c)
"HRD Subproject" means a training or technical assistance 
subproject eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined 
below);
(d)
"Indicators" means the impact, performance and 
implementation indicators set forth in a supplemental letter of even date 
herewith;
(e)
"INSS" means 
Instituto Nicaragüense de Seguridad Social, the 
Borrower’s social security institute established pursuant to the INSS 
Decree (as defined below);
(f)
"INSS Decree" means the Borrower’s decree law No. 4-90 
published in La Gaceta (as defined below) No. 87 on May 8, 1990 as 
Page  3
amended;
(g)
"INSS Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and INSS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(h)
"
La Gaceta" means the Borrower’s official gazette;
(i)
"Management Agreement" means any compromiso de gestión, an 
arrangement to be made between MOH and the director of a public hospital, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, setting forth 
their respective responsibilities in the operation of such public 
hospital;
(j)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(k)
"National Assembly" means the Borrower’s legislative branch;
(l)
"NORAD Grant Account" means the account to be established by 
NORAD for purposes of the NORAD Grant and to be administered by the 
Association under the terms of the NORAD Administration Agreement;
(m)
"Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, setting forth procedures for implementation of all parts of 
the Project and the selection criteria for Hospital Rehabilitation 
Subprojects and HRD Subprojects, as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(n)
"Primary Health Care Model" means the health care model 
approved by Ministerial Resolution No. 6-95 on January 11, 1995 as 
amended in its coverage by Resolution 19-98 dated March 16, 1998;
(o)
"Project Management Units" means the units referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(p)
"SILAIS" means any of the MOH’s regional health units with 
jurisdiction over the following departments and autonomous region: 
Matagalpa, Jinotega, Chontales, Managua, Madriz, Nueva Segovia, Región 
Autónoma del Atlántico Sur, Esteli, León and Chinandega and, if the 
Association shall agree, any of the SILAIS with jurisdiction over the 
following departments and autonomous region: Boaco, Carazo, Granada, 
Masaya, Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte, Rivas and Río San Juan;
(q)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Subprojects" means Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects or 
HRD Subprojects; and
(s)
"Women Centers" means centers for the provision of pre-and 
post-child birth, family planning, and other reproductive health services 
to women in isolated or remote areas.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR17,900,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the NORAD Grant may 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the NORAD Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the NORAD Grant.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
allocation and withdrawal of the proceeds of the NORAD Grant shall be 
governed mutatis mutandis by the provisions of the General Conditions.
(c) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars: (i) for the Credit two separate special deposit 
accounts (the MOH Credit Special Account for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project and the INSS Credit Special Account for Part D of the Project); 
and (ii) for the NORAD Grant one special deposit account (the NORAD Grant 
Special Account for Parts A, B and C of the Project) in its Central Bank, 
or a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association including, in the event any 
account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2003 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 
15, 2008 and ending May 15, 2038.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on May 15, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
Page  5
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Minister of MOH, or any person he or she may 
designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project.
(b)
The Director of INSS, or any person he or she may designate 
in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions in respect of Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project 
through MOH with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate economic, financial, 
administrative, management, health and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources 
Page  6
required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
shall cause INSS, pursuant to the provisions of the 
INSS Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out Part D of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate economic, financial, 
administrative, management and environmental 
practices, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable INSS to carry out Part D of the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of Part D of the Project by INSS.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Part D of the Project to INSS under a subsidiary agreement 
to be entered into between the Borrower and INSS, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the INSS Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the INSS Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the 
NORAD Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part D of the Project shall be 
carried out by INSS.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under the 
General Conditions and under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
include in each annual budget proposal submitted to the 
National Assembly for calendar years 1999 through 2002 a minimum amount 
of counterpart funds for the financing of the Project of $375,000; and
(b)
advance, from the amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and no later than the first day of each quarter, into 
revolving accounts for MOH and INSS respectively, amounts sufficient to 
cover the counterpart funding requirements for the Project during such 
quarter.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, until completion of the 
Project: (a) maintain a management unit in MOH for Parts A, B and C of 
the Project; and (b) cause INSS to maintain a management unit for Part D 
of the Project, both staffed by professionals with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association, assisted by qualified personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain and cause INSS to maintain, policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
Page  7
accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of the Program, 
including the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than November 30 of each year, until completion 
of the Project, furnish, and cause INSS to furnish, to the Association 
for its approval, an annual operating plan for the implementation of 
their respective parts of the Project during the upcoming twelve months, 
such plan to comprise:  (i) the main activities to be carried out under 
the Project during the respective year; (ii) the objectives, and expected 
results or outputs of such activities; (iii) the corresponding cost 
estimates and budgets, including the specific allocations of financing 
out of the Credit Account, the NORAD Grant Account, the NORDIC Fund 
Credit, other international sources and the counterpart funds; (iv) the 
proposed revisions to the Indicators, if applicable; and (v) the relevant 
institutional arrangements and responsibilities;
(c)
prepare and cause INSS to prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and furnish to the Association on or 
about January 15 and July 15 each year, commencing January 31, 1999 a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program, during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date;
(d)
review with the Association by January 31 and July 31 each 
year, or such later dates as the Association shall request, the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Section; and
(e)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that Subprojects are 
appraised, selected, carried out, financed, monitored and supervised in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts A, B and 
C of the Project, and shall cause INSS in respect of Part D of the 
Project to:
(i)
establish and maintain a financing management system 
including records and accounts; and
(ii)
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable 
to the Association adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
Page  8
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, and shall cause INSS in respect of Part D of the Project to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than four months after the end 
of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion 
on such financial statements, records and 
accounts and 
a report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account and the NORAD Grant Account were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause INSS:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
Page  9
appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic, management and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its office 
buildings, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
INSS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the INSS Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that INSS will be able to perform 
its obligations under the INSS Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)
the INSS Decree shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of INSS or its ability to carry out Part D of the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under the INSS Subsidiary Agreement;
(d)
the Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out Parts B.2 and C.6 (b) of the Project;
(e)
all conditions for the disbursement of the NORDIC Fund 
Credit under the NORDIC Fund Credit Agreement shall have failed to be 
fulfilled by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Association may 
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement;
(f)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the 
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
NORAD Grant or the NORDIC Fund Credit shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreements 
providing therefor.
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such 
agreements; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
Page  10
conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
(i)
MOH and INSS shall have appointed in their respective 
Project Management Units a procurement and a 
financial specialist; and
(ii)
MOH shall have appointed in its Project Management 
Unit: (A) a coordinator each for Parts A, B (other 
than B.2), and C (other than C.6 (b)) of the Project; 
and (B) a coordinator for Parts B.2 and C.6 (b) of 
the Project, 
all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association;
(b)
MOH and INSS shall each have put into operation a system, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the administrative, financing and 
accounting control of their respective parts of the Project and shall 
have employed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
MOH and INSS shall have adopted the Operational Manual; and
(d)
the NORAD Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of 
the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The date October 6, 1998 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  11
Ministerio de Finanzas
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre Sacasa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the NORAD Grant 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the NORAD Grant, the allocation of 
the amounts of the Credit and the NORAD Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, THE FONT WAS CHANGED AND TABLE TOO BIG 
FOR DATABASE)
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
Page  12
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred by MOH on account of Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower;
(d)
the term "Printing and IEC Services" means the cost of 
printing and distribution of materials for all Parts of the Project, and 
implementation of workshops and seminars, media advertising and other 
costs related to the information and communication campaigns to be 
carried out under Parts A.1 (a) (ii), 2 (b) (i), C.7, and D.2 (b) of the 
Project; and
(e)
the term "Training" means the cost of tuition fees, travel 
and per-diem of trainers and participants, training materials, rental of 
facilities and equipment and other costs related to training to be 
carried out under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR2,230,000 may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after January 12, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Subcategory 2 (a) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless MOH shall have issued a 
resolution, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, with a 
revised organizational structure of MOH;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Subcategories 2 (b), 3 
(b), 4 (b) and (5) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
unless the INSS Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into by the parties 
thereto; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (6), 
(7), and (8) and Subcategories (2) (a) and (c), (3) (a), (4) (a) and (5) 
(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule that the NORDIC Fund has 
agreed to finance under the NORDIC Fund Credit.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods and works, and services in respect of which prior 
review of contracts is not required pursuant to the provisions of Part 
D.2 of Sections I and II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, respectively; 
and
(b)
training and incremental operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve: (a) the efficiency 
and effectiveness of the Borrower’s institutions providing health 
services; and (b) the equity of access to health care.
Page  13
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Health Care
1.
Primary Health Care
Implementation of the Primary Health Care Model in the SILAIS, 
including, inter alia:
(a)
(i) Provision of medical equipment and pharmaceutical 
products and supplies to the SILAIS; (ii) carrying out of information and 
social marketing campaigns on the PHC Model; and (iii) training of SILAIS 
staff on the PHC Model, the management of the SILAIS, and pharmaceutical 
management; and
(b)
rehabilitation and in selected cases construction, and 
refurbishment, of facilities of the SILAIS.
2.
Nutrition
(a)
Carrying out of a pilot program to avert malnutrition 
through the provision of: (i) food supplements to pregnant women and 
children aged 6 to 24 months in selected poor municipalities; and (ii) 
micronutrients to women and children, and for food fortification.
(b)
Carrying out of: (i) an information, education and 
communication campaign on nutrition and breastfeeding; (ii) 
epidemiological surveillance of nutritional deficiencies; and (iii) 
provision of technical assistance to local manufacturers to improve their 
food production skills.
3.
Women Centers
(a)
Carrying out of a feasibility study for setting up Women 
Centers in selected areas.
(b)
Construction, furnishing and operation of about 12 such 
Women Centers.
4.
Epidemiological Surveillance
Rehabilitation and equipping of MOH’s epidemiological surveillance 
facilities.
5.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of technical assistance for the monitoring and evaluation 
of the activities in Part A.1 through A.3 above.
Part B:
Hospital Modernization
1.
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation, auditing, 
monitoring and evaluation of Management Agreements.
2.
Carrying out of Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects.
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the strengthening of hospital 
management in selected hospitals.
Page  14
Part C:
MOH Modernization
1.
Provision of technical assistance for:
(a)
The implementation of strategies for acquisition and 
distribution of pharmaceuticals through direct contracting and delivery 
by the private sector.
(b)
The design of procedures for the control of drug quality, 
drug registration, and rational use of drugs.
(c)
The development and implementation of a pharmaceutical 
surveillance system.
(d)
The promotion of the use of generic drugs, including the 
development of training materials, publications and dissemination of 
manuals and guidelines thereof.
2.
The provision of technical assistance for:
(a)
The review, consolidation and systematization of MOH’s 
administrative norms.
(b)
The preparation of laws addressing: social security, MOH 
organization, health insurance, hospitals, health professionals, 
pharmaceuticals and private health providers.
3.
Carrying out of seminars and workshops aimed at disseminating, and 
reaching consensus on, the content of the laws referred to in Part C.2 
(b) above.
4.
Provision of technical assistance and training to MOH’s staff for 
the improvement of MOH’s financing, including coordination of donor 
financing, transfer and resource allocation systems.
5.
(a)
Provision of technical assistance for the development of a 
management information system for MOH dealing with: (i) service 
production, epidemiology and health situation analysis; and (ii) 
financial controls for MOH.
(b)
Provision of the equipment and software required therefor.
6.
(a)
Provision of technical assistance for the development of a 
human resource policy for MOH, including staff development plans, and 
training of MOH’s management and technical staff on management and 
administration related subjects.
(b)
Carrying out of HRD Subprojects.
7.
Carrying out of a national information, education and communication 
campaign on the Borrower’s program of modernization of its health sector.
Part D:
INSS
1.
(a)
Provision of technical assistance for the review of INSS 
current accounting practices, including a financial analysis of its 
accounts, revenues, reserves and expenditures, aimed at separating the 
health, pension and workmen’s compensation accounts of INSS.
(b)
Development and acquisition of software, and acquisition of 
hardware, for a management information system for INSS.
Page  15
(c)
Training of INSS’s managers and technical staff in matters 
related to Part D.1 (a) and (b) above, and in management and 
administration related subjects.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) studies to identify ways to increase coverage 
of health insurance by INSS; and (b) an information, education and 
communication campaign on the coverage of health services by INSS.
3.
Development of eligibility criteria for the authorization and 
control of private and public providers of health services and training 
of INSS’ staff related thereto.
4.
Carrying out of studies on geriatric health services, catastrophic 
illness coverage and occupational health and risk prevention.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Vehicles, medical equipment and pharmaceuticals may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
Page  16
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Except as provided in Parts C.5 and C.6 hereof, works and 
printing services shall, and
(b)
goods (other than medical equipment, pharmaceuticals and 
vehicles) estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods, 
printing services and works under the provisions of this paragraph, the 
Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
International Shopping
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract and other goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent 
each for vehicles and other goods, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods (other than vehicles) and printing services estimated to cost 
less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
6.
Direct Contracting
Works costing $10,000 equivalent or less per contract but not 
exceeding $130,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
Page  17
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to:
(i)
each contract to be procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts B.1  and C.1 hereof;
(ii)
(A) the first contract for goods, works and printing 
services, and (B) any contract for works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, to be 
procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 
hereof;
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts C.3, C.4, C.5 and C.6 hereof, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the 
execution of any contract under shopping procedures 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract awarded under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
Page  18
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph: the short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for the design and implementation of the system included 
in Part C.5 of the Project may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
Page  19
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the MOH 
Credit Special Account and the NORAD Grant Special Account, Categories 
(1), (6), (7) and (8) and Subcategories (2) (a) and (c), (3) (a), (4) (a) 
and (5) (a), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and in the case of the INSS Credit Special Account, 
Subcategories (2) (b), (3) (b), 4 (b) and (5) (b) set forth in the said 
table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the 
NORAD Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the NORAD Grant Account, as the 
case may be, and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of: (i) the MOH 
Credit Special Account to $1,600,000; (ii) the INSS Credit Special 
Account to $175,000; and (iii) the NORAD Grant Special Account to 
$250,000; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
(i)
the MOH Credit Special Account shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $800,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to eligible Categories plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the 
General Conditions for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  
$2,700,000;
(ii)
the INSS Credit Special Account shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to eligible Categories
plus the total 
amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General 
Conditions for Part D of the Project 
shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of 
$300,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Page  20
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and the NORAD Grant Account, 
as the case may be, and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and the NORAD Grant 
Account, as the case may be, and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out 
of the respective Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account 
and the NORAD 
Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account and the NORAD Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the NORAD Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the NORAD 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Special 
Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
Page  21
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that 
Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account and the NORAD Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the NORAD Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories for that Special Account shall follow such procedures 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
and the NORAD Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, and the 
NORAD Grant Agreement, including the General Conditions.
