              Document of
           The World Bank




                                       Report No: 32448

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (TF-20582 IDA-30840)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.9 MILLION
         (US$24 million equivalent)

   TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA




                FOR A

HEALTH SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT




              June 18, 2005

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Cordoba
                                  1 Cordoba = US$ .06
                                      US$ 1 = 16.31 Cordobas

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ATM     Procurement and Inventory System
BHSP    Basic Health Service Package
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIPS    Centro de Insumos para la Salud
        (Center for Pharmaceuticals)
EMP     Health Service Private Providers
        (Empresas Médicas Previsionales)
FYIP    Five Year Implementation Plan
FONMAT  Fund for Safe Maternity and Infancy
HSMP    Health Sector Modernization Program
IADB    Inter American Development Bank
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Agency
IEC     Information, Education and Communication
INSS    Social Security Institute
NBC     National Competitive Bidding
MCH     Maternal and Child Care
MINSA   Ministry of Health
MIS     Management Information System
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NBF     Non-Bank Financed
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NDF     Nordic Development Fund
NGOs    Non-Governmental Organizations
NHP     National Health Plan
NORAD   Norwegian Agency for Development
OED     Operation Evaluation Department
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PDOs    Project Development Objectives
PHA     Primary Health Areas (municipalities)
PHC     Primary Health Care Model

PMSS     Health Sector Modernization Program
         (Programa de Modernizacion del Sector Salud)
PROCOSAN Community Health and Nutrition Program
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RAAN     North Atlantic Autonomous Region
RAAS     South Atlantic Autonomous Region
SIAFI    Financial Administration Module of MIS
SIGFA    Integrated Administrative and Financial Management System
         (Sistema Integrado de Gerencia Administrativa y Financiera)
SILAIS   Regional Health Districts
SIMINSA  Health Management Information System
SIPLA    Planning and Production Module of MIS
SWAp     Sector Wide Approach Program
WC       Women Centers




                             Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                           Country Director:     Jane Armitage
                            Sector Director:      Evangeline Javier
                     Acting Sector Manager:      Cristian Baeza
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Jesús Maria Fernandez

                                         NICARAGUA
                                  NI HEALTH SECTOR II


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution                                                   44
Annex 9. Project Components after 2001 Credit Amendment                          55
Annex 10. Trigger Indicators and Status of Compliance                            56

Project ID: P035753                                                  Project Name: NI HEALTH SECT II
Team Leader: Jesus Maria Fernandez Diaz                              TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: NI HEALTH SECT II                                        L/C/TF Number: TF-20582; IDA-30840
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (76%); Central government administration (16%);
                            Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (8%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Nutrition and food security (P);
                            Gender (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S); Law reform
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1997                                     Effective: 08/31/1998                12/07/1998
     Appraisal: 01/11/1998                                         MTR: 09/01/2000                  04/24/2002
      Approval: 06/02/1998                                      Closing: 02/28/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MINSA; REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/INSS
                      Other Partners:      Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD), Nordic Development Fund(NDF)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid J. Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Cristian Baeza                                 Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Jesús María Fernández                          Armin Fidler
ICR Primary Author:             Maria R. Puech Fernández;
                                Andrea C. Guedes; Jesús María
                                Fernandez Diaz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Health Sector Modernization Program (HSMP), financed by a two-phase Adaptable Program Loan
(APL), had as its objective to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and equity of the Nicaraguan health
system by: (i) strengthening first level care and nutrition; (ii) modernizing the hospital network; (iii)
developing the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MINSA); and (iv) supporting the social
security reform. To reach its goals, the program was expected to be implemented over a period of nine
years (1998-2007), whereby sector reforms and targeted investments would be gradually and
geographically expanded to the whole country.

The first phase of the APL, the object of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR), shared the same
objectives of the overall Program and was designed to be implemented during the 1994-1998 period.

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revision was made to the original project development objective.

3.3 Original Components:

The project was organized into five components and a series of subcomponents. The total cost of the
Project was estimated at US$32 million (of which IDA would finance US$24 million equivalent; the
Government US$1.5 million, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation --NORAD-- US$3
million, and the Nordic Development Fund ­NDF-- US$3.5 million). NORAD resources would support all
but the Social Security component (Component D). NDF resources were limited to financing two of the
subcomponents of the First Level Care and Nutrition Component (Component A.1 and A.5)

Component A: First Level Care and Nutrition (US$11.1 million equivalent or 34.68 percent of total
project cost). This component was comprised of five subcomponents:

(1)        Extension of Integrated Model of Primary Health Care (PHC) and Maternal and Child Care
(MCH). This subcomponent was to finance scaling up the PHC/MCH interventions developed during a
previous IDA-financed health project in Nicaragua (Health Reform Project Credit 2556-NI) so that the
coverage area increased from seven to 17 health districts (SILAIS). Specifically, this subcomponent would
finance the necessary primary health care inputs in those areas.

(2)      Targeted Nutrition. This subcomponent would finance: (a) a food supplementation program; (b)
micronutrients and food fortification; (c) Information, Education and Communication (IEC) on nutrition
and breast feeding; (d) epidemiological surveillance of nutritional deficiencies; and (e) technical support for
food production that would be utilized in the supplementation program.                 Except for the food
supplementation program which targeted 8 out of the 17 SILAIS, all other interventions were to be
implemented nationwide.

(3)     Women Centers. This subcomponent would finance the extension of women centers according to
NGO models that experienced successful implementation in various regions.

(4)     Epidemiological surveillance.      This subcomponent was designed to support epidemiological
surveillance through: (a) the rehabilitation of the national biological bank; and (b) the construction of local


                                                     - 2 -

facilities for the production of biological larvicides to control vector-transmitted diseases, particularly
malaria and dengue.

(5)      Monitoring and evaluation. This subcomponent would support monitoring and evaluation of the
interventions financed under this component.

Component B: Hospital Modernization (US$7.7 million or 24.06 percent of total project cost). This
component was organized into three subcomponents supporting three key initiatives:

(1)      Management agreements. This subcomponent built upon the experience of the previous project,
whereby SILAIS budget allocation was linked to annual management agreements with agreed upon output
benchmarks related to productivity, quality, and client satisfaction. This subcomponent would finance
training and consulting services to support the gradual implementation of similar agreements in the public
hospital network, as well as auditing monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the agreements.

(2)      Hospital Rehabilitation Fund. This subcomponent, also built upon the successful experience of the
previous project, would support the establishment of a competitive emergency rehabilitation fund to finance
civil works and equipment. The Fund was designed to finance around 130 subprojects to address the most
urgent needs for peripheral hospitals.

(3)      Hospital Management Demonstration Projects. This subcomponent would finance training and
consulting services to introduce a hospital management pilot project in five public hospitals selected on
pre-established criteria. The idea behind this subcomponent was to design and implement an integral
management support system, including introducing state-of-the-art management systems according to
criteria of productivity, quality, and cost-effectiveness.

Component C: Modernization of MINSA (US$6.8 million or 21.25 percent of total project cost). This
component sought to improve the institutional capacity of MINSA with respect to management of budgets,
inputs (pharmaceuticals and supplies), regulations, management information systems (MIS), strategic
planning, and human resources. In addition to strengthening the legal and regulatory function of MINSA,
the component would also support the equitable access of the uninsured population to a basic, high quality
and cost-effective health service package. The component was organized into seven subcomponents.

(1)      Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. This subcomponent would finance an array of activities,
the most noteworthy being:           (a) training, consulting services and information, education, and
communication (IEC) campaigns for the operational follow-up of a set of policy studies that were carried
out through the previous health project; (b) communications work following the passage of the
Pharmaceutical Law; (c) technical assistance to initiate legal reforms of the public drug and medical supply
agency (Centro de Insumos para la Salud ­CIPS); (d) improvements to the regulatory framework for drug
manufacturing, registration, information and quality control; (e) establishment of national drug surveillance
system; and (d) development of a generic drug policy for MINSA.

(2)      New organizational and regulatory framework. This subcomponent would finance the following
activities in three priority areas: (a) training and consulting services to support the new structure of
MINSA at all service levels according to core functions; (b) consulting services and IEC campaigns in
preparation for key legal proposals; and (c) introduction of management agreements and review of civil
society participation, which MINSA would design, oversee and monitor.




                                                      - 3 -

(3)      Health financing. This subcomponent would support the improving of the mechanism of financing,
transfer and resource allocation in the sector.

(4)      Strategic planning. This subcomponent would finance a periodic health situation analysis and
health technology assessment on one hand and investment reviews in the health sector on the other hand.

(5)      Management Information System (MIS). The project would finance equipment, training and
consulting services for the completion of the MIS in the following areas: (a) service production,
epidemiology and health situation analysis; and (b) finance (including budgeting, accounting, invoicing and
cost analysis). It would finance an update of the Human Resource database, and the establishment of a
national communication and server platform to interconnect MINSA facilities (hospitals, SILAIS and large
health centers). This MIS would be implemented in three SILAIS (Masaya, Esteli and Granada).

(6)      Human resources. This subcomponent would finance: (a) training and consulting services to
implement the main recommendations of a Study on Human Resource Development and Health Labor
Markets; and (b) a competitive fund for human resource development and training to finance subprojects in
line with the priorities established by MINSA.

(7)      Information, Education and Communication (IEC). This subcomponent would support the design
and implementation of an IEC campaign to disseminate MINSA's Health Sector Modernization Program to
the various stakeholders in the sector and to the general public at large. It would also help strengthen the
capacity of the department within MINSA in charge of IEC.

Component D: Social Security Institute (INSS) Reform (US$3.0 million or 9.37 percent of total project
cost). This component was structured into the following three subcomponents:

(1)      Institutional modernization of INSS.   This subcomponent would support: (a) separation of the
health social security fund from workmen's compensation and pension accounts; (b) development of a new
MIS in support of the administrative and accounting requirements; and (c) training and IEC.

(2)      Expansion of health insurance.       This subcomponent would finance technical assistance to
implement the recommendations of a study on accreditation and service quality that was financed under the
previous project. Additionally, it would finance new studies in the areas of geriatric health services and
catastrophic illness coverage.

(3)      Scaling up of workmen's compensation pilot.       This subcomponent would finance consulting
services and IEC campaigns to address occupational health risk prevention, particularly in regards to
accidents.

Component E: Project Management and Coordination (US$3.4 million or 10.65 percent of total project
cost). This component would finance the creation of two implementation units (PCUs), one at MINSA and
another at INSS, in order to implement and supervise the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project was amended in April of 2001, at which time some of the components were revised. The
amendment came as a result of:




                                                    - 4 -

·       Hurricane Mitch (October 1998). In the aftermath of the hurricane, there was a significant
increase in the number of donors providing support to the health sector. This afforded additional resources
to the sector ­particularly for primary health care and food distribution-- creating duplication of finance
for project activities. Furthermore, given the already complex IDA-financed project, donor-supported
health projects put additional strain on MINSA's weak institutional capacity.

·       Project complexity and scope. During the first couple of years of project implementation, it
became clear that the Project was too complex and too geographically dispersed, particularly given the
weak institutional capacity of MINSA.

As a consequence, the GON decided, and IDA concurred, to integrate a subset of the project activities and
concentrate its implementation on a limited number of geographical areas, while eliminating activities that
would receive financing from other donors. Additionally, it was decided that the project should pilot
different approaches to achieve health sector goals, before opting for a national approach which could be
implemented in the second phase of the Program. Specifically, it sought to:

·       target primary health care activities to the extension of basic services to underserved rural
        populations in six regional health districts (SILAIS), while testing alternative methods of financing,
        organization, and delivery;
·       substitute geographically distinct project activities in favor of a network approach, aimed at
        strengthening primary and secondary care within defined pilot areas;
·       reorient hospital interventions to four pilot facilities, with an emphasis on management reform;
·       link the provision of equipment, infrastructure rehabilitation, and training to management
        improvements and specific results through performance agreements;
·       eliminate food distribution activities while testing an alternative model focusing on
        community-based, child growth promotion;
·       intensify activities to improve MINSA's capacity to implement core functions; and
·       strengthen the INSS health insurance scheme through expansion of the benefits plan and coverage
        to low income groups.

Table 1 summarizes how the aforementioned changes were reflected under each of the original components:

                                 Table 1: Components and 2001 Amendment
Component                          Reason for change                    Change
Component A     First level care
and Nutrition
A.1 Integrated Model of            ·       Concentrate                  ·      PHC interventions
Maternal and Child Care            interventions geographically         concentrated in six SILAIS and
                                   ·       Link investments to          in 13 health centers (13
                                   performance                          municipalities)
                                   ·       Pilot different approaches   ·      Basic Package of Health
                                   to achieve PDOs                      Services (BPHS) by MINSA to be
                                                                        provided by NGOs
                                                                        ·      Providing technical
                                                                        assistance for improving delivery
                                                                        and management of PHC at
                                                                        MINSA facilities in targeted
                                                                        areas



                                                       - 5 -

A.2 Targeted Nutrition             ·        Other donors providing     ·        Elimination of food
                                   financial support                   supplements
                                                                       ·        Piloting a community
                                                                       health and nutrition program
                                                                       (PROCOSAN) based on growth
                                                                       promotion and education
A.3 Women Centers                  ·        Align the output number ·           Reduction of the number of
                                   with the project implementation     Women Centers from 12 to 10
                                   schedule
A.4 Epidemiological Surveillance*·          Concentrate on number of ·          Activities discontinued
                                   interventions
Component B      Hospital
Modernization
B.1 Management agreements           ·       Concentrate on number       ·       Subcomponent was not
                                    of interventions                    eliminated but there was not an
                                                                        output number set for additional
                                                                        Management agreements to be
                                                                        signed with hospitals, besides the
                                                                        four pilot hospitals
B.2 Hospital Rehabilitation Fund ·          Link physical investments ·         Replaced open and
                                   to performance                      competitive nature of the
                                                                       subprojects with investments in 4
                                                                       pilot hospitals
B.3 Hospital Management            ·        Focus and reduce extent of Reduced number of hospitals to be
Demonstration Projects             interventions                       intervened from 5 to 4, other
                                                                       hospitals to get lighter technical
                                                                       assistance directly from the
                                                                       intervention hospitals ("hospitales
                                                                       tutelados")
Component C      MINSA
Modernization
C.2 New Organizational and          ·       Support management          ·       Introduction of
Regulatory Model                    modernization by linking            performance-based incentive
                                    allocation of resources to          pay-scheme, to be applied to
                                    performance                         those Hospitals and SILAIS
                                                                        undergoing modernization
                                                                        activities
Component D       INSS Reform
D.1 Institutional Modernization     No change                           No change
D.2 Expansion of Health            ·        Faster than expected       ·        Expansion of population
Insurance                          implementation of activities        coverage and benefit package
                                                                       ·        Updating the capitation
                                                                       payments to providers calculations
D.3 Workers Compensation*           ·       Focus and reduce extent     ·       No activities were carried
                                    of interventions                    out
* These two subcomponents were not modified or eliminated in the amendment. However, their activities were
not carried out during the project.

As part of the reorganization of the project, MINSA also agreed with IDA and IADB to unify the technical
implementation units (PCUs) for both agencies into a single PCU, though maintaining separate
administration (procurement and financial management). The consequence was the formation of a farther


                                                       - 6 -

reaching program, the Nicaragua Health Sector Modernization Program (PMSS, for its acronym in
Spanish), financed by each of the banks' projects and collecting funds from four agencies (both Banks plus
NORAD and NDF). Since then, project programming was done synergistically and simultaneously for
both operations, as well as supervision. In fact, the PMSS has shown pivotal in fostering and supporting
the health sector policy and institutional development since 2001.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR rating: Unsatisfactory.

The quality at entry of the project is rated as unsatisfactory, with a few caveats. If available, a more
appropriate rating would be marginally unsatisfactory. A QAG assessment on the quality at entry of this
project was not performed. The Program was consistent with Nicaragua's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS Report Number 17496, March 1998) and its design greatly benefited from inputs from both the
Ministries of Health (MINSA) and Finance, whereby they agreed on core strategies, activities and
indicators for the Program. MINSA and INSS technical staff were part of the core project preparation
team, ensuring that its design was consistent with the Government's vision of the health sector reform.
Likewise, project preparation involved consultations with key stakeholders, including hospital and SILAIS
directors. Additionally, there were some consultations with other donors, leading to NORAD and NDF
agreeing to co-finance this project. Finally, project preparation attempted to build upon the experiences of
the previous health project (Credit 2556-NI) as well as the knowledge accumulated from the large number
of studies completed during its implementation, and it continued supporting monitoring and evaluation
efforts.

Despite the positive features mentioned above, there were key shortcomings in project preparation which
became very apparent during its implementation. In order to correct those problems and ensure that the
project met its development objective, it was amended in 2001. First, the project proved too complex,
included too many interventions --there were a total of 18 subcomponents, each financing another subset of
activities--and was geographically dispersed. This was partly done so that the project could support many
of the activities started under the previous operation, including expanding some of them. However, the
preparation team overestimated MINSA's institutional capacity to implement the project as it was
designed. Second, although the IADB was involved in Nicaragua's health sector and preparing an operation
at around the same time, there were no visible efforts to coordinate and complement the proposed
interventions at the design stage. This not only led to a duplication of efforts but also to further straining
MINSA's capacity to implement project activities. Third, while project preparation relied heavily on input
from MINSA's technical staff, due to the complexity of its design and the awareness of MINSA's weak
institutional capacity, it was decided that the project would be implemented by two strong PCUs (one at
MINSA, another at INSS). This led to insufficient participation of MINSA's line directorates into the
implementation of many project activities, compromising its implementation and sustainability. Finally,
project preparation was carried out before the previous operation was officially closed and an
Implementation Completion Report completed. While this is not a shortcoming in itself, the preparation
team missed the opportunity to review the actual lessons of that project before finalizing the preparation of
this project. In fact many of the aforementioned shortcomings were clearly identified and highlighted by the
ICR and its OED review.




                                                     - 7 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR rating: Satisfactory

As previously stated, the Project's objectives were to improve efficiency, effectiveness, and equity of the
health system by: (i) strengthening first level care and nutrition; (ii) modernizing the hospital network; (iii)
developing the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health; and (iv) supporting the social security
reform. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) lists eight different indicators as proxies of project
success. However, at the time the project was amended, the Government and IDA teams identified a more
detailed set of indicators believed to be better proxies and more measurable, particularly as the project
became more targeted. Thus, by project closing, there was a revised set of Key Performance Indicators
(some original ones, some new ones) to measure project success. Table 2 summarizes the information.

                Table 2: Project's Key Performance Indicators: Original and Revised

     Key Performance Indicators PAD                Key Performance Indicators After Amendment
20% increase in the rate of utilization of       70% of the population covered for basic health care as
primary health care services                     specified in the Management Agreements for 13
                                                 Primary Health Areas (municipalities).

                                                 80% coverage of prenatal care (at least 3 visits) in 13
                                                 Primary Health Areas.

                                                 8 therapeutical and clinic protocols being implemented
                                                 in 13 Primary Health Areas.
20% increase in prenatal consultations           50% births for high-risk pregnancies delivered
                                                 institutionally in targeted areas.
25% decrease in malnutrition rate for children   Community-based growth promotion program available
under 2 years in target areas                    for at least 90% of children under two in at least 240
                                                 communities.

                                                 Package of preventive nutritional services used by at
                                                 least 90% of pregnant women in at least 60
                                                 communities.
Modern management systems developed in 5         Four pilot hospitals licensed according to MINSA's
hospitals, with indicators of equity, efficiency licensing program ("habilitacion").
and quality established in the management
agreements                                       Reduced average length of hospital stay from 7 to 5
                                                 days; 20% reduction in waiting lists; and outpatient
                                                 surgery accounting for at least 50% of total surgeries in
                                                 4 pilot hospitals.
Core functions of MINSA developed,               Core functions in planning, human resources,
management autonomy increased at SILAIS,         monitoring and evaluation, and facility licensing
and hospital levels and resource allocation      developed in MINSA; management autonomy increased
improved                                         at targeted SILAIS and hospitals levels; resource
                                                 allocation to underserved areas improved.
30% reduction in reporting requirements due to   30% reduction in reporting requirements due to MIS
MIS implementation                               implementation.
Adequate legal framework for the sector in place General Framework Law for health sector in effect.



                                                       - 8 -

Number of policy holders under prepaid           50% increase in the number of INSS insured enrolled
insurance schemes increased from 150,000 to      in health scheme with respect to 1998 baseline.
200,000
                                                 50% reduction in cross-subsidy from MINSA to INSS
                                                 insured treated in MINSA facilities.


The ICR team concluded that the Project was satisfactory in achieving its objective of improving the
efficiency, effectiveness and equity of the Nicaraguan health system and of its outcome objectives.
Additionally, the project met all of the triggers to become eligible for the second phase of this APL (see
Annex 10). It should, however, be noted that the original project design was nationwide in scope, with
activities included in a wide area. Through the 2001 amendment, IDA agreed to target some of those
interventions to six regional health districts ­ SILAIS- (Chontales, Rio San Juan, RAAN, Nueva Segovia,
Matagalpa and Granada). Thus, the impact of those interventions was mostly in the targeted geographical
areas.

Expanding Access and Equity.          By expanding coverage of primary health care through innovative
approaches to targeted populations, which were also the neediest, supporting the framework of management
agreements (in a strategy to separate the functions of provision and financing of services) and testing a
methodology of contracting out the delivery of health services, the project promoted greater equity in access
to health services. Additionally, the project financed infrastructure and equipment improvements of 13
health centers with seriously compromised physical condition and obsolete or non-existent equipment.
Efforts were concentrated in those centers that were close to a hospital, putting emphasis in building
networks. The following are important achievements:

·        Reduction in maternal mortality from 21 deaths in 2001 to 7 in 2004 and infant mortality from
213 deaths in 2001 to 115 in 2004 in the total six selected SILAIS. Facilitating access to institutional
delivery for poor women living in remote areas has played an instrumental role in reducing maternal
mortality. By project closing 25 Women Centers (9 of them supported financially by the project) had been
created and had serviced over 3,000 pregnant women, many of them adolescents and indigenous. Maternal
mortality was reduced by 49% and infant mortality decreased by 20% in the health areas that implemented
those centers.

·        Expansion of health services to remote populations in RAAN and Rio San Juan. By project
closing, 11,000 people were receiving services from the NGOs. It is noteworthy that one of the targeted
populations has a large percentage of indigenous peoples. A 2004 evaluation of this intervention showed
that, in these areas of intervention, immunization rates reached 100 percent of the targeted population, and
prenatal care, institutional delivery and access to family planning services rates have improved significantly
(see Annex 1 for detailed data).

·        Reduction of malnutrition among children in targeted areas. As a result of the community
based health and nutrition program (PROCOSAN) implemented in 442 communities (versus a target of
240), there was a reduction of the prevalence of malnutrition as shown by a decrease in the rate of
insufficient growth from 36.3% in 2002 to 30.8% in 2004, and an increase in the percentage of children
exclusively breast-fed for the first six months of life from 72.2% in 2001 to 79.9% in 2004.

Improved system effectiveness and efficiency. In addition to improving the population's access to first
level care, the project was supposed to support the Nicaraguan hospitals in becoming more productive,
cost-effective and quality-oriented. Additionally, MINSA sought to improve the sector's efficiency by
establishing new institutional incentives and appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks for public



                                                      - 9 -

institutions and private sector growth in health provision and financing, while controlling for market
failures.  This, in turn, would also positively impact equity in service delivery.          The following are
noteworthy achievements:

·        Modernization of hospital network. The project mainly concentrated its interventions in four
pilot hospitals (Ocotal, Juigalpa, Masaya and Granada), which received resources, technical assistance,
and training to improve their physical infrastructure and implement modern management systems. A 2004
evaluation of these interventions concluded that they contributed to improve the indicators of the four
hospitals. For instance, perinatal mortality rates were reduced by almost 25 percent. Likewise, both the
number of cesarean-sections and the length of hospital stay were reduced (see Annex 1). Finally, patient
satisfaction (monitored for the last two years) has improved, surpassing the project's target of 30 percent to
reach an average of 80 percent, as per MINSA annual surveys. Other indicators of hospital productivity
did not improve consistently. The most likely explanation is that public hospitals in Nicaragua remain
unbalancedly resourced. In some cases even revamped facilities cannot operate to full capacity if they do
not have appropriate number of staff, access to pharmaceuticals and other necessary inputs.

·        Introduction of result-based culture, improved allocative efficiency and sound budget
execution according to principles of equity and cost-effectiveness. As part of MINSA's strategy to
strengthen the management of primary health care, it introduced annual Management Agreements. These
agreements linked budget allocation with agreed upon benchmarks related to productivity, quality, and
client satisfaction. By 2004 all 17 SILAIS were under management agreements, surpassing the project
target, which was only 6 SILAIS. Management agreements were also extended to 13 municipalities and all
pilot hospitals. These agreements have promoted a result-based culture with elements of monitoring and
evaluation, and better use of resources. The four pilot hospitals also introduced internal service agreements
with their line departments establishing production, quality and efficiency goals. Management agreements
are now part of the MINSA routine procedures having been extended to all SILAIS, local providers (the
so-called "municipalities"in Nicaragua) and public hospitals.

·        Modernization of legal and sector policy frameworks. Key legislation was approved during the
life of the project. In 2002, the General Health Law was passed, followed by its regulations in 2003,
contributing to creating a modern and clear legal framework for the sector. The law and regulations
established the: (i) organization of the national health system; (ii) principle of separation of the provision
and regulation functions, reinforcing MINSA's overseers role; and (iii) decentralized model of governance
and management. Additionally, substantial progress was achieved on national health policy. In 2004,
MINSA finalized the ten-year National Health Policies and its accompanying National Health Plan
(NHP) 2004-2015, which outlines how it will achieve the main health goals. Finally, also in 2004, MINSA
presented its Five Year Implementation Plan (FYIP), which provides details on how to operationalize the
NHP. It was agreed that the FYIP would serve as the operational framework for the sector wide approach
(SWAp) to which five multilateral and bilateral donors, including IDA, have pledged financial support so
far. This is a huge contribution to the future impact, sustainability and efficiency of fiscal resources and the
external funds contributing to the Nicaragua health sector.

·        Improved strategic planning and budgeting at MINSA. In 2001 MINSA outlined a Planning
Policy for the Ministry which contemplated a modern management system.                Such system integrated
financial budgeting and production programming and permeated from the central level to the SILAIS and
the municipalities. As a result, MINSA developed a solid needs-based, bottom-up budget system and
applied it during the last two budgetary exercises (2003-2004). As a result, MINSA budget execution
increased from 77 percent in 1999 to 99 percent in 2003. Additionally, as previously mentioned, this



                                                     - 10 -

system enabled MINSA to have enough information to sign the aforementioned management agreements
with all 17 SILAIS, 152 municipalities, and 32 public hospitals, causing all executing units to use a better
programmed budget, management commitments, and mechanisms to monitor them.

Supporting the social security reform. With project support, the INSS separated its core business functions
(health insurance, pension and workers compensation), trained its senior management staff, and modernized
its financial and administrative processes, successfully installing a fully operational MIS. It also sought
ways of improving its services by introducing a certification program for its network of health services
private providers (EMPs). By project completion, all 51 EMPs have been certified (45), closed (3) or are in
the process of addressing detected shortcomings (3). Finally, and most importantly, during the project life
INSS coverage of the health insurance program was extended from almost 260,000 beneficiaries in 1998 to
353,000 in 2004 (an increase of 36%). With project support INSS has extended coverage to 34,000
retirees (91% of the target universe), previously ineligible for health coverage, it has increased the age of
eligibility for INSS affiliates' dependants (from 6 years before project inception to 12-year old child
dependants), and has carried out actuarial and market studies to offer a voluntary health plan to informal
workers. The INSS health benefit package was also expanded to include preventive, primary and secondary
services previously excluded. Progress was done to reduce the cross-subsidy between INSS and MINSA
by expanding the coverage to parts of the population traditionally not covered, and therefore seeking
services at MINSA facilities.

4.2 Outputs by components:

In the discussion of output by component, it is important to mention that when the Project was amended in
2001, several of the output indicators were revised, including adding new ones and substituting others that
no longer reflected what the project activities were doing. This was particularly important as the Project
became more targeted. While most of the output indicators remained very similar to the original ones, the
scope of others was reduced to reflect the amended project. Annex 1 details this information. This section
of the ICR relies on the available data at project completion, most of which pertaining to the revised
indicators.


Satisfactory. Component A. Primary Health Care.

This component aimed to strengthen the first level of care and nutrition by supporting the following
initiatives: (i) an integrated model of primary health care, including maternal and child care; (ii) targeted
nutrition; (iii) women's centers; (iv) epidemiological surveillance; and (v) monitoring and evaluation. While
the 2001 amendment maintained the original component structure, some of the activities identified at
appraisal did not take place.


A.1      Integrated Model of Maternal and Child Care. MINSA opted for three initiatives to expand and
improve the delivery of primary health care services: (i) a fund for a safe maternity and infancy
(FONMAT), financed under an IADB project; (ii) a new management model for first care level; and (iii)
the expansion of coverage through hiring NGOs as service providers to deliver a basic health service
package (BHSP). The IDA project supported the last two.

The primary health care model was based on management agreements signed between MINSA, SILAIS
and institutional primary care providers within the SILAIS. Such agreements aimed at establishing an
incentive structure for the primary care providers, making them accountable for meeting coverage and
quality objectives. By project completion management agreements had been signed with all existing 17



                                                    - 11 -

SILAIS (compared to the target of six SILAIS) and 152 local providers. 28 health centers had been
rehabilitated and equipped (compared to the target of 13). 16 of the 28 health centers were rehabilitated
after the emergency declared in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch.

Services "purchased" through management agreements reflected the country's health priorities; emphasis
was placed on maternal and child care, most prevalent diseases and public health actions. The agreements
were negotiated annually and teams had been trained on formulation and negotiation techniques.
Monitoring of the fulfillment of the management agreements was carried out by the SILAIS and MINSA,
based on reports produced by the health centers. A monitoring and evaluation of management agreements
guide was prepared and disseminated by MINSA. Consultants were recruited as "change agents" to provide
continuous and on-the-field technical assistance to SILAIS on the implementation and supervision of the
agreements as well as on strengthening management tools of local providers. The role of the SILAIS grew
during this experience and by 2004, MINSA allowed the SILAIS to establish agreements directly with the
health centers in their territory. The implementation of management agreements contributed to better know
the health problems of the department; improved collection of indicators; better organization of the
patient's clinical records; improved quality of the service provided (through the elaboration and use of
protocols, referral mechanisms and complaints handling, consumers surveys and more rational use of
medicines).

A second line of intervention under this subcomponent was expanding health coverage to remote areas
through NGOs. MINSA used this strategy to pilot test different alternatives to better meet its goal in
primary health care. This strategy included entering into agreements with two NGOs in the areas of RAAN
(Siuna) and in Rio San Juan to provide a Basic Health Care Service Package (BHCSP) to the population in
these rural communities, where access to regular health services was poor. This pilot experience was
successful in expanding coverage and providing integral services to children 0 to 5 years of age and
women, including many from indigenous peoples. In general, the NGO's work was highly valued and they
ended up by offering more than the contracted services and reaching a larger number of the population.
Nonetheless, due to lack of resources, one of the contracts with the NGOs was discontinued after one year.

A.2      Nutrition. This subcomponent successfully supported the implementation of a pilot community
health and nutrition program (PROCOSAN), targeting children under two years of age and pregnant
women in poor rural areas. PROCOSAN supported the provision of iron, vitamin A and de-wormers for
children under five years of age, advice to mothers on nutrition and lactation, and weight measurement for
children under two to control growth and development. The program was implemented in coordination with
the health centers in those areas and trained community members to be nutrition and health promoters. The
project supported growth promotion activities in 442 communities. [See Annex 1, Table 3 for data on the
communities benefited by PROCOSAN pilot experience] Due to the success of PROCOSAN, in 2003
MINSA adopted the PROCOSAN strategy as the country's official nutrition strategy.              By project
completion, PROCOSAN had been institutionalized and adopted by NGOs and donors intervening in this
area--adding 1,413 new communities to the program.

A.3      Women Centers (Casas Maternas). This subcomponent successfully financed the creation and
functioning of nine women centers in rural areas. The centers focused on providing residence for an
average of two weeks to high-risk pregnant women living in remote areas, allowing them prompt access to
trained medical attention at birth delivery and for the newborn. Women centers were managed by NGOs
with heavy community involvement--a community committee participated in the center's decisions. The
project supported these centers by providing each of them with an average of US$6,000 per year, and they
sought financial support from other sources such as donations, small business initiatives and contributions
from the municipality.


                                                    - 12 -

The women centers have proven to be a cost-effective strategy to increase access to safe delivery for
pregnant women in remote communities. By project completion there were 25 women centers operating
across Nicaragua (not all project financed), and over 3,000 women had benefited from them.

A.4      Epidemiological surveillance. This subcomponent financed the rehabilitation and equipping of a
national biological bank and a toxicology laboratory. It also financed the purchase of vehicles and basic
public health laboratory equipment across the country to help control vector diseases, aggravated by
Hurricane Mitch. However, when the project was amended to better focus its activities, financing of
activities under this subcomponent was discontinued.

A.5      Monitoring and Evaluation. This subcomponent financed the monitoring and evaluation activities
of the PHC component by the PCU and MINSA. Its activities were adapted during the 2001 amendment to
provide support to MINSA's implementation of the project. Additionally, the subcomponent financed two
evaluations of the primary health care strategies ("Evaluación de las Intervenciones en Atención Primaria
en Salud del Programa de Modernización del Sector Salud" and "Evaluación de los Programas y
Proyectos en apoyo a la Atención Primaria") carried out during 2004. These two evaluation studies,
besides taking stock of the three different PHC strategies sponsored by the IADB and IDA credits, were
instrumental for identifying and fine-tuning the most successful PHC delivery models being implemented in
Nicaragua, (a total of 14 different models were analyzed). The results of these evaluations were used by
MINSA to define the PHC model to be financed by the second phase of the Program (supported by a
SWAp approved on April 5, 2005 by IDA).


Satisfactory.     Component B. Hospital Modernization

This component supported the implementation of the reform of hospital management, piloting a more
intense experience in four hospitals and supporting the use of management agreements in hospitals all
across the country, exceeding the expectations laid out in the PAD.

B.1      Management agreements.        The subcomponent supported the introduction of management
agreements in all public hospitals in the country, surpassing the project's target.       The management
agreements introduced performance-based as well as process indicators to measure progression towards the
basic management benchmarks (such as patient record keeping, hospital mortality and infection rate
measurement, production statistics and productivity indicators, basic cost accounting). These indicators
and the management agreements were negotiated yearly with MINSA. According to an external evaluation
of this component carried out in 2004, the management agreements were well designed, and their content
was adequate and sufficient to achieve the established commitments.

B.2      Hospital rehabilitation fund.   This subcomponent was designed to finance rehabilitation and
equipment of hospitals through a competitive emergency rehabilitation fund.         However, the project's
amendment eliminated the competitive mechanism and focused its geographical area of those hospitals
already receiving other project interventions. The rehabilitation interventions were linked to the process of
meeting MINSA recently established certification standards ("habilitación"), and the investments in
hospitals were therefore focused in upgrading the facilities to meet the above mentioned standards. By
project completion, MINSA had met the original target of financing at least 30 hospital subprojects, having
financed 31 rehabilitations in eight hospitals, including the four pilot hospitals under the hospital
management demonstration projects (Masaya, Juigalpa, Ocotal y Granada).




                                                    - 13 -

B.3      Hospital management demonstration projects: This subcomponent was designed to finance training
and consulting services to introduce a hospital management pilot model in five public hospitals selected
based on pre-established criteria. When the project was amended, it was decided that only four hospitals
would benefit from this component. The hospitals were selected through a rapid assessment of their
management and technical capacity. Together with the rehabilitation interventions, this subcomponent
financed intensive technical assistance and training in the following areas: (i) hospital management; (ii)
improvement of quality and productivity; (iii) nursing standards of care; (iv) MIS; (v) procurement of
hospital/medical materials; (vi) preventive maintenance of hospital equipment; and (vii) environmental
management. A baseline was elaborated at the time the subcomponent was launched and pilot hospitals
used it as a departing point to set their management agreement goals.

By project completion all four pilot hospitals had fully implemented the following management tools:
strategic plans, management agreements, internal service agreements, management table boards (MIS),
quality improvement programs, five to ten clinical protocols, nursing standard practices, and waste
management plans. Besides these four hospitals, other four hospitals, known as "hospitales tutelados",
received lighter technical assistance from the project. Despite variations across hospitals, this
subcomponent achieved its targets substantially.

Satisfactory     Component C. Modernization of MINSA

This component, organized around seven subcomponents, sought to improve the institutional capacity of
MINSA with respect to management of budgets, inputs (pharmaceuticals and supplies), regulations, MIS,
strategic planning, and human resources.

C.1      Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. This subcomponent intended to modernize the purchasing
of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and the stock keeping and distribution policies, to promote a
rational use of drugs and increase the use of generics. To avoid duplication of activities with the IADB
project, the 2001 amendment severely restricted the scope of this subcomponent and by project completion
it had only financed the acquisition of drugs in 2002 due to a critical shortage of pharmaceuticals in the
country. It should be noted, however, that key activities planned under this subcomponent were financed
with IADB funds and carried out in their entirety under the IADB-financed project.

C.2       New organizational and regulatory model (framework). This subcomponent financed: (i) a highly
participatory consultation and communication activities to elaborate and approve the General Health Law
and its regulations; (ii) the review, consolidation and update of administrative norms in the health sector,
resulting in an inventory of norms and decrees; (iii) preparation of new regulatory norms complementary to
the General Health Law and its regulation; (iv) development of standards for accreditation of service
providers; (v) elaboration and approval of food handling practices; and (vi) review of health facilities to
assert the status of the infrastructure and the elaboration of a manual with standards to certify health units
(Manual de Habilitación de las Unidades de Salud Pública).

C.3.     Health financing. This subcomponent supported improvements in the mechanisms for financing,
transfer, and allocation of resources in the sector.        It contributed to further decentralize resource
management to the SILAIS and provide MINSA with greater control capability over its operating budget.
It also supported the implementation of SIGFA (Sistema Integrado de Gerencia Administrativa y
Auditoría), as proposed by the MOF, in MINSA offices and SILAIS.

By project closing, the following had been achieved:


                                                     - 14 -

·        Greater decentralization of resources from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Health,
including a signed agreement transferring the authority and control responsibility over budget to MINSA.

·        Improved resource allocation and transparency of its use as a result of a new planning and
budgeting mechanism, and training on basic administrative and financial techniques to all staff in charge of
administrative and financial management at central level and key facilities (i.e. national hospitals).

·        Modernization and strengthening of MINSA's financial management with the introduction of new
financial administration and control systems, reorganization of the financial and administrative areas of
MINSA, and design and implementation of a manual identifying functions and responsibilities for
decentralized financial and administrative management.

·        Improvement in the management/financial capacity at local level, by decentralizing certain budget
responsibilities to local managers. SILAIS and local MINSA units are now responsible for execution of all
non-personnel budget allocated to them.

C.4.     Strategic planning. This subcomponent, along with the above subcomponent (health financing) and
the health information system subcomponent, supported improvements in strategic planning, generating
better links between health policies, planning, programs and budgets in MINSA. By project closing,
MINSA had carried out the activities laid out in the PAD, thus achieving those targets.

First, internally MINSA structured itself in a way that was more conducive to strategic planning. In 2001,
MINSA merged two directorates into a General Directorate of Planning and Development. Perhaps the
most important accomplishment of this component was streamlining health planning and budgeting in the
17 SILAIS, 32 hospitals and 152 municipalities, through on a new needs-based planning and budget
methodology adopted by MINSA. This new methodology was used to prepare MINSA budget in 2003 and
2004. This new participatory approach also benefits from the development and implementation, sponsored
by the project, of a new MINSA health information system (SIMINSA), which integrates a planning and
production module (SIPLA) with the financial administration module (SIAFI). This streamlined process is
the basis for results-based resource allocation, management contracts and the decentralization process. As
part of the effort, about 900 staff at different levels were trained in budgeting and planning to work towards
budget elaboration.

Second, this subcomponent financed key policy developments, including: (i) an evaluation of the National
Health Policy for the 1998-2002 period, which served as the basis for preparation of the new sector policy;
(ii) the National Health Policy and its National Health Plan (2004-2015); (iii) the Five Year
Implementation Plan (FYIP) to operationalize the sector policies; (iv) a Strategic Plan for MINSA
2003-2007; and (v) strategic plans for executing units (at municipal levels, SILAIS, hospitals). These
planning instruments, in particular the FYIP, have been used as the policy and operational framework for
the preparation of the second phase of the Program for which IDA financing is being provided under a new
sector-wide approach (SWAp), promoting alignment and harmonization of bilateral and multilateral
financial support to the sector national policy.

Third, under the project, consulting services were provided to support MINSA and strengthen its capacity
to monitor the national health accounts in accordance with an internationally accepted methodology. Two
economic studies were carried out: "Assessment of the supply of private health services" and an "Analysis
of health services offered through NGOs".



                                                       - 15 -

C.5       Management Information System (MIS). This subcomponent provided support for the completion
of the MIS started under the previous operation, by financing equipment, training and consulting services.
The project achieved most of the targets for this subcomponent. By project completion, the basic modules
(procurement and inventory, financial management, production, and human resource and planning) of
MINSA's management information system, known as SIMINSA, were properly working in the Ministry
and in the pilot units. The procurement and inventory system (ATM) had been installed and is working in
36 executing units, compared to the target of 23. The financial management module (SIAFI) was installed
in 21 units, compared to the 23 originally planned. The production system was installed in 24 units,
compared to the 18 originally planned. Additionally, hospitals and SILAIS personnel in the pilot units
were trained on the use and functioning of the MIS. The module supporting the planning process (SIPLA)
has been designed and implemented as well.

Several positive features of the SIMINSA were identified in the first years of use: (i) the system allows for
greater financial control and transparency in the use of resources; (ii) it promotes budget decentralization;
(iii) it facilitates the purchasing function in MINSA; and (iv) it improves the flow of resources from the
Ministry to the other health units. Nonetheless, users have identified the following areas for improvement:
(i) system complexity; (ii) reliability and discrepancy of data among sources; (iii) communication between
the Ministry of Finance and MINSA's financial systems; (iv) integration among the modules; (v) local
access to the system; (vi) local technical support for the equipment and for the programs. Activities to
address these areas for improvement are being financed under the second phase of the Program.

C.6       Human resources. This subcomponent aimed at improving MINSA's management, training and
development of human resources, balancing staff skills mix and distribution. Though progress was made,
this subcomponent fell short of its goals. A technical audit of MINSA's personnel was carried out,
evaluating the structure, composition, and allocation of human resources. By project closing, a Human
Development Policy document had been prepared, aiming to adapt the legal and regulatory framework for a
modern personnel policy. This policy document addressed recruiting policies, human resource planning,
performance management, and staff development guidelines. Additionally, a professional development plan
based on the existing, desired and missing professional profiles in MINSA was prepared by the Human
Resources General Directorate.         Nonetheless, by project completion neither the policy had been
implemented nor had MINSA reorganized its human resource payroll.

An additional intervention under this subcomponent was strengthening MINSA's management staff through
training in priority areas. By project completion, about 80 percent of the MOH management staff was
trained in areas such as human resources, strategic planning, programming and budgeting, thus meeting
this project target.

C.7       Information, Education and Communication Subcomponent: This subcomponent financed
communication activities in particular for the nutrition sub-component, the health national policy, the
decentralization policy and the campaign for disseminating the General Health Law.


Satisfactory        Component D. INSS Reform

This component sought to consolidate the INSS reform initiated by the past Government and supported by
the previous first project. It was to finance: (i) institutional modernization of INSS; (ii) expansion of
health insurance; and (iii) scaling up of workmen's compensation pilot. Overall, by project completion the
interventions under this component contributed to improve INSS's administrative and management systems



                                                    - 16 -

and processes.     It also contributed to improvements in the quality of care provided by designing,
implementing, and evaluating a certification program of INSS providers. Finally, and most importantly, it
led to an increase in coverage of INSS's health insurance program.


D.1      Institutional modernization. This subcomponent met its target of separating the health, pension and
workmen's compensation accounts and the development of a MIS to support the administrative and
accounting requirements of the core business of the INSS.

The project financed the acquisition of computers and software to support the installation of the new MIS
for each of the three departments within INSS and a new financial and administrative software package
(called "peoplesoft") was acquired and installed in 2001. As a result, administrative and management
processes have been modernized: financial statements--which had previously been routinely a year in
arrears--are now timely. The system for paying providers and INSS personnel is more agile and internal
controls and transparency have been enhanced.

The Project also financed technical assistance to develop a standardized, cost-based methodology for
setting and periodically revising the private health provider (EMP) capitation payments. The methodology
was developed shortly before the project ended, and had yet to be adopted by project completion.
Nonetheless, the new capita payment calculation mechanism is expected to improve the Previsional Health
Program's financial sustainability, transparency and operational efficiency, while helping to maximize
benefits for the insured.

D.2      Expansion of Health Insurance. This subcomponent successfully met its target of expanding the
benefit package to the entire eligible population. Overall, affiliation to INSS increased by 36 percent
between 1998 and 2004 (from 259,506 to 353,035 beneficiaries). The project financed actuarial, market
and other kind of studies to calibrate, explore and promote the expansion of coverage to the elderly retired
and the informal sector of the economy, and information, education and dissemination campaigns on the
INSS service coverage. At present, 91 percent of the eligible INSS retirees (34,000 out of a universe of
37,230) are covered.

Under this subcomponent, the INSS also developed the technical requirements to certify service providers.
Workshops and technical assistance were subsequently provided to implement the certification
methodology. By project closing, 45 health insurance companies were certified, three health insurance
companies had been closed for not passing the certification standards, and three more were in the process of
addressing shortcomings in order to become certified. As a result of this process, the INSS was able to
improve the quality of the services that were being provided to its insured population.

Finally, this subcomponent financed diagnostic studies to: (i) assess the skills and identify training needs of
EMPs to provide services to elderly, retired INSS affiliates; and (ii) train INSS personnel on aspects of
geriatric care, health promotion and prevention.


D.3      Scaling up of workmen's compensation pilot. This subcomponent was designed to finance
consulting services and education, communication campaigns to address occupational health and risk
prevention. However, by project closing no activities had been carried out.

Satisfactory      Component E. Project Management and Coordination. This subcomponent financed
two PCUs, one within MINSA and the other in INSS, to coordinate the implementation of project
components and donor's support to the national health program. The MINSA PCU successfully carried out


                                                     - 17 -

the preparation of the second phase of the Program, leading and coordinating donors' support for the health
sector. As mentioned before, since 2001 the technical PCUs for the IADB and IDA projects merged into a
single unit, reducing administration and coordination costs while allowing for better alignment of both
projects with the institutional policies.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional impact is considered substantial because it supported:

·        The creation of a modern legislative framework for the sector through the approval of a General
Health Law and its regulations.

·        The establishment of a long term policy framework for the sector through the elaboration of the
National Health Plan and the Five Year Implementation Program.

·        The harmonization of the many PHC programs being implemented in the country into a
streamlined, institutional model for delivery of primary health care services based on the success of the
initial programs. The new model allows for strengthened cooperation of private providers and the civil
society to address the special needs of the poorest communities. This model, to be scaled up by the FYIP,
also includes very successful strategies like the Women Centers and the Community Nutrition and Growth
Development Program (PROCOSAN), which were sponsored by the project.

·        The establishment of new participatory mechanisms and bodies for consultation and support with
the civil society (National Health Council or Consejo Nacional de Salud), donors (Mesa de Salud) and
autonomous regions (Foros).

·        The implementation of management agreements with all MINSA's departments and facilities,
promoting accountability and work by results.

·        The institutionalization of a financial management system, evaluated as strong by all SWAP
financiers, and expected to replace all parallel systems used by externally financed projects.

·        The development and operationalization of a bottom-up approach for the budgeting and planning
cycle based on local needs and performance.

·        Streamlining MINSA's organizational structure so it is better able to develop and enforce sector
policies in a coordinated manner. The positive impact of this was demonstrated in the budget formulation
and management agreement process, as well as in the preparatory phase of the SWAP.

·        The co-financing structure of the project (between IDA, NDF and NORAD) and the common
approach to program planning, execution and supervision with IADB since 2001 paved the way for the


                                                     - 18 -

larger donors coordination materialized in the second phase of the Program to be implemented between
2005-2009.

·        Similarly, the increasing reliance over the project's life on MINSA's line Directorates for project
planning, execution and supervision has contributed fundamentally to foster ownership and stewardship
capacity of MINSA over the sector.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Hurricane Mitch. In October 1998, Hurricane Mitch hit Nicaragua, among other countries, producing
great damages to infrastructure and the population.         As a result, several international donors made
resources available to Nicaragua, particularly for primary health care needs. Thus, the project was
amended to prevent duplication in the use of project resources.

Macroeconomic context.         During the implementation period, Nicaragua experienced a tight fiscal
situation. The national budget remained as a constraint to increase the allocations to the sector, affecting
the availability of counterpart funds for the project, thus threatening the sustainability of project activities.
The immediate result was that MINSA did not have always sufficient resources to carry out stronger
monitoring and supervision of project activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Inadequate budget management. In addition to the tight fiscal situation faced by Nicaragua in 2002,
MINSA faced a severe crisis due to an absolute lack of medical supplies across the system. This was due
to poor management of the budget resources at Government level combined with significant cases of
government corruption. As a result, hospitals and other service providers lacked the basic supplies to
guarantee medical treatment. As a response and with IDA approval, MINSA used project funds to
purchase medical supplies to respond to the crisis.

High turnover of Ministers of Health. During the life of the project, there were four health ministers.
The high turnover made it difficult to ensure continued support for the modernization program supported
by the IDA credit and to the continuity of actions that required strong political support (such as the
structural reform of the MINSA).

High rotation among key personnel. Nicaragua experienced high rotation in its key personnel, during the
implementation period of the project. This was particularly significant for hospital directors. As a result,
the improvement in management capacity achieved through training offered by the project to these
personnel did not remain in the intended hospitals, though it remained in the health system.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Continuity of key personnel in the PCU. Despite the high turnover of ministers, there was stability
among the PCU staff, ensuring satisfactory implementation of project activities. Furthermore, there was a
significant permeability among PCU and MINSA executive staff, (some professionals moved back and
forth from PCU responsibility positions to MINSA Directorates and vice versa), contributing to the
institutionalization and alignment of project activities.



                                                     - 19 -

Coordination between the PCU and MINSA's line Directorates. As mentioned under section 3.5, in the
early stages of project implementation there was not much coordination between PCU staff and MINSA's
line directorates. However, at around the mid-term review, the Borrower and the IDA team agreed on a
strategy to incorporate the directorates in the implementation of the project activities, giving them a greater
voice over the project implementation decisions. The IDA team worked increasingly close with the MINSA
line directorates and INSS officials, promoting a more trusting, technically-based, and productive
relationship between IDA and MINSA.

Existence of two PCUs within the project. The existence of two PCUs (for the MINSA part of the
project and the INSS) proved to be ineffective to improve sectoral coordination. Each PCU worked
separately, which was evident particularly when addressing cross-institutional sector issues. Nonetheless,
IDA was partially responsible for this, as it supported this decision during project preparation and took no
active steps to remedy it during implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost for project was US$ 31.41 million equivalent, of which US$ 23.41 million equivalent were
financed by IDA, US$1.54 million by the Government and US$6.46 million by the co-financiers. The
project closing dates were extended in two occasions and it finally closed December 31, 2004. Around
$200,000 remained unused by project closing and will be cancelled. A total of NOK1,677,663.11 (or
US$258.360 equivalent) was cancelled on May 20 2005. There was a reallocation of funds among project
categories in August 2003, as a result of all the changes in activities along the life of the project. This
resulted in changes in the cost-sharing as well. Funds for civil works were reduced, as rehabilitation and
construction needs decreased after Hurricane Mitch brought in an extraordinary amount of external
post-emergency funds; the equipment category was increased to allow for additional equipment to the pilot
health centers and hospitals, and the consultants services category was also increased to respond to new
priorities such as strengthening the management component of public hospitals and the supervision of the
Primary Health, and Institutional Strengthening components. The category for expenditures for printing and
IEC services was increased to support the communication campaigns undertaken by MINSA and that for
pharmaceutical products was significantly increased to finance the pharmaceuticals crisis in 2002.

Audit reports were presented on time and issues brought up were dealt with promptly. Nevertheless,
irregularities in the use of US$77,674 (from Government funds) were detected in 2004. An investigation
took place and MINSA took the necessary actions to address this situation and seek responsibility. The
Bank's Integrity Department was fully informed, special reviews of the fraudulent transactions were carried
out by Bank's financial management and procurement specialists, and proper actions and recommendations
were made and actions taken.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR rating: Likely.

Despite Nicaragua's weak institutional capacity and fiscal constraints, this project's sustainability is rated
as likely because it supported important modernization efforts, including in the institutional area, which
will likely lead to greater efficiency and effectiveness of the sector. Furthermore, the Project contributed to
setting the path for greater donor coordination under the SWAp approach, ensuring that future resources
invested in the sector support Government-established priorities and are managed transparently and



                                                     - 20 -

efficiently, avoiding redundancies and reducing transaction costs. Finally, many of the activities and
processes supported by the project (e.g., legal framework, MIS, management agreements, civic society
involvement) are conducive to sustaining improvements in health outcomes and sectoral performance.

·        The project supported the modernization of the legal framework, with key legislation, norms, and
regulations approved during the life of the Project. Sections 4.1 and 4.2 list the legislation introduced.

·        Introduction of modern management system, permeating from the central level to the SILAIS,
hospitals and municipal health areas. The budget system introduced with project support has contributed
to a 22 percentage points increase in budget execution from 1999 to 2003.

·        Successful introduction of management agreements in all SILAIS, promoting a result-based
planning, accountability, and improved efficiency.

·        Improved INSS systems by modernizing its financial and administrative processes, and introducing
a certification program for private providers of health services.

The one area where a special effort will be required to sustain modernization efforts is at hospital level,
mostly because of the scarcity of non-personnel operational budgets, affecting the supply of drugs,
maintenance of equipment, and running of the waste management programs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

This Project consisted of the first phase of an APL financed by IDA resources. A second operation under
the APL program was approved by the Board on April 5, 2005 and continues financing activities that were
successfully piloted under the first phase. In support of the Government's health modernization program
(as reflected in the Long Term Health Sector Plan and the Five Year Implementation Plan - FYIP), IDA
and IADB as well as three other bilateral donors (Sweden, the Netherlands and Finland) have come
together and agreed to finance the reforms under the modality of a sector wide approach (SWAP), whereby
they support the Government's plan against a common framework of results. The SWAp will adopt most
national procedures and MINSA's own institutions to carry out the agreed program. External funds, along
MINSA budget, will contribute to the same program, will use the revamped MINSA planning and
budgeting systems and will be administered using mostly national regulations and systems.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory. IDA's performance during preparation was unsatisfactory, leading to the unsatisfactory
rating of the project's Quality at Entry.     The IDA team underestimated the Government's capacity,
agreeing to a very large number of scattered interventions. Furthermore, there was no visible effort to
coordinate with the IADB, though both were preparing similar operations at around the same time period.
Several of the implementation problems could have been avoided at the design stage, had the project been
more targeted and less ambitious.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. IDA supervision is rated satisfactory because its team was able to successfully address
implementation problems, quickly responding to the emergency needs created by Hurricane Mitch, as well



                                                    - 21 -

as addressing in a timely manner the previously described flaws in design. The IDA team adequately
amended project activities, adjusting them as needed to ensure that the project met its development
objectives. Additionally, the team showed flexibility by coordinating its implementation with the IADB,
carrying out joint supervision missions and agreeing to merge the PCUs for each of the projects. Work
with other donors (NORAD and NFD) was also positive--collaboration with NORAD was stronger, since
its local presence allowed them to participate in most supervision missions. Participation of NDF was more
limited.

The IDA team carried out supervision missions regularly, and provided continuous support to the
Borrower. Nevertheless, the lack of a continuous presence in the country (a country office was established
in 1998 but IDA's project team was based in headquarters) was felt as a disadvantage, versus other donors
or lenders with presence in Nicaragua, and made the dialogue and the resolution of daily problems more
challenging.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall IDA performance is rated satisfactory for:

·        Timely responding to the changes and needs in the country's context and amending the project to
         better achieve the relevant PDO and meet the Government's needs;
·        Identifying and correcting project design flaws;
·        Providing key technical assistance, based on technical knowledge and an understanding of the
         country's reality;
·        During implementation, good team work and communication with the Borrower's team, the IADB's
         team and other donors;
·        Supporting the Government's efforts to further expand its decentralization efforts; and
·        Providing a pivotal role in crafting the SWAp operation in terms of its technical and fiduciary
         instruments, as well as donors-GON dialogue, assuring the continuity and scaling up of the
         project's success.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory with qualifications.
The Borrower collaborated with the IDA team in the preparation and design of this project.               The
Government showed ownership of the program and commitment to the proposed development objectives
with the preparation of a policy letter, containing a description of the proposed health sector modernization
program. The Government based its contribution and vision on the experience of the previous health project
supported by IDA, which provided a large amount of studies to lay the ground or technical options for the
proposed program 1998-2007. Nevertheless, the Borrower did not adequately assess the complexity of the
proposed project as designed and its capacity to implement it.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory, despite the problems in
assigning timely counterpart funding to the project during a period (the project was rated unsatisfactory on
counterpart funding during the second half of 2000). The Government provided continuous support to the
modernization efforts, though the government crisis in 2002, in light of the political turmoil, had
consequences on the health sector (which experienced a dramatic shortage of medicines during this crisis)



                                                     - 22 -

and affected project implementation and impacted the achievement of project outcomes. During 2002,
project implementation slowed significantly compared to 2001 levels, due to the change in Government,
Minister of Health and project coordinator, and to the implementation of new anti-corruption practices.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The implementing agency's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory.
MINSA remained committed to the program objectives through the life of the project. It worked to
overcome the institutional weaknesses since project inception, and was able to become a stronger institution
harnessing the health sector. MINSA was supported by the PCU throughout the life of the project. The
PCU used leadership and dedication at all stages of project implementation, trying to compensate when
needed the weak display of leadership at the top levels of MINSA during some implementation periods. It
worked with the international donors to merge the PCUs created for the IDA and IADB projects, in support
of a single investment and operations plan.

The PCU made a strong effort to involve the line Directorates of MINSA in implementation, once it was
clear that their further involvement was necessary to achieve the project's development objectives. The PCU
coordinated most of the preparatory and design work for the second phase of the modernization program
and has been successful in agreeing with the international organizations on using the sector-wide approach
to support the implementation of the national health policies.

Monitoring and evaluation was weak at some stages of implementation (during 2002, particularly).
Nevertheless, the implementing agency (MINSA and PCU) concentrated on monitoring and evaluation of
project innovations and impact towards project completion and to gather evidence that would support the
second phase of the program. Evaluation studies of the three Health Sector Modernization Program
components were carried out, as well as an evaluation of the National Health Policies 1998-2002 and of the
17 different PHC programs. Most of these evaluation studies were process oriented but contributed
significantly to taking stock of the fundamental lessons achieved and were thoroughly discussed by MINSA
line directorates.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory for:

·        Overall commitment to the health sector modernization, including passing key legislation to ensure
progress and sustainability of the modernization efforts;

·        Achieving the project objectives and most of its targets, despite the financial difficulties the country
faced and the weak leadership at some moments of implementation;

·        Making progress in articulating the work of the PCU technical team with the MINSA Directorates
to better achieve the PDOs;

·        Involving the regional and local levels and for seeking the support of the community initiatives and
networks where they existed;

·        Working with international organizations and donors during implementation and later on during
preparation of the next stage of modernization, favoring complementarity of the support provided by
external financiers.




                                                    - 23 -

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be drawn:

Importance of focusing actions/interventions to reach meaningful impact. In order to achieve the
project development objectives and have meaningful impact, it was necessary to focus or reduce the
technical and geographical reach of project activities, in light of a challenging political and economic
context, coupled with weak institutional capacity. This lesson was also drawn from the previous project,
however it was not taken at project design.

Coordinating IFI's interventions can promote better implementation. It is crucial to coordinate
financiers' interventions to prevent overlapping of activities, stretching out the institutional capacity of the
Borrower's implementing agency and slowing down project implementation. The co-financing of IDA credit
with NORAD and NDF funding was a success, as well as it was the convergence of the IDA and IADB
planning, executing and supervision activities under the Nicaragua Health Sector Modernization Program
at an early stage in project's implementation. This experience paved the way for a farther reaching SWAP,
as is now being implemented.

Testing new and alternative modalities and programs can help the Borrower identify the most
suitable option to achieve its sector objectives, but can also be cumbersome and disruptive. Trying
several alternatives to achieve one objective can serve the country to better identify the most suitable, viable
and sustainable options to adopt. Such was the case with the different alternatives that were implemented
during the pilot phase of this program to expand coverage of primary health care to underserved population
groups. However, too many different approaches, often driven by separate financier agendas, can
contribute to scattered strategies, competitive models and increased cost of supervision. The project was
able to test out different pilot initiatives that today form part of the national PHC strategy. The evaluation
of 14 different PHC programs in Nicaragua demonstrated also the negative consequences of this approach.

Public and private co-operation, particularly the role of NGOs and community volunteers, has shown
appropriate to reach communities in the most remote areas of Nicaragua. Working with NGOs and
supporting community managed Women Centers and community volunteers (Consejeras) in the Nutrition
and Growth Development Program, have shown the greatest impact in reducing maternal and infant
mortality in those communities.

Role of local level in reaching faster and deeper ownership of changes. Evidence gathered through
project execution points to the importance of decentralizing the implementation of changes at local level to
achieve depth, experience and sustainability of changes. Management agreements were successful at
unfolding local capacity, commitment and flexibility, while contributing to sector's policies and priorities.
Management agreements are the necessary accompanying instruments for the institutional decentralization
agenda of Nicaragua's health sector. Mainstreaming those management agreements with the planning and
budgeting process, making sure their financial projections are realistic, and strengthening MINSA's
capacity and systems to monitor and evaluate them are still areas that require future development.

Experience in expanding services in Nicaragua, and elsewhere, show that supply and demand
interventions are equally and simultaneously needed. The Safe Maternity and Infancy Fund
(FONMAT), sponsored by the IADB project, with its focalized production-based incentive payments to
institutional providers showed better results than the more supply driven PHC management model
sponsored by IDA. Both strategies are complementary




                                                       - 24 -

Importance of coordinating the provision of equipment and infrastructure improvement with the
technical assistance and training at the hospital and other providers' levels. In the case of this project,
not all the synergies created by the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment could be
materialized, due to lack of timeliness and coordination across project interventions in hospitals (i.e. works,
provision of equipment, technical assistance, etc.). The project experience showed that it would have been
more beneficial to carry out these complementary activities in coordination, to reach greater impact.

Women Centers (Casas Maternas) had great impact in reducing maternal mortality. The evaluation of
this experience showed that women centers contributed to reduce maternal mortality and improve other
reproductive health indicator in their areas of operation. Based on this evidence, the new SWAP operation
will continue to support the collaboration between the women centers and the local community service
organizations and the integration of women centers with the formal health care system.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower contributed with an Evaluation Report, assessing the impact and the implementation of the
project, from its perspective. A summary of the report is included in Annex 8. Besides, the Borrower sent
a letter to IDA (dated June 13, 2005, see project files) with comments to the ICR. The comments have been
taken into account and incorporated where possible into the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The Nordic Development Fund had no comments to the report. It highlighted its satisfaction with IDA's
positive assessment of the coordination with NDF, despite its limited involvement in supervision. NORAD
showed its satisfaction with the completion of the project. It declined making specific assessments, referring
to its subsequent own internal project completion report

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A

Notes
(1) The seven SILAIS supported under the first health reform project were Mataglapa, Jinotega, Chontales, Managua, Madriz,
Nueva Segovia, RAAS, Esteli, Leon, Chinandega).




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators

  Key Performance Indicators         Key performance indicators at                    Outcomes
               PAD                             reformulation                        End of Project
            1998-2002                              (2001)                          (2004 December)

20% increase in the rate of        70% of the population is covered forFirst level of care strengthened
utilization of PHC services by 2002basic health care as specified in the Primary health care model piloted
                                   Management Agreements for the 13 in 6 SILAIS, with the use of
                                   Primary Health Areas                  Management Agreements (signed
                                   (municipalities).                     between MINSA, SILAIS and 13
                                                                         health centers) for the delivery of
                                                                         primary care services. Expansion of
                                                                         the piloted model to all SILAIS by
                                                                         project end.
                                   80% coverage of prenatal care (at
                                   least 3 visits) in 13 Primary Health National Plan to reduce maternal,
                                   Areas*.                               infant and child mortality in 13
                                                                         health centers (13 municipalities)
                                                                         in the 6 targeted SILAIS designed
                                                                         and implemented. By project end,
                                                                         Plan was implemented in 11
                                                                         SILAIS with greater problems.

                                                                         Maternal mortality reduced from 21
                                                                         to 7 deaths and infant mortality
                                                                         from 213 to 115 deaths between
                                                                         2001-2004 in the 13 pilot health
                                                                         centers in the six selected SILAIS.

                                                                         Expanded coverage of primary care
                                                                         to underserved populations (15,000
                                                                         people) in rural areas, through the
                                                                         delivery of a Basic Health Service
                                                                         Package through 2 NGOs.

                                   8 therapeutical and clinic protocols 2 protocols for diabetes and
                                   are being implemented in 13 PHA's hypertension implemented and 5
                                                                         additional protocols on nutrition
                                                                         and children pathologies developed.
20% increase in prenatal           50% births for high-risk              55% of high risk births delivered
consultations by 2002              pregnancies delivered institutionally institutionally in 2003 in targeted
                                   in targeted areas                     areas
25% decrease in malnutrition rate Community-based growth                 The community based nutrition
for children less than 2 years in  promotion program available for at program - PROCOSAN -
target areas by 2002               least 90% of children under two in implemented in 442 communities,
                                   at least 240 communities and          more than doubling the number
                                   package of preventive nutritional     planned, and it has been taken up
                                   services used by at least 90% of      by other financiers in 1,413
                                   pregnant women in in at least 60      additional communities.
                                   communities



                                                       - 26 -

Modern management systems             Four pilot hospitals licensed         The four pilot hospitals had their
developed in 5 hospitals, with        according to MINSA's licensing        critical services upgraded to
indicators of equity , efficiency and program.                              comply with MINSA licensing
quality established in the                                                  standards.
managements agreements, by 2002 Reduced average length of stay
                                      from 7 to 5 days; 20% reduction in Those four public hospitals have
                                      waiting lists; and outpatient surgery implemented modern management
                                      accounts for at least 50% of total    systems including management
                                      surgeries in 4 pilot hospitals.       agreements, strategic plans,
                                                                            enhanced information systems, and
                                                                            quality programs.

                                                                            Average reduction of one day in
                                                                            length of stay in 4 pilot hospitals
                                                                            Reduction in waiting list: Juigalpa
                                                                            - from 2 months to 1 week; Ocotal;
                                                                            from 66 to 55 days.
Core functions of MINSA               Core functions in planning, human Strategic Planning function in
developed, management autonomy resources, monitoring and                    MINSA strengthened.
increased at SILAIS and hospital      evaluation, and facility licensing    Needs-based, bottom up budget
levels and resource allocation        developed in MINSA; management        system developed and
improved by 2002                      autonomy increased at targeted        implemented.
                                      SILAIS and hospitals levels;
                                      resource allocation to underserved   MINSA Planning (SIPLA) and
                                      areas improved by end of project.    Financial Management Systems
                                                                           (SIAFI) devised and implemented.
                                                                           Facility licensing developed in
                                                                           MINSA. Management autonomy
                                                                           increased at hospital and SILAIS
                                                                           levels. Non-personnel budget is
                                                                           now managed at SILAIS and
                                                                           hospital level.
30% reduction in reporting            30% reduction of reporting           Modernization of the INSS
requirements due to MIS               requirements due to MIS              administrative and financial system
implementation by 2002                implementation in INSS by end of was achieved. INSS Reporting and
                                      project.                             Accounting are now on time. No
                                                                           information available about
                                                                           reduction of reporting
                                                                           requirements.
Adequate legal framework for the General Framework Law for health General Health Law approved in
sector in place by 2002               sector in effect.                     2002. Regulations approved in
                                                                            2003. Three Technical Norms
                                                                            developed and passed.

                                                                            Significant progress in National
                                                                            Health Policy, with the elaboration
                                                                            of National Health Plan (NHP)
                                                                            2004-2015 and the Five Year
                                                                            Implementation Plan (FYIP)
Number of policy holders under        50% increase in the number of         INSS increased affiliation
prepaid insurance schemes             INSS insured enrolled in health       substantially: beneficiaries went
increased from 150,000 to 200,000 scheme with respect 1998 baseline. from 259,506 in 1998 to 353,035
by 2002                                                                     in 2004 (+36%). Additionally



                                                         - 27 -

                                                                        INSS has expanded coverage by
                                                                        increasing the age group to be
                                                                        covered (up to 12 years old) and
                                                                        including retired INSS affiliates.
                                     50% reduction in cross-subsidy     Study of cross-subsidy completed.
                                     from MINSA to INSS insured
                                     treated in MINSA facilities.
* The 80% target was the same for 2002 and 2007.



Additional Data on Impact of the Projects provided by the Evaluations of Project Components

Indicators of Health Status and Project Outcomes ( in 13 Pilot Health Centers )
                             Indicator                                 Target 2002                 Actual 2003
Reduction of infant mortality rate for population in targeted areas         2002          27.6% reduction (first
(Baseline: 217 infant deaths in 2000 in the first six SILAIS, 67            15%           6 health centers joining
infant deaths in 2001 in the second round six SILAIS)                                     in 2001)
                                                                                          19.4% reduction (next
                                                                                          7 health centers joining
                                                                                          in 2002)
Reduction of maternal mortality for population in targeted areas            2002          49 % reduction first 6
(Baseline 2000: 150 and 337 cases for each 100 thousand born                15%           health centers 2001
alive and registered for the first and second groups of PH areas                          joining the program)
joining the program)                                                                      increase of 21%* (next
                                                                                          7 PHA ­2002)
Increase in prenatal care coverage                                 80% of pregnant        72% in the 6 health
                                                                   women with 3           centers joining in 2001
                                                                   prenatal controls in   36% in the 7 health
                                                                   13 pilot health        centers joining 2002
                                                                   centers **
Increase in coverage of child growth and promotion for population80% coverage of          102.82%
in target areas                                                    child growth in
(children under 1 year of age)                                     population targeted
                                                                   by the project
Increase in user satisfaction in the 13 pilot health centers       90% of health          77.50%
                                                                   services users in
                                                                   health centers
                                                                   supported by the
                                                                   project, satisfied
                                                                   (target for 2007)

Source: "Evaluación de las intervenciones de Atención Primaria del PMSS". (September 2004). Data from the
13 pilot health centers.
*The evaluation suggested to reexamine these data, since absolute data show a reduction in maternal mortality
from 2001 to 2002 in those health centers.
** The 80% target was the same for 2002 and 2007.




                                                        - 28 -

Indicators for Extension of Coverage through NGOs Pilot Experience
                                    Indicators                                        Targets   2003 Results (%)
                                                                                       (%)
  Percentage of children under five with immunizations                                  98           100
  Percentage of children under 1 with three healthy child check ups per year           90-95         100
  Percentage of pregnant women receiving prenatal care (PNC) during the first
  trimester of pregnancy                                                                20           45.1
  Percentage of pregnant women (puerperas) who received 4 prenatal controls             40           45.3
  Percentage of pregnant women who received PNC who had institutional delivery.         20           25
  Percentage of women in fertile age using contraceptive methods                        40           50.5

Source : "Evaluación de las intervenciones de Atención Primaria del PMSS". (September 2004)




­ Community based Health and Nutrition Program Indicators ­ Participating Communities
 Indicator                                                    2001 (baseline) (%)            2004 (%)
Prevalence of malnutrition (weight/age)                                30.4                   9.97

Exclusive breast feeding until 6 months of age                         72.2                   79.9

Immunizations completed                                            95.8 (2002)                97.1

Source: "Programa Comunitario de Salud y Nutrición - PROCOSAN". Informe de Cierre. December 2004.



 ­ Hospital Indicators for the 4 Pilot Hospitals
   Indicators                         Hospital             Hospital            Hospital            Hospital
   (%)                                Masaya              Juigalpa              Ocotal             Granada
                                 Baseline     2003    Baseline   2003     Baseline   2003    Baseline    2003
 Perinatal mortality rate           17.4       13       48.5      34.5      39.8     28.1     25.6       20.3
 C-section rate (%)                18.67     28.32                          26.6      28       24         23
 Occupation rate                    75.9      63.4      66.50    75.90      72.4     72.6      68        71.6
 Percentage of users satisfied      n.a.     82.25       n.a.    83.40      n.a.     80.6      60        86.4
 Achievement of agreed targets
 in Management Agreements           n.a.       91        n.a.     98.6      n.a.      93      n.a.       90.55




Source: "Evaluación del Componente de Modernización de Hospitales. Informe Final". November 2004.
Baseline 1999 - intrahospital rates.




                                                     - 29 -

Output Indicators
PAD Output Indicators               Reformulation Key Output                     End of Project
                                    indicators                                  (December 2004)
Increased coverage and access to Increased coverage and access to
PHC and Nutrition Programs          PHC and Nutrition Programs

12 women centers operational by     10 maternityhHomes (women          25 maternity homes fully
2002                                centers) fully operational.        operational, 9 with project support
Integral Maternal and Childcare     Management Agreements fully        Management agreements (MA)
model operational in 17 SILAIS by implemented in 13 Primary Health signed with 13 PHA in 6 SILAIS
2002                                Areas (PHA) in 6 SILAIS.           in 2003 and MA signed in 2004
                                                                       with the 17 SILAIS of the country,
                                                                       152 municipalities and 32 public
                                                                       hospitals, setting performance
                                                                       goals and identifying funding
                                                                       resources.
                                    At least 8 primary care protocols
                                    developed and implemented in 13    3 protocols for diabetes,
                                    PHAs.                              pneumonia and hypertension
                                                                       implemented and 5 additional
                                                                       protocols on nutrition and children
                                                                       pathologies developed.
Food supplementation program                                          Community-based nutrition
available for 60% of pregnant                                         program (PROCOSAN) developed
breastfeeding women and children                                      and implemented in 442
between 6 months and 2 years in 7                                     communities. Accepted as the
SILAIS by 2002                                                        national nutrition strategy by donor
                                                                      community.
50% of health centers rehabilitated 13 health units in PHAs            12 PHA rehabilitated and
according to new PHC model in 6 rehabilitated and re-equipped.         equipped.
SILAIS by 2002                                                         16 non-planned additional PHA
                                                                       were emergently rehabilitated after
                                                                       hurricane Mitch.
Performance based incentive                                            System was devised and
system operational for 17 SILAIS                                       implemented in 6 SILAIS, 6
by year 2 of the project                                               hospitals and 6 PHA in 2001-2003.

Hospital Modernization              Hospital Modernization

Management agreements               Management agreements fully       Management agreements signed
operational in 15 hospitals by 2002 operation in 4 pilot hospitals.   with all public hospitals (32) by
                                                                      project completion
Hospital management                 Modern Management systems          4 pilot hospitals have fully
demonstration project operational developed in 4 hospitals including 9 implemented the following
in 5 hospitals by 2002              modules to improve clinical and    management tools: strategic plans,
                                    non-clinical management.           internal management agreements,
                                                                       management table-boards, quality
                                                                       improvement programs, nursing
                                                                       standard practices and waste
                                                                       management plans. Four additional
                                                                       hospitals (hospitales tutelados) got




                                                      - 30 -

                                                                       lighter management support to
                                                                       implement the same management
                                                                       tools.
                                    Internal performance agreements    Achieved (see above)
                                    implemented in 4 pilot hospitals
                                    Community advisory boards          Community Advisory Boards
                                    established in 4 pilot hospitals.  established and its members
                                                                       trained in management issues in
                                                                       the four pilot hospitals.
At least 30 Hospital Rehabilitation Investment subprojects completed   Total of 31 rehabilitation
Fund subprojects approved and       in pilot hospitals according to    subprojects approved in eight
implemented by 2002                 approved investment plan.          selected hospitals, including the
                                                                       four pilot hospitals.
Emergency services in 10 hospitals
operational according to MINSA
standards by 2002
                                    Nursing quality standards fully    Achieved (see above)
                                    implemented in pilot hospitals
                                    Physician clinical protocols       11 clinical protocols were
                                    implemented in all departments of implemented, including:
                                    pilot hospitals                    pneumonia, neonatal sepsis,
                                                                       post-partum hemorrhage, diabetes
                                                                       and hypertension, abortion and
                                                                       surgical prophylaxis.
Institutional Strengthening                                            General Health Law approved in
                                                                       2002. Regulations approved in
Revised, drafted and consulted                                         2003. 3 Technical Norms
package of 7 laws amongst                                              developed and passed.
stakeholders;

50% of technical and
methodological norms updated and
applied by 2002
New organizational and functional New organizational and functional Law on Organization Competence
structure operational in 2 years of structure for MINSA Central        and Procedures of the Executive
the project                         operational.                       passed in 1999, established a more
                                                                       clear specialization of functions
                                                                       within MOH. The MOH is devising
                                                                       a new restructuring exercise since
                                                                       early 2004, still ongoing by project
                                                                       completion.
Strategic Planning Model            Strategic Planning Model           Directorate of Planning created in
implemented by service levels in    implemented by service levels.     2001. Strategic Planning
two years of the project                                               successfully developed and
                                                                       implemented. National Health
                                                                       Policy 2004-2015, National Health
                                                                       Plan 2004-2015 and Five Year
                                                                       Action plan 2005-2009 drafted,
                                                                       consulted and under
                                                                       implementation
MIS links to center operational     MIS modules for human resources All modules designed and
from 8 SILAIS by 2002               (SIRHU), planning and investment operational. System not fully




                                                       - 31 -

                                    (SIPLA), medical supplies and       integrated as such and not
                                    distribution system (SAAS), and     implemented at all levels.
                                    financial management (SIGFA)
                                    operational.
30% of MINSA budget                 100% of MINSA budget                Bottom-up, activity-based
decentralized to SILAIS and         decentralized to pilot SILAIS and   budgeting exercise implemented by
hospitals.                          hospitals.                          MINSA since 2003. This system
                                                                        has been formalized in budget
                                                                        structure and approved by MOF.
                                                                        100% of non-personnel budget
                                                                        management decentralized at
                                                                        SILAIS and hospital level.
                                    Performance-based incentive         System piloted for one year and
                                    system operational for pilot SILAIS discontinued.
                                    and hospitals.
80% of senior management and        70% of senior management and        Accomplished. 500 MINSA
senior technical MINSA staff        senior technical MINSA staff        management staff trained in
trained in priority areas such as   trained in priority areas such as   strategic planning, 240 staff in
management and administration by human resources, program               financial management and 200 in
2002                                budgeting and strategic planning.   human resources management.
Increased Institutional Capacity inINSS Reform
INSS
                                    50% reduction in paper use as       Information not available
New MIS operational by 2002         measured by spending on paper
                                    (between 1998 and 2003)

                                    10% reduction in human resources
                                    between 1998 and 2003.
Separation of core businesses       (This indicator was achieved by     Accomplished
(including accounts and             2001)
management) accomplished by
2002
Collective affiliation substitutes  Expansion of benefits package to    Expansion of benefit package to
individual affiliation in year 2 of include preventive services and     the entire insured population
the project                         selected complex pathologies;
                                    extension of expanded benefits to   Targets fully met: 353,035
                                    entire insured beneficiary          affiliates in 2004. Additionally,
                                    population.                         INSS expanded definition of
                                                                        beneficiaries to include children up
                                    Extension of health coverage to     to 12 years old. 34,000 eligible
                                    100% of eligible population.        retired people (91% of the target
                                                                        population) covered by INSS
                                                                        health plan by project end.
80% of senior management and        (This indicator was achieved by     Accomplished
senior technical INSS staff trained 2001)
in priority areas such as
management and administration by
2002.
                                    Full implementation of quality      Accomplished
                                    measurement and certification of all
                                    EMPs.




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Primary Health Care Model                                11.10            9.73           87.65

2. Hospital Modernization                                    7.70            8.96          116.36

3. Modernization of MINSA                                    6.80            6.24           91.76

4. INSS                                                      3.00            4.50             150

5. Project Administration                                    3.40            1.98           58.23

Total Baseline Cost                                         32.00          31.41
                         Total Project Costs                32.00          31.41
                  Total Financing Required                  32.00          31.41


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             1.40         2.30          1.40         5.10
                                  (0.00)           (1.00)      (2.10)         (0.00)       (3.10)
2. Goods                           0.90             1.00         2.10          2.30         6.30
                                  (0.70)           (0.80)      (1.80)         (0.00)       (3.30)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         8.40          1.10         9.50
(Consultants and Studies)         (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.40)         (0.00)       (8.40)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00         1.90          0.60         2.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.90)         (0.00)       (1.90)
5. Printing and IEC                0.00             0.40         0.80          0.50         1.70
services                          (0.00)           (0.40)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (1.00)
6. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00         6.30          0.60         6.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.30)         (0.00)       (6.30)
   Total                           0.90             2.80        21.80          6.50        32.00
                                  (0.70)           (2.20)      (21.10)        (0.00)      (24.00)


Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$million
equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB
                                                    NCB               2                Total Cost
                                                               Other         N.B.F.

1. Works                           0.00             1.11         1.97         0.42       3.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.92)      (1.63)         (0.00)    (2.55)



                                                - 33 -

    2. Goods                                 1.41               0.08              2.55             2.92          6.96
                                            (1.33)            (0.07)             (2.44)           (0.00)      (3.84)
    3. Services                              0.00               0.00              8.68             0.75          9.43
    (Consultant and Studies)                (0.00)            (0.00)             (8.62)           (0.00)        (8.62)
    4. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.79             0.08         0.87
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.77)           (0.00)       (0.77)
    5. Printing and IEC                      0.00               0.00              0.62             0.06          0.68
    services                                (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.54)           (0.00)       (0.53)
    6. Pharmaceuticals                                                            1.65             1.68          3.32
                                                                                 (1.65)                         (1.65)
    7. Food supplements                                                                                          0.00
                                                                                                                (0.00)
    8. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              1.32             0.54          1.86
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)             (1.17)           (0.00)        (1.16)
    9.BHSP                                                                        0.28             0.01          0.29
                                                                                 (0.28)                         (0.28)
       Total                                 1.41               1.19             17.85             6.47         26.92
                                            (1.33)            (0.99)            (17.10)           (0.00)       (19.42)
   NOTE: Data to complete this table was provided by MINSA, besed on their records. Total amount of
   project cost financed by IDA includes only the resources used by MINSA to execute the project activities.
   A total of approximately US$3.99 million equivalent of credit resources - not included in this table -
   financed activities under the INSS component. INSS did not provide detailed information on the project
   cost by procurement activities by ICR completion.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.


1. Primary Health Care          7.10                                  7.09         0.39       2.25       99.9
Model

2. Hospital                     4.60                                  5.34         0.40       3.22       116.1
Modernization

3. MINSA Modernization          6.20                                  5.44         0.11       0.68       87.7

4. INSS                         3.00                                  3.99         0.51       0.00       133.0
5. Project Administration       3.10                                  1.54         0.13       0.31       49.7
Total                          24.00         1.50         6.50       23.41         1.54       6.46       97.5     102.7     99.4

   Note: The ICR team used the information available in the PAD and the data provided by MINSA to
   complete this table. The PAD did not indicate the amounts to be financed by the Borrower and the
   cofinanciers by project component.



                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              04/14/1997                9    MISSION LEADER (1),
                                             HEALTH CONSULTANT (4),
                                             PENSION SPECIALIST (1),
                                             SOCIAL SECURITY
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1), LEGAL (1)
              08/11/1997                8    MISSION LEADER (1),
                                             HEALTH ECONOMIST (3),
                                             PENSION AND HEALTH
                                             REFORM SPECIALIST (1),
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (3)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/10/1997              11     MISSION LEADER
                                             (1);PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST( 2); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (5); SOCIAL
                                             SECURITY SPECIALIST
                                             (1); LEGAL (1)
              01/12/1998              14     MISSION LEADER
                                             (1);PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             ECONOMIST( 3); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (4); SOCIAL
                                             SECURITY SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEGAL (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (2)
              04/20/1998                6    SECTOR LEADER (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER
                                             (1);PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEGAL ( 1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              06/26/1998                2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              01/15/1999                8    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (6)



                                              - 36 -

01/27/2000    8 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                PROJECT CONSULTANT (1);
                CONSULTANT (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); LANGUAGE TASK
                ASSISTANT (1); CONSUL
                HOSPITAL REFORM (1);
                CONSUL SOCIAL SECURITY
                (1); CONS FINAN
                DESCENTRALI (1)
01/27/2000    2 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                PROC. & IMPLEM SPECIAL
                (1)
01/27/2000    7 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); CONSULTANT (4); IDB
                STAFF (1)
01/27/2000    8 TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH        S    S
                ECONOMIST (1); BASIC
                HEALTH (1); PROCUREMENT
                OFFICER (1);
                COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                NUTRITION (2);
                INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTH
                (1)
11/22/2002    6 TTL/HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);     S    S
                PRIMARY HEALTH (1);
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                CONSULTANT(COMP. INSS)
                (1); TTL (1); HOSPITALS (1)
03/14/2003    5 TTL (1); INSS COMPONENT        S    S
                (1); HOSPITAL CONSULTANT
                (1); PRIMARY CARE
                CONSULTANT (1);
                NUTRITION CONSULTANT
                (1)
12/05/2003    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.      S    S
                HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                NUTRITIONIST (1)
12/05/2003    6 TTL (1); SENIOR HEALTH         S    HS
                ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC
                HEALTH SPECIALI (1); SR.
                HEALTH SPEC (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAGER SPEC
                (1); SR PROCUREMENT SPEC
                (1)
11/24/2004    2 TTL (1); SR. HEALTH            S    HS
                ECONOMIST (1)
11/24/2004    2 TTL (1); SENIOR HEALTH         S    S
                ECONOMIST (1)




                - 37 -

 ICR
               01/04/2005             1     Operations Consultant             S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              n.a                          50.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   n.a                          66.0
  Supervision                           44.4                         841.0
  ICR                                     8.0                          22.0
  Total                                 52.4                         979.0




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating
   Macro policies                         H      SU     M      N       NA
   Sector Policies                        H      SU     M      N       NA
   Physical                               H      SU     M      N       NA
   Financial                              H      SU     M      N       NA
   Institutional Development              H      SU     M      N       NA
   Environmental                          H      SU     M      N       NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction             H      SU     M      N       NA
            Gender                        H      SU     M      N       NA
            Other (Please specify)        H      SU     M      N       NA
         Indigenous
   Private sector development             H      SU     M      N       NA
   Public sector management               H      SU     M      N       NA
   Other (Please specify)                 H      SU     M      N       NA


The ratings for poverty reduction, gender and indigenous people under the project were found modest. The
project focused its interventions on some of the most vulnerable population groups (women and children),
concentrating efforts in implementing a policy to reduce maternal and child mortality in geographical areas
showing higher rates of maternal and child mortality. The project sought to improve primary health care in
areas where indigenous populations concentrated, piloting the experience of provision of a basic package of
health services delivered by NGOs, successfully. The pilot nature of project interventions limited the
absolute numeric impact of said interventions, but there had key impact in providing guidance for the
selection of the policies and strategies to undertake at national level.

Regarding the project impact on private sector development, it was found to be substantial concerning the
impact of the interventions carried out under the INSS component to improve the quality of the services
provided under INSS, introducing a certification program for private providers of health services.




                                                     - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank Documents

l Project Appraisal Document. May 1998.
l Credit Agreement and Amendments
l Aide Memoires - 1998 - 2004
l Project Status Report 1998-2004
l Draft Project Appraisal Document for SWAp


Borrower Documents

  l "Evaluación de la Intervenciones en Atención Primaria en Salud del Programa del Modernización
      del Sector Salud del Ministerio de Salud". Nicaragua. September 2004.
  l "Programa Comunitario de Salud y Nutrición (PROCOSAN). Informe de Cierre". December 2004.
  l "Programa de Modernización del Sector Salud. Componente APS y Casas Maternas Informe de
      Consultoria". February 2003.
  l "Manual Operativo de Casas Maternas". MINSA. 2000
  l "Evaluación de los Programas y Proyectos en apoyo a la Atención Primaria en Salud. Informe
      Final". Bitran y Asociados. Marzo 2004.
  l "Evaluación del Componente de Modernización de Hospitales. Informe Final." MINSA. November
      2004
  l "Evaluación de las Intervenciones del Componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional. Informe
      Final". October 2004.




                                                 - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution



                                    REPÚBLICA DE NICARAGUA
                                           Ministerio de Salud
                               Proyecto de Modernización del Sector Salud
                                         Convenio de Crédito 3084
                                                 1998-2004
                                       Informe Nacional de Cierre
                                         Managua, Mayo de 2005

 1. Antecedentes

 En el período 1994-1998 el Gobierno de Nicaragua, a través del Ministerio de salud ejecutó un proyecto
 de Reforma del Sector Salud (Convenio de Crédito 2556-NI), el cual comprendió componentes como
 fortalecimiento institucional, atención primaria en salud, mejoramiento del sistema de suministro,
 rehabilitación y mantenimiento y asistencia técnica al INSS.

 Si bien es cierto, se impulsaron intervenciones exitosas con dicho proyecto y con otros cooperantes, al
 concluir el mismo el país continuaba en proceso de transformación y era indispensable desarrollar,
 profundizar y consolidar más el proceso de reforma. El país debía enfrentar los siguientes problemas en
 el sector:

 Ø Altoíndicedeenfermedades,relacionadoconlasenfermedadesinfectocontagiosasyla
      desnutrición, en especial en los sectores rurales más pobres.
 Ø Ladébilcapacidadinstitucionalyelprocesodedescentralización.
 Ø Necesidadderenovacióndelafuerzalaboraldeficiente.
 Ø Elvacíojurídico.
 Ø Lanecesidaddereformarelsectorfarmacéutico.
 Ø Eldesordendeloshospitales.
 Ø Lasindefinicionesencuantoalfuturodelaccionardelsegurosocial.

 Para dar respuestas a estos problemas, el Gobierno de Nicaragua formuló su Política Nacional de Salud
 1997-2002 y a partir de ella diseñó un proyecto para ser financiado por la Agencia Internacional de
 Fomento (AIF) del Banco Mundial.


 2. Contribución a los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Proyecto

 El 8 de julio de 1998 se celebró entre la República de Nicaragua y la Asociación Internacional de
 Fomento el Convenio de Crédito Número 3084-NI, el cual fue ejecutado hasta el 31 de Diciembre de
 2004. el Proyecto ejecutado se constituyó en la primera etapa de un Programa de Modernizacion del
 Sector Salud (PMSS), el cual es un Préstamo de Programa Adaptable (PPA) que permite al Gobierno y
 al Banco medir los avances de los objetivos importantes y, si fuera necesario, revisar nuevamente las
 actividades del programa, incorporando las experiencias adquiridas y ajustando el programa a largo
 plazo.




                                                  - 42 -

2.1 Los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Proyecto

El Programa de Modernizacion del Sector Salud pretende mejorar la eficiencia, eficacia y equidad del
sistema de salud nicaragüense: (i) fortaleciendo la atención primaria y la nutrición; (ii) modernizando la
red de hospitales; (iii) desarrollando la capacidad institucional del Ministerio de Salud; y (iv) apoyando
reformas del seguro social.

Al final de su primera etapa, se esperaba los siguientes indicadores clave de desempeño sobre los
avances de los objetivos del programa:

Indicadores de política:

Ø Sehanestablecidolasnuevasfunciones,responsabilidadesdelMINSA,asícomolanueva
estructura organizacional y funcional.
Ø Sehaestablecidounmarcojurídicoadecuado,queapoyaeldesarrolloorganizacionaldelMINSA,
del sector farmacéutico, del seguro social y de las empresas médicas privadas al terminar el proyecto.
Ø Sehanincorporadocambiossustancialesenlaasignacióndelosrecursosycompromisosde
gestión han sido firmados con los directores de los SILAIS y de los hospitales.
Ø SehanseparadolosnegociosprincipalesdelINSS(incluyendolascuentasylaadministración)yel
número de afiliados ha aumentado en un 20% (en comparación con 1998).

Indicadores de ejecución

Ø ModeloIntegraldeSaludMaternoinfantilyprogramasdenutriciónfuncionanen17SILAIS.
Ø Programanacionalparareducirlamortalidadmaternayperinatalhasidodiseñado(deacuerdocon
      los resultados de los pilotos).
Ø Laadministraciónhasidofortalecidaencincohospitales.
Ø Porlomenos30proyectosderehabilitacióndehospitaleshansidoejecutados.
Ø SIGfuncionaentre17SILAISylasedecentral.
Ø AfiliacióncolectivasustituyealaafiliaciónindividualenelINSSyelnuevosistemadegestión
      financiera ha sido establecido.

2.2 Cumplimiento de los Objetivos

El Gobierno de Nicaragua cumplió suficientemente con los objetivos planteados en el Proyecto
Modernizacion del Sector Salud en la primera fase del PPA. La valoración de los indicadores de política
es la siguiente:

El indicador "Se han establecido las nuevas funciones, responsabilidades del MINSA, así como la
nueva estructura organizacional y funcional" fue cumplido de la siguiente manera:

       Se .establecieron las funciones y responsabilidades, así como la nueva estructura organizacional
       del Ministerio de Salud a través de la Ley de Organización, Competencia y Procedimientos del
       Poder Ejecutivo, Ley N° 290, publicada en La Gaceta Diario Oficial el 3 de junio de 1998, y se
       precisan en el Reglamento de la misma, bajo el Decreto Ejecutivo N° 71-98 publicado en La
       Gaceta Diario Oficial el 31 de octubre de 1998 y sus reformas y adiciones bajo el Decreto
       Ejecutivo N° 11-2002 publicado en La Gaceta Diario Oficial el 25 de febrero de 2002. En la
       actualidad (año 2005) se está ejecutando una segunda parte del proceso de reestructuración,
       mismo que inició en 2004.




                                                 - 43 -

Los elementos que evidencian el cumplimiento del indicador "Se ha establecido un marco jurídico
adecuado, que apoya el desarrollo organizacional del MINSA, del sector farmacéutico, del seguro
social y de las empresas médicas privadas al terminar el proyecto" son:

      Se promulgó la Ley de Medicamentos y Farmacias, Ley N° 292 en La Gaceta Diario Oficial el 4
      de junio de 1998 y su Reglamento bajo Decreto Ejecutivo N° 2-99 publicado en La Gaceta Diario
      Oficial el 4 y 5 de febrero de 1999. Se hicieron reformas al Reglamento de dicha Ley bajo
      Decretos Ejecutivos N° 50-2000 y 23-2002 publicados en La Gaceta Diario Oficial el 7 de junio
      de 2000 y el 7 de marzo de 2002 repectivamente.

      Se promulgó la Ley General de Salud, Ley N° 423 publicada en La Gaceta Diario Oficial el 17 de
      mayo de 2002 y su Reglamento bajo Decreto Ejecutivo publicado en La Gaceta Diario Oficial el
      10 y 13 de enero de 2003.

      Además fue promulgada la Ley sobre Seguridad Transfusional, Ley 369 publicada en La Gaceta
      Diario Oficial el 1 de febrero de 2001

El cumplimiento del indicador "Se han incorporado cambios sustanciales en la asignación de los
recursos y compromisos de gestión han sido firmados con los directores de los SILAIS y de los
hospitales" se evidencia de la siguiente manera:

      Desde 2003, el MINSA está poniendo en práctica el proceso para la elaboración del presupuesto
      basado en las actividades necesarias y la estimación de recursos para abordar los principales
      problemas de salud de cada territorio, en un proceso de abajo arriba, con lo cual están sentándose
      las bases para romper con la tradición de asignación de presupuestos en forma histórica. Este
      sistema ha logrado formalizarse a través de una nueva estructura presupuestaria, la cual es
      aprobada por el Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público. Como consecuencia de una serie de
      medidas en este sentido, que facilitan la ejecución presupuestaria, se ha logrado incrementar el
      porcentaje de ejecución de dicho presupuesto de 77% en 1999 al 99% en los años 2003 y 2004.

      Desde el año 2000 se ha iniciado la introducción de mecanismos de contratación de servicios en
      los establecimientos públicos iniciando un pilotaje con 6 hospitales y 6 centros de salud en el país.
      Para el año 2004 se ha logrado introducir la firma de compromisos de gestión en todos los
      hospitales (32), en todos los SILAIS (17) y sus municipios (152 centros de salud) del sector
      público para establecer metas de desempeño e identificar los recursos financieros.

El indicador "Se han separado los negocios principales del INSS (incluyendo las cuentas y la
administración) y el número de afiliados ha aumentado en un 20% (en comparación con 1998)" se ha
cumplido de la siguiente manera:

        El INSS ha separado efectivamente la administración y la contabilidad de los tres planes a su
        cargo: Salud previsional, Riesgos laborales y Pensiones. También se ha logrado la meta de
        afiliación, ya que los beneficiarios del INSS han aumentado en 36% en el período 1998-2004
        (de 259,506 beneficiarios en 1998 a 353,035 en 2004).

La valoración de los indicadores de ejecución se hace de la siguiente manera:

Modelo Integral de Salud Maternoinfantil y programas de nutrición funcionan en 17 SILAIS.

        El modelo de atención integral con énfasis Maternoinfantil (modelo de gestión) fue implantado
        en 6 SILAIS. A partir de los resultados de estas intervenciones y de las de otros cooperantes el
        Ministerio de Salud ha aprobado su Modelo de Atención Integral en Salud, cuyos primeros
        resultados en su implantación se observan con la suscripción de compromisos de gestión en los
        17 SIIAIS con el MINSA para la entrega de servicios de primer nivel de atención y mejoras en



                                                 - 44 -

        la gestión de los establecimientos en función de mejorar la calidad de los servicios y la eficiencia
        en el uso de los recursos.

Programa nacional para reducir la mortalidad materna y perinatal ha sido diseñado (de acuerdo con
los resultados de los pilotos).

        Un programa de disminución de la mortalidad materna y perinatal fue diseñado en el año 2002 y
        aplicado en los 11 SILAIS con mayores problemas. En las unidades pilotos de intervención del
        PPA (13 centros de salud) se observó entre los años 2001 y 2004 una disminución del número
        de defunciones maternas de 21 a 7 y de las muertes infantiles de 213 a 115.

La administración ha sido fortalecida en cinco hospitales.

        A nivel nacional, 6 hospitales piloto (4 de ellos apoyados por el PPA) han puesto en práctica las
        siguientes técnicas de gestión: planes estratégicos, convenios de gestión (Hospital MINSA),
        acuerdos de gestión internos (Hospital con sus servicios), sistemas de apoyo a las decisiones en
        grupo (consejos técnicos y de dirección, consejos consultivos con la sociedad civil), programas
        de mejoramiento de la calidad, prácticas de enfermería con utilización de estándares, así como
        planes de desechos médicos. Otros 9 hospitales conocidos como tutelados (4 de ellos apoyados
        por el PPA) han puesto en práctica las principales de estas intervenciones.

Por lo menos 30 proyectos de rehabilitación de hospitales han sido ejecutados.

        En total se han ejecutado 31 proyectos de rehabilitación en cuatro hospitales piloto y cuatro
        tutelados con apoyo del PPA. La mayoría están concentrados en la mejoría de la ruta crítica:
        salas de emergencias, quirófanos, salas de neonatos y los apoyo directos a las mismas como
        laboratorio clínico. Esto se ha realizado de conformidad con las normas nacionales para poder
        alcanzar la habilitación de dichos servicios.

SIG funciona entre 17 SILAIS y la sede central.

        Los sistemas de información gerencial (cuadros de mando) funcionan en todos los hospitales del
        MINSA y son revisados mensualmente tanto por las autoridades del nivel central del MINSA
        con los directores de hospitales. Los SILAIS operan también con cuadros de gestión más
        reducidos para supervisar a sus proveedores locales del primer nivel de atención.

Afiliación colectiva sustituye a la afiliación individual en el INSS y el nuevo sistema de gestión
financiera ha sido establecido.

        El INSS ha implementado un sistema integral de gestión financiera. Como resultado, todas las
        transacciones financieras (nóminas, contabilidad, inventario, presupuesto, tesorería, recursos
        humanos) están vinculadas entre sí y el INSS tiene acceso a los estados financieros en tiempo
        real.

        La afiliación colectiva sustituyó a la individual a partir de 1996 y fue completada en 1998.


3. Resultados por componentes

Con la primera fase del PPA se planteó desarrollar y realizar pilotos de las reformas del sector y
programas prioritarios, fortaleciendo su experiencia, conocimientos y capacidad para ampliar dichas
reformas y programas en la siguiente etapa.

Los principales resultados obtenidos por cada uno de los componentes del PPA se describen a
continuación.



                                                 - 45 -

3.1. Atención Primaria en salud y Nutrición.

Este componente comprendió cinco elementos: (i) extensión del modelo integral de atención primaria en
salud; (ii) Nutrición dirigida (piloto); (iii) red de casas maternas (piloto); (iv) vigilancia epidemiológica;
y (v) monitoreo y evaluación. Estos se agruparon básicamente en tres subcomponentes: Modelo de
atención en salud que atendió la implantación del modelo de gestión de la APS y la extensión de
cobertura a través de la contratación de ONG's para la atención a zonas rurales sin acceso a servicios
de salud; Casas maternas y el Programa Comunitario de Salud y Nutrición (PROCOSAN)

El modelo de gestión de la APS, junto con el FONMAT, ha sido pilar clave de las reformas del
MINSA. Este modelo ha permitido al MINSA contar con un marco para la separaración de las
funciones financieras y de provisión de servicios y ha desarrollado su capacidad de contratación
mediante la introducción de nuevos elementos contractuales como los compromisos y convenios de
gestión en los establecimientos públicos, iniciar la variación de mecanismos de pago e introducir
procesos de negociación en el establecimiento de objetivos y metas a cumplir.

A través de este componente se introdujeron instrumentos clínicos y administrativos clave para la
prestación de servicios como los protocolos de atención, la introducción del enfoque preventivo con la
búsqueda activa de factores de riesgo en forma sistemática en las diferentes atenciones brindadas a la
población, el ordenamiento del expediente clínico y su archivo, encuestas de satisfacción de pacientes,
los cuadros de gestión para la información gerencial y mejoramiento de los sistemas de información.
Todo esto ha sido muy bien valorado por los profesionales de la salud en el nivel local.

El establecimiento de compromisos de gestión y la evaluación de los mismos ligado a incentivos (no
siempre económicos) demostró haber favorecido la implantación de nuevos mecanismos administrativos
con éxito, como los antes señalados, y se valora fue clave en los mejoramientos de la cobertura de la
atención y en la disminución de los principales daños a la población, fundamentalmente en los
indicadores maternoinfantiles según se ha señalado.

La extensión de la cobertura a poblaciones rurales subatendidas a través de la contratación de ONG's
ha mostrado tener buenos resultados en la ampliación de la cobertura en las áreas remotas,
fundamentalmente en lugares donde el MINSA tiene muchas dificultades para llevar sus servicios,
fundamentalmente por falta de personal o por la extrema lejanía de las comunidades. Todas las tasas de
cobertura meta fueron superadas.

El piloto de demostración de Casas Maternas resultó ser una de las estrategias comunitarias con mayor
eficacia directa demostrada. Se apoyó la formación y funcionamiento de 9 casas maternas en las que
3.000 madres dieron a luz entre el 2001 y el 2003. El 80% de las madres eran pobres o extremadamente
pobres, y el 30% eran menores de 19 años. El tiempo promedio de viaje de sus casas a las CM era de
tres a ocho horas, a pie o en embarcación.

Las acciones coordinadas de las CM y las redes de salud comunitarias han aumentado la planificación
familiar (en dos CM situadas en localidades muy pobres, el uso de la planificación familiar se ha
duplicado).

Los datos preliminares indican que la mortalidad materna ha disminuido drásticamente desde que
funcionan las CM.

El Programa Comunitario de Salud y Nutrición (PROCOSAN) y otros programas comunitarios han
tenido un impacto positivo importante, pero su relación y coordinación con la principal red de servicios
de salud requiere mayores esfuerzos. PROCOSAN ha sido institucionalizado y adoptado por la mayoría




                                                    - 46 -

de las ONG y los donantes en Nicaragua como el mejor programa de nutrición, crecimiento y desarrollo.

Una evaluación específica se está desarrollando.


3.2. Modernizacion de la red hospitalaria.

El componente de Modernizacion de la red hospitalaria del MINSA contempló tres elementos
fundamentales: (i) compromisos de gestión; (ii) proyecto de demostración de la administración
hospitalaria; y (iii) Fondo de rehabilitación de hospitales.

Los hospitales, han implementado con éxito los instrumentos administrativos clave que estaban
contemplados, como los convenios de gestión con el MINSA, los acuerdos internos de gestión con sus
servicios internos (unidades básicas de gestión); los programas de calidad que contemplan entre otros la
organización y funcionamiento de comités y subcomités de calidad, protocolización de la atención y
terapéutica de los principales problemas de salud prevalentes, estandarización para los cuidados de
enfermería; los sistemas de información, los planes estratégicos y de negocio, los consejos consultivos,
etc. Su impacto es más difícil de determinar.

A pesar que los índices de desempeño de los hospitales son bastante inestables y no muestran mejoras
significativas, las tasas de mortalidad materna y perinatal han disminuido en la mayoría de los hospitales
objeto de la intervención. Los niveles de satisfacción de los pacientes también han mejorado en todos los
hospitales.

Las bajas tasas de hospitalización persisten y sugieren que hay problemas en la oferta y la demanda,
incluida la falta de fondos de operación.

Los proyectos de fortalecimiento físico en los hospitales han sido considerados como positivos y
necesarios, pero también han sido evaluados como insuficientes por la falta de recursos para satisfacer
la totalidad de los requerimientos.

La contratación de los promotores del programa (Agentes de Cambio) ha sido considerada como
fundamental para apoyar la puesta en práctica del nuevo modelo administrativo. Sin embargo, una
estrategia más sostenible exige que se fortalezcan las Direcciones Hospitalarias del MINSA con
personal calificado.


3.3. Modernizacion del MINSA.

Las metas y los objetivos establecidos para este componente se han cumplido totalmente (el 91% de las
metas de desempeño clave se ha logrado).

Se ha establecido el nuevo marco normativo, se firmaron los convenios de gestión con 17 SILAIS, 32
hospitales y 152 centros de salud municipales. También se han establecido las nuevas políticas de salud
y un Plan Nacional de Salud para 2004-2015 después de extensas consultas con los diferentes sectores
del país, principalmente con organismos de la sociedad civil.

El MINSA ha desarrollado e institucionalizado con éxito un nuevo ciclo de presupuestación y
planificación "abajo hacia arriba," basado en las necesidades y los resultados a nivel local. Ha sido un
ejercicio importante para desarrollar las capacidades del MINSA y una herramienta crítica en la
planificación e implementación del Plan de Salud Quinquenal.

Se ha mejorado tanto la ejecución del presupuesto como la asignación de los recursos a las unidades del
MINSA; están sentadas las bases para abordar la asignación de los recursos en todo el sector y la



                                                  - 47 -

equidad financiera territorial.

El MINSA también ha reestructurado su sistema de gestión financiera, lo cual permite administrar el
presupuesto con mayor transparencia, efectividad y descentralización. Sin embargo, el sistema
financiero del MINSA (SIAFI) y el sistema financiero del GdN (SIGFA) todavía no se comunican entre
sí.

Aunque se han descentralizado las funciones de la gestión financiera hasta cierto grado, todavía se
necesita descentralizar otras funciones a las unidades ejecutoras (i.e. recursos humanos). También se
deben fortalecer los mecanismos de transferencia de riesgo para que los SILAIS asuman más
responsabilidad por los resultados de sus acciones.

El nuevo sistema de información del MINSA (SIMINSA) ha sido desarrollado e implementado
parcialmente. Sin embargo, las evaluaciones indican que se debe hacer más ajustes, se debe evaluar la
calidad de la información, se deben integrar mejor los módulos (SIPLA, SIAFI, producción) y se debe
ampliar el acceso al sistema a nivel local. Los directores hospitalarios son los que más se quejan de la
utilidad de esta herramienta.

De manera similar, los nuevos mecanismos de planificación y administración que ha establecido el
MINSA (planes y presupuestos anuales, convenios de gestión, gráficas administrativas) se deben
articular e integrar.

Aunque se ha establecido el marco legal, los instrumentos de contratación y la cultura institucional,
todavía se debe consolidar la institucionalización de una unidad de adquisiciones en el MINSA y se debe
asumir la responsabilidad por el desarrollo y el fortalecimiento de esta función.

La apropiación y la coordinación del Programa de Modernización del Sector Salud en las direcciones
generales del MINSA ha mejorado progresivamente con el transcurso de los años y se consideran
esenciales para el éxito del programa.


4. Impacto institucional

El impacto institucional del proyecto ha sido significativo desde muchos aspectos a saber:

(i)   La articulación de diferentes iniciativas en el área de la atención primaria en salud demostró tener
excelentes resultados al lograr sinergia entre las mismas. Se valora que la integración entre compromisos
de gestión que recogen la responsabilidad clara de los establecimientos de salud con la mortalidad
materna, acompañada de una mejor dirección y asignación de recursos para este fin (incluidos los
recursos para rehabilitación de infraestructura, equipamiento y fortalecimiento para gastos operativos),
aunados con estrategias que garantizan acceso a servicios de calidad como las casas maternas han sido
claramente decisivas para la reducción de muertes infantiles y perinatales.

(ii) Si bien es cierto, en los hospitales los resultados o impactos son observables en un horizonte de
tiempo más lejano y ellos en el establecimiento de prioridades corren en desventaja frente a las acciones
promocionales, preventivas y curativas de primer nivel de atención, fue evidente que siendo dotados de
una panoplia de instrumentos gerenciales y asistencia técnica básica para poderlas emplear, rápidamente
muestran resultados como lo fue el caso de la eliminación de endeudamientos sin fuertes incrementos de
volúmenes financieros, o mejorías en la satisfacción de los usuarios entrevistados acerca de los servicios
recibidos por el hospital; el mejor uso de los insumos médicos a partir de la protocolización y el
funcionamiento de comités de uso racional de insumos médicos; y en menor grado las disminuciones en
la mortalidad materna y perinatal, atribuida a uso de protocolos, articulación (aunque aún incipiente)
con el primer nivel de atención y análisis de fallecidos y la instauración de planes de mejoramiento


                                                  - 48 -

continuo de la calidad de la atención.

(iii) En el fortalecimiento de la institución como rectora sectorial se dieron avances al impulsar la
aprobación de la Ley General de salud y su Reglamento, que brinda un marco jurídico suficiente para la
operación del sector y la profundización de los procesos de reforma sectorial. A partir de este marco
jurídico se desprende una serie de elementos normativos y reglamentarios para la operacionalización de
los preceptos legales y el adecuado funcionamiento del sistema de salud en función del logro de sus
objetivos, incluyendo los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio.

          A partir del apoyo del PPA, el Ministerio de Salud ha podido iniciar los pasos para integrar los
          sistemas gubernamentales de manejo transparente de recursos a los sistemas internos que la
          institución necesita. Por otro lado, se ha impulsado un proceso de transformaciones de las
          formas tradicionales de asignación de recursos para dirigirse a formas más eficientes
          asignación de recursos y de pago de servicios, que generen equidad en la prestación de los
          servicios.

          Se cuenta con marcos de política, planes de largo plazo y un Plan Quinquenal de Salud que a
          la luz de las experiencias del Programa Modernización del Sector Salud en que se unieron dos
          grandes proyectos con financiamiento del Banco Mundial, BID y donaciones japonesa, del
          Fondo Nórdico para el Desarrollo y de NORAD, unidos a los fondos fiscales de contrapartida,
          ayudaron en la generación y construcción de un Enfoque Sectorial Amplio (SWAp por sus
          siglas en inglés), en el que se enmarcarán la mayoría de proyectos de cooperación con el campo
          de la salud nicaragüense.

          El SWAp promueve la formación de un fondo común de cooperantes (inicialmente los Reinos
          de Suecia y los Países Bajos, Finlandia, Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y Banco
          Mundial) denominado FONSALUD, el que apoyará las intervenciones de un programa de
          trabajo enmarcado en el Plan Quinquenal del Ministerio de Salud para el período 2005-2009 y
          fomentará los principios de alineamiento, armonización y cooperación de la ayuda en salud a
          través de la suscripción de un Código de Conducta y un Memorando de Entendimiento.


5. Factores que han afectado la implantación y los resultados

En Nicaragua se han desarrollado una gama amplia de intervenciones en atención primaria, las que
parten de estrategias diferentes y cuentan con financiamiento procedente de muchas agencias, tanto
bilaterales como multilaterales. La integración, simplificación y mejor focalización de estos programas e
intervenciones en la población más vulnerable es urgente.

La información demográfica no confiable y obsoleta (para establecer los denominadores) y las tasas
pequeñas han dificultado la evaluación de los resultados de estas intervenciones. Además, los informes
sobre la incidencia de las enfermedades y la producción de los servicios todavía no son confiables.

Los pagos per cápita, combinados con algún tipo de incentivos basados en resultados y actividades muy
específicos, han demostrado que son el mecanismo más poderoso para la compra de los servicios de
APS y asignación de los recursos fiscales.

A pesar que hubo avances en los procesos de negociación para el establecimiento y seguimiento de los
compromisos de gestión, es necesario avanzar precisando mejor y fortaleciendo la función de los
SILAIS en las contrataciones y procesos de seguimiento y evaluación. Los procesos de seguimiento y
evaluación de los compromisos deben ser fortalecidos y sistematizados.




                                                 - 49 -

A pesar que existe un planteamiento de descentralización en el MINSA, éste no ha tenido avances
significativos, en parte debido a un proceso de preparación de condiciones como capacidad gerencial en
cuanto a la programación y presupuestación, definición y consolidación de nuevas estructuras
presupuestarias negociadas con el Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público y construcción de los
instrumentos y herramientas para el control y seguimiento de recursos financieros. Por otra parte, se
debió realizar la definición del Modelo de Atención Integral en Salud (MAIS), para facilitar la
descentralización en forma integral, contemplando los aspectos de provisión, gestión y financiamiento de
los servicios de salud para beneficiarios del régimen no contributivo. Esto requirió de un proceso de
evaluación de las diferentes iniciativas y programas de apoyo a la atención primaria (13 modelos
diversos), a fin de poder impulsar en una nueva fase un conjunto de actividades y estrategias probadas
en su eficacia, eficiencia en las condiciones reales de los territorios.

Los problemas macroeconómicos del país se traducen en recortes presupuestarios inesperados que
realiza el Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público (MHCP), y generan falta de cumplimiento del
MINSA con los compromisos financieros y de suministro establecidos en los convenios de gestión. Esta
misma situación conlleva a la falta de incentivos directos para el personal de la salud por la
incertidumbre en la disponibilidad de los fondos, lo que ha sido identificado también como problemático.

La falta de correspondencia entre los compromisos de gestión y la asignación presupuestaria en cada
unidad se constituyen en elementos clave para la separación entre las funciones de provisión y compra
de servicios de salud.

La vinculación entre los dos niveles de atención dio elementos novedosos a la definición del Modelo de
Atención Integral en Salud (MAIS). La definición de un paquete básico de servicios de salud es un
factor que permitirá mejorar el acceso a los servicios de salud a la población vulnerable.

Existen deficiencias en cuanto a la capacidad en recursos de la División de Infraestructura y Desarrollo
Tecnológico, originada por el concepto manejado en algún momento que el Ministerio debería
deshacerse de estructuras fuera de su razón de ser como los centros formadores de recursos humanos
(escuelas politécnicas de salud) y otros como el plantel de ingeniería y mantenimiento, asumiendo que
eran funciones que se podrían "tercerizar". La experiencia ha demostrado que el Ministerio debe
conservar una plantilla mínima de recursos con amplios conocimientos de la infraestructura de salud y
de equipamiento médico e industrial que utiliza el sector salud a fin de poder conducir y aprobar los
diseños, las supervisiones de obras y las recepciones de obras así como en el caso del equipamiento.

En el transcurso del proyecto hubo que hacer esfuerzos de armonización dado que el proyecto fue
diseñado con indicadores para cada componente en forma aislada, pareciendo que ellos (los
componentes) se constituían en un proyecto independiente, lo cual se debió a que se trató de realizar
múltiples pruebas piloto en el proyecto y en algunos casos como en el Componente APS Nutrición se
impulsaron al menos cuatro de estas experiencias (modelo de gestión, extensión de cobertura con
ONG's, casas maternas y PROCOSAN), lo que incrementó el grado de dificultad en la ejecución.

Un hecho positivo que favoreció el logro de resultados fue el involucramiento de las estructuras de línea
del Ministerio a las actividades e intervenciones contempladas por el proyecto. Esto tuvo un correlato en
el éxito de la implantación de procesos gerenciales tanto en los hospitales como en las unidades de
primer nivel de atención (centros y puestos de salud).

Finalmente debe señalarse que la participación del Fondo Nórdico para el Desarrollo (FND) fue decisiva
en el tema de mejoramiento de la calidad de hospitales y en particular a la reducción de infecciones
intrahospitalarias al incorporarse con rubros no tradicionales para establecimientos de salud como lo son
la rehabilitación de la infraestructura en las áreas de servicios generales y su equipamiento (lavandería,
cocina, esterilización, generación de vapor) los cuales vinieron a sustituir los que se encontraban en las



                                                  - 50 -

unidades sin funcionar debido a su obsolescencia (más de 30 años de uso).


6. Sustentabilidad

La sostenibilidad de las mejoras es un tema importante en vista de las restricciones presupuestarias del
país y del sector en particular. Los programas de suministro de medicamentos, mantenimiento de equipo
y manejo de desechos son algunos ejemplos que indican lo difícil de mantener el nivel de gastos.

A nivel global, el elemento que cubre la sustentabilidad sectorial es la formulación del Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo, de la Estrategia Reforzada de Crecimiento Económico y Reducción de la Pobreza en su
segunda generación, los cuales dan cabida a la Política Nacional de Salud, el Plan Nacional de Salud
2004-2015 y de él, la Quinquenal de Salud 2005-2009. todo ello permite al sector avanzar en forma
segura a objetivos definidos de acuerdo con los recursos disponibles.

El fortalecimiento del liderazgo del MINSA como rector del sector tanto a nivel nacional, demostrado en
la elaboración del plan nacional de salud 2004-2015, como el la construcción del enfoque sectorial en
salud con que ha iniciado con 5 cooperantes que representan la mayor parte de la cooperación externa
con el MINSA, muestra las potencialidades para el logro de la sustetabilidad de las intervenciones
exitosas desarrolladas y que se buscan consolidar en el futuro próximo. Esto hace prever una mejor
utilización de la cooperación internacional en función de la consecución de resultados de salud a favor
de la población más vulnerable y encaminarse en forma decidida al cumplimiento de los Objetivos y
Metas del Milenio.

Los avances en la estructura programática presupuestaria y los nuevos modelos para la asignación
presupuestaria basados en resultados contribuirán a mejorar la utilización de los recursos con que se
cuenta y a asegurar la sustentabilidad de las intervenciones al fomentarse la eficiencia. Este proceso va a
requerir una aceleración de los procesos de descentralización hacia los proveedores, en la búsqueda de
una mejor utilización de los recursos en el nivel local en función de sus prioridades y de la producción
misma de los servicios.

Un tema a profundizar es el de los "servicios diferenciados" para los pacientes privados en los hospitales
públicos, a fin de que los ingresos apoyen las mejorías de la calidad de los servicios de dichos hospitales
y trabajar por la eliminación de los subsidios cruzados. En resumen, la reforma de la administración de
los hospitales todavía es incipiente y requiere una mayor institucionalización.

Las actividades de modernización institucional en función del desarrollo institucional se proyecta que se
concentren y articulen en función de la organización de la red de servicios de salud y de la provisión de
servicios, priorizando los procesos de extensión de cobertura a la población más vulnerable, sin acceso o
con acceso limitado a los mismos y a los grupos étnicos del país.


7. Desempeño del Banco y del Gobierno de Nicaragua

El equipo del Banco ha mantenido una franca y fraterna comunicación con el equipo del MINSA, tanto
de manera formal y programada por medio de las misiones de supervisión como fuera de programación,
siempre que se les ha solicitado apoyo técnico.

Las misiones fueron de mucha ayuda para el Ministerio debido al rigor técnico con que se desarrollaron,
lo que permitió ajustar e incorporar sus propuestas a los planes establecidos. En muchos casos se vieron
enriquecidas cuando se realizaron en forma conjunta con el equipo de seguimiento del Proyecto BID que
también apoyaba el Programa Modernización del Sector Salud.




                                                  - 51 -

El equipo de proyecto del Banco Mundial mostró flexibilidad ante el problema del "poco avance" técnico
y financiero mostrado en la evaluación de Medio Término 2002, que hacía del PMSS un proyecto "poco
satisfactorio", y estableció los "Benchmarks" para imprimir mayor dinamismo en la ejecución del
proyecto, lo cual mostró al final del proyecto su gran utilidad al lograr recuperar el tiempo perdido.
Además se extendió el plazo o fecha de cierre del proyecto para el año 2004.

Es de mucho valor la difusión a nivel internacional que el Banco ha hecho de las experiencias exitosas
del MINSA como es el caso de las Casas Maternas, que permite su implementación en países similares
al nuestro en función de la reducción de la mortalidad materna e infantil.

Respecto al apoyo del equipo financiero ha sido valorado positivo en el área de adquisiciones del Banco,
no así en el área financiera; que lamentablemente en los últimos 6 meses se convirtió en un cuello de
botella para la ejecución; quizá debida a la rotación de recursos técnicos del área en la coordinación del
proyecto en el país.


8. Lecciones aprendidas

Es fundamental la coordinación de acciones con todos y cada uno de los socios para el desarrollo en
función de informar y explicar la lógica, la sinergia y la magnitud e las intervenciones que cuentan con
financiamiento conjunto, tal fue el caso del Fondo Nórdico en el caso del Proyecto 3084.

Se debe evitar al máximo el trabajo con procedimientos diversos, ya que endentecen y burocratizan la
gestión de los proyectos y por tanto la ejecución de acciones y la entrega de servicios.

Se debe integrar los diferentes apoyos en una iniciativa que cuente con objetivos e indicadores comunes
para construir un proyecto o programa de intervención común que responda a las necesidades de la
población y no a los requerimientos de cada financiamiento.

El trabajo alrededor de un modelo único permite avanzar rápidamente como se mostró en el caso de la
gestión hospitalaria, pero en el caso de la APS fue más difícil el logro y la valoración de las experiencia
debido a su gran dispersión de iniciativas y enfoques (más de 10 modelos en implementación en el país y
muchos coexistiendo en un mismo territorio).

Es necesario dirigir el desarrollo institucional hacia los objetivos del sector ya que al dirigirlos hacia
objetivos propios de cada proceso (gestión financiera, gestión de recursos humanos) se corre el riesgo de
desarticularlos del verdadero apoyo a la razón de ser del sector (mejorar la salud, fomentar equidad y
dar satisfacción a los usuarios), pudiendo constituirse en verdaderos obstáculos al desarrollo sectorial.




                                                 - 52 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Components after 2001 Credit Amendment


Component                            Reason for change                      Change
Component A
First level care and Nutrition

A.1 Integrated Model of Maternal and Need to concentrate interventions      PHC interventions concentrated in
Child Care                           geographically; link investments to    six SILAIS and in 13 health centers
                                     performance and results and pilot      (13 municipalities);
                                     different approaches to achieve        Definition of a Basic Package of
                                     PDOs                                   Health Services (BPHS) by MINSA
                                                                            to be provided by NGOs.
A.2 Targeted Nutrition               Donors providing financial support     Elimination of food supplements
                                                                            Piloting a community health and
                                                                            nutrition program (PROCOSAN)
                                                                            based on growth promotion and
                                                                            education
A.3 Women Centers                    Align the output number with the       Reduction of the number of Women
                                     project implementation schedule        Centers from 12 to 10
A.4 Epidemiological Surveillance      ---                                   ---
A.5 Monitoring and Evaluation        -----                                  -----
Component B
Hospital Modernization

B.1 Management agreements            Need to focus on a reduced number      Subcomponent was not eliminated
                                     of interventions                       but there was not an output number
                                                                            set for additional management
                                                                            agreements to be signed with
                                                                            hospitals, besides the p four pilot
                                                                            hospitals
B.2 Hospital Rehabilitation Fund     Need to link physical investments to   Elimination of the open and
                                     performance and results                competitive nature of the subprojects
                                                                            to be financed, to concentrate
                                                                            investments in the 4 pilot hospitals
                                                                            and in other hospitals to be
                                                                            intervened by the project
B.3 Hospital Management              Need to focus and reduce extent of     Reduction of the number of hospitals
demonstration Project                project interventions                  to be intervened from five to four.
Component C MINSA Modernization
C.2 New Organizational and          Desire to support management           Introduction of performance-based
regulatory model                    modernization, linking allocation of   incentive pay-scheme, to be applied to
                                    resources to performance               in those hospitals and SILAIS
                                                                           undergoing modernization activities
Component D. INSS Reform              ---------                            ---------------
D.1 Institutional Modernization
D.2 Expansion of Health Insurance   Faster than expected implementation of Expansion of population coverage and
                                    activities                             benefit package to be provided
                                                                           Updating the capitation payments
                                                                           calculations
D.3 Workers Compensation            ----------                             --------------




                                                         - 53 -

Additional Annex 10. Trigger Indicators and Status of Compliance


           Trigger indicators                                           Status of compliance
Policy indicators
1.        New roles and responsibilities This goal was accomplished by the 1999 Law on Organization, Competence
defined for MINSA, and new                 and Procedures of the Executive. This law established more clear
organizational and functional structure    specialization of functions within the MOH. The MOH is devising and
established.                               implementing a second step re-structuring exercise since early 2004.
2.        Adequate legal framework         The Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmacy, in 1998, the General Health
supporting the development of MOH          Law, in 2002, and their regulations (Reglamentos), in 1999 and 2003
organization, pharmaceuticals, social      respectively, have been passed and enacted.
security, and private provision of health
services in place.
3.        Major changes introduced in      A bottom-up, activity-based budgeting exercise has been implemented by
resource allocation, with activity and     MOH since 2003, breaking up the old historical budget. This system has
performance-based management               been formalized in the budget structure and has been approved by the MOF.
agreements signed with SILAIS and          As a partial consequence of this, budget execution of the MOH has gone up
hospital directors.                        from 77% in 1999 to 99% in 2003. Management agreements have been
                                           signed in 2004 with all 17 SILAIS, 152 municipalities and 32 public
                                           hospitals for setting performance goals and identifying funding resources
4.        Separation of core business in INSS has effectively separated the administration and accounting of the three
INSS (including accounts and               plans. Affiliation has also accomplished the target since INSS beneficiaries
management), and number of policy          have increased from 259,506 in 1998 to 353,035 in 2004 (+36%).
holders increased by 20% (compared to
1998)
Implementation indicators
5.        Integrated Maternal and Child The Integrated Maternal and Child Care Model (Modelo de Gestión) has
care Model and nutrition interventions     been implemented in the 6 pilot SILAIS, under support of the APL. All 17
operational in 17 SILAIS.                  SILAIS now enter into annual management agreements with MOH to deliver
                                           the PHC services. The nutrition program has been implemented in 442
                                           communities, more than doubling the number planned, and has been taken
                                           up by other donors in 1,413 additional ones.
6.        National program to reduce       The program was designed in 2002 and implemented in the 11 beneficiary
maternal and perinatal mortality designedSILAIS of the APL. Maternal deaths went down in 13 pilot municipalities
(based on results from pilots)             from 21 in 2001 to 7 in 2004, and infant deaths from 213 in 2001 to 115 in
                                           2004.
7.        Management strengthened in       4 pilot hospitals have fully implemented the following management tools,
five hospitals.                            under APL support: strategic plans, management agreements, internal
                                           management agreements, management table-boards, quality improvement
                                           programs, nursing standard practices, and waste management plans. Some of
                                           these tools have been also replicated in four other "tutorized" hospitals. 2
                                           other national hospitals have implemented similar tools under IDB support.

8.        At least 30 hospital             In total 31 rehabilitation projects have been undertaken in the four pilot
rehabilitation projects implemented.       hospitals and the other 4 "tutorized" hospitals. Most of them concentrated on
                                           upgrading the critical path (emergency, operating rooms, obstetric and
                                           neonatology wards), bringing them to compliance with MOH minimum
                                           standards (habilitación).
9.        Management Information           Management information systems (management table-boards) are operational
System links to center operational from 8 in MOH hospitals and are been reviewed monthly by the MOH hospital
SILAIS.                                    directorate. SILAIS also operate with a reduced management table-board for
                                           supervising their PHC local providers.
                                           INSS has fully implemented an integrated FM system. As a result all
10.       Collective affiliation           financial transactions (payroll, accounting, inventory, budget, treasury,
substitutes individual affiliation in INSS human resources) are now interlinked and INSS has access to on time
and new financial management system in financial statements. Regarding the mode of affiliation individual affiliation,
place.                                     substituted collective affiliation starting in 1996 and was completed by 1998.




                                                               - 54 -

- 55 -

- 56 -

