Page  1
October 7, 1998
Mrs. Ingunn Klepsvik
Ambassador
Real Embajada de Noruega
Apartado Postal 2090
Managua, Nicaragua
Norwegian Grant Administration Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway 
(NORWAY)  represented by the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation 
(NORAD) and The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
Association (collectively, the Bank) for the administration of certain funds to be 
made available by NORAD to the Republic of Nicaragua (the Recipient) to support 
the Health Sector Modernization Project in Nicaragua.
Dear Madame:
We refer to the Cofinancing and Technical Assistance Framework Agreement 
between the Government of the Kingdom of Norway and the Bank dated March 9, 1994
(the 
Framework Agreement).
We acknowledge receipt of your letter dated April 7,1998 in which you, in 
accordance with Article IV (4) of the Framework Agreement, informed us of your decision 
to make available a grant of NOK 25.000.000 to finance the costs specified in the Grant 
Agreement to be entered between Norway and the Recipient. (the Grant Agreement), all 
substantially in accordance with the cofinancing terms stipulated in the Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement entered into between the Recipient and the International 
Development Association on July 8, 1998 (the DCA).
We agree to administer the aforementioned grant in accordance with the Framework 
Agreement.  Norway shall enter into a separate agreement with Nicaragua and furnish a copy 
to the Bank. The categories of expenditure eligible for financing under the Grant Agreement 
shall be those specified in the table on paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the DCA.
Pursuant to Article V(I)(c) of the Framework Agreement, Norway shall subject to 
Parliamentary appropriations make a first deposit into the T-Account (as defined in the 
Framework Agreement) not later than one month following its receipt from the Bank of an 
estimate of expenditures for the six months following the effective date of this letter 
agreement, in an amount equal to such Norway estimate.  Thereafter Norway shall replenish 
the T-Account at intervals of six months each.  Each replenishment shall be for an amount 
Page  2
equal to the estimate of expenditures for the period involved as submitted by the Bank to 
Norway.
We shall furnish to Norway statements of account with respect to the Grant funds 
together with any applicable auditors' reports pertaining thereto in accordance with Article 
V(1)(e) of the Framework Agreement. Retention by us of investment income to assist in the 
defrayment of the costs of administration and other expenses shall be made in accordance 
with Article V(1)(f) of the Framework Agreement.
The Bank shall facilitate and call annual meeting between itself, representatives of 
Nicaragua and all major donors to the Project, in order to discuss, internally, the progress 
and the future plans of budgets of the Project.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing, dating and returning to us 
the enclosed duplicate original of this letter.
This letter agreement shall become effective upon receipt by the Bank of the 
counter-signed copy hereof.
Sincerely,
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Country Managing Unit
Central America
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By: ______________________
Ingunn Klepsvik
Ambassador
Date: October 12, 1998
Page  3
