Report No. 676a-DO
Appraisal of a                                                     FILE COPY
Second Education Project
Dominican Republic
April 4, 1975
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document ot the International Bank tor Reconstruction and Development
International Development Associationi
This report wa- prepared for official use oniv by the Bank Group it may not
be published quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does
not accept responsiblAny for the accuracy or completeness ot the report



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Dominican Peso (RD$)
US$ 1.00 = RD$ 1.00
Measures and Equivalents
1 meter (m)           = 3.28 feet
1 sq. meter (i2)      - 10.8  sq. feet
1 kilometer (Km)      = 0.62 mile
1 sq. kilometer (1(m2) = 0.39 sq. mile
1 hectare (ha)        =  2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1   -   December 31
Scholastic Year
October 1 - July 30



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMM.RY AND CONCLUSICNS .................................   i
I.   INTRODUCTION   ...............  ,...... . ...... *# ........ l
II.  THE SOCIO-ECQNOMIC SETTING ...........................    2
Population and the Economy .........................   2
Manpower Requirements .     ............................    3
III.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING ....................3.....           3
The Formal System ...................   ...... ..   - 3
Primary Education ..............................    I4
Secondary Education ....... ..        .    .........   5
Higher Education ................................... ..   6
Nonformal Education and Training   . ..................   6
IV.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING NEEDS AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ...   7
V.  EDUCATION FINANCE            ....................  .................  10
VI.  THE PROJECT ...... *.............. *.. ..........2..2.
Project Strategy and Content .11
Elements of the Project         .12
Cost of the Project .17
Project Recurrent Costs.........  19
VII. IMPLEMENTATION                       ... 19
Administration ...... ... ..... .          ........  19
Professional Services .............................  19
Sities    o ........ ...... .. ....            ...   20
Procurement ....    . ... . ... .......... . .....  20
Disbursements .     ......... ...      .     ..    20
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  ..............    21



AN1'IEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Estimate of Annual Requirement of New Workers
3. Annual Requirement of New Workers by Skill Level
4. Education Expenditures 1969-1978
5. Present and Projected Output from Technical Education and Training System
6. Summary of Estimated Costs
7.  Contingency Allowances
8. Project Implementation Schedule
9. Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.  Structure of the Formal and Nonformal System of Education and Training
2.  Structure of the Secretariat of Education, Fine Arts and Religious Affairs
3. Education Pyramid
4. Enrollments in Primary Education
MAP



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
/1
BASIC DATA
1972
Area                                                      48,442 Km
Population
Urban                                               1.71 million  (40%)
Rural                                               2.52 million  (60%)
Total                                               4.23 million
Annual growth (1.960-1972)                                   2.8%
GNP (at market prices)f2                                  US$ 2,030.4 million
Per catita                                          US$   480.0
Annual growth in real terms (196-5-1972)                     5.0%
Literacy Rate                                                    51.0%
Urban                                                       66.0%
RLral                                                       41.0p
Including        Excluding
Enrollment Ratios                               Overage           Overage
Primary Education                            107                 80
- in urban areas                             118                 84
- in rural areas                             101                 77
Secondary Education                           21                 13.5
Higher Education                               7                  -
Edlucation Finance
Share of education in central government expenditures    13.9%
Education expenditures as proportion of GDP                  3.0%
- public                                                     2.5%
- private                                                    0.5%
/1   See also Annex 1
/A   Source:  Bank Atlas






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Bank Group's second education project
in the Dominican Republic, for which a loan of US$8.0 million is proposed.
The project would support the priority areas of the government's educational
development strategy and aims at (i) expanding and improving the provision
of education and training opportunities for the various segments of the
rural population, and (ii) developing an institutional framework for and
assisting in the efficient expansion of nonformal training to meet specific
manpower requirements in priority sectors of the economy and increase the
productivity of the labor force.
ii.       The national priorities for the development of thie education
sector were first articulated about five years ago. Two areas identified
as requiring priority consideration at that time were (a) the need for
reform in the structure and curriculum of secondary education, and (b) the
need for improvement of teacher qualifications at the primary level. The
first education project (Credit 235-DO, signed in February 1971) is designed
to support the government in implementing programs in these two priority
areas by introducing diversified education at the upper secondary level and
prevocational education at the lower secondary level and by improving primary
teacher training.
iii.      The government still attaches high priority to extending the
implementation of diversified secondary curricula so that an increasing
number of secondary level students (20% of secondary enrollment) will be
better prepared for middle level positions when they enter the labor force.
However, it also gives high priority to resolving additional major problems
facing the education/training system. One of them is the great inefficiency
and inequity in the provision of primary education. Only about 17% of
children entering the system complete all six grades and 65% drop out
before reaching maintainable literacy in the first three grades. In rural
areas, 80% of total enrollment is concentrated in the first three grades as
60% of the rural schools offer three grades or fewer and only seven out of
100 children enrolled in the first grade complete primary education. Of the
existing schools in rural areas, most are unsuitable for teaching and lack
ventilation and light. To correct this situation, the government intends
to introduce a new administrative and institutional framework for rural
education and training called the "educational nucleus." Based on a compre-
hensive school inventory and mapping operation, an educational nucleus
involves a school spacing and organization concept whereby there would be



- ii -
one central school, offering ulD to eight grades of basic education, surrounded
by several feeder six-grade schools. The latter would be fed by schools
that offer only the first four grades. The schools in each nucleus would
serve as community learning centers where nonformal education/training programs
for adults and out-of-school youths would also be carried out.
iv.       Another problem area is in the organization and administration of
nonformal education. There is a lack of coordination and some duplication
of training efforts exists with resultant wastage of funds. Training in
existing vocational training centers is poorly organized. As a result,
costs are high and there is a low utilization of facilities. Furthermore,
such training needs to be more responsive to manpower requirements. In rural
areas training programs do not cover many important agricultural areas where
settlement projects are being completed and where community training needs are
obvious. The government plans to strengthen nonformal training programs
so as to improve the skill profile of the labor force. In rural areas the
intent is to promote diversification of tihe village economy and provide
some basic skills to out-of-school youths and adults so that they may become
more self-reliant.  In urban areas the government plans to increase train-
ing opportunities for semi-skilled, skilled and supervisory personnel by
improving existing facilities and establishing new training centers in key
areas of economic activity. Mobile unit-based training schemes will be
established to provide training to populations living in small urban areas
where it is not economically viable to establish fixed institutions. Comple-
menting these activities, an advisory service will be established at the
enterprise level aimed at increasing employer participation in in-plant
training. In order to achieve a coordinated and efficient operation of
all training activities, a national vocational training entity would be
established. This would ensure tripartite participation (government, employers
and trade unions) in all policy making decisions and adequate financing of
the training scheme.
v.        The proposed project would help the government implement its plans
for educational development. It would assist in (i) initiating the new
school spacing and organization concept in 15 of the poorest rural areas
in the country, benefiting about 26,000 children, or 5% of the total rural
enrollment, and about 50,000 youths and adults in these communities;
(ii) extending the diversified curriculum introduced in secondary level
schools under the first education project; and (iii) expanding nonformal
training opportunities for farmers and for semi-skilled, skilled and super-
visory personnel. The project would consist of:
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i) 204 rural community learning centers within an institutional
framework of 15 educational nuclei;



- iii -
(ii)  14 lower secondary schools (equipment only);
(iii) 4 agricultural training centers;
(iv) 7 vocational training centers (2 new, 1 extension,
equipment for 4 and 8 mobile units).
(b)  Provision of technical assistance, comprising 12 man years of
specialist services and 12 man years of fellowships, to support
implenentation and operation of the above-listed project items.
(c)  A feasibility study on the local development and production of
textbooks and teaching aids; in-service teacher training; and
preparation of a possible third education project.
vi.        The project would provide for the establishment of 15 rural educa-
tion and training nuclei consisting of the construction and equipping of 325
classrooms, 88 workshops and 204 multipurpose rooms. About 30,000 students,
or 90% of the 7-14 age group in the area, would be enrolled in the project
nuclei (20,000 in the new project facilities and 10,000 in existing class-
rooms). No school would offer fewer than four years of schooling. In
addition, the nuclei are expected to serve (in coordination with the Office
of Community Development, the Mlinistries of Agriculture and Hlealth, and the
Office of Labor Schools) about 50,000 out-of-school youths and adults through
the organization of acceleratec. primary education courses and special, short
training programs. The government and the Cooperative for American Relief
Everywhere (CARE) will continue to provide food and funds for the implementation
of a nutrition program for the children, with the project providing appropriate
space for this purpose in each school. In order to provide educational
opportunities to the dispersed rural population, teachers in about 50% of
the project schools (those consisting of one or two classrooms) would simul-
taneously teach several grades. To accomplish this, multigrade teaching
techniques would be introduced in both the teacher training and upgrading
programs.
vii.       To support the government's continuing effort to extend the
aitroduction of the diversified secondary school curriculum, the project
would provide equipment for 14 existing lower secondary schools (grades
7-10) enrolling about 26,000 students (15% of total secondary enrollment).
Equipment would be provided for 36 science laboratories, 22 industrial arts
workshops, and 22 home economics workshops and social scifnce laboratories.
Books and audio visual aids would also be provided. The training of teachers
for the vocational subjects is currently carried out with the assistance of
a specialist financed under the first education project, and science teachers
arc being satisfactorily trained in three universities under a UNDP/UNESCO
project.
viii.     To meet the training requirements of farmers, the project would
provide for the construction and equipping of four new agricultural training
centers, to be located in areas where projects in irrigation and introduction
of new crops are being implemented. A total of 3,000 persons would be trained



- iv -
annually. These centers would offer short courses in new agricultural produc-
tion techniques for farmers and in health, nutrition, child care, family
planning, home management, clothing and home industries for women.  They
would also function as information centers on such matters as agricultural
credit, farmers' organizations and cooperatives, marketing of products, etc.
ix.       To improve the training of semi-skilled and skilled workers and
of supervisory staff, the project would provide for: (i) the construction,
furnishing and equipping of two new vocational centers (315 places), and the
extension of an existing vocational training center (from 210 to 315 places);
(ii) equipment for four existing vocational centers; and (iii) eight mobile
training units. The proposed project items would permit the establishment
and implementation of a national vocational training scheme, and appropriate
legal measures would be taken to establish the scheme and provide financing
for it. All centers would operate on the basis of two intakes per year for
full-time accelerated training courses, and upgrading training for employed
workers would be held in the evenings. By 1980, about 2,700 adults wqould be
trained annually in accelerated courses and 3,300 workers upgraded. Accelerated
training courses would be offered for unemployed adults and dropouts from
the education system. Upgrading training of employed workers, including
supervisors and middle level management, would be organized to improve the
skill profile of the labor force, increase earnings potential and promote
mobility.  Upgrading would be carried out by vocational training centers
and by mobile training units, which would circulate to towns too
small to justify the construction of a center. All training for the modern
sc£tor would be based on occupational analysis, and flexibility would be
ensured through the use of short, self-contained training modules. For the
rural areas, mobile units composed of instructors and equipment would cir-
culate from community to community, giving a variety of short courses in
rural construction, carpentry, cottage industries, operation of farm machinery
and home sewing. An evaluation procedure and student placement and tracer
mechanisms would be built in these institutions.
x.        To help implement the above components, the project would include
12 manyears of specialist services and 12 man/years of fellowships. The
specialists would assist the government in proposing the legal framework for
the national vocational training scheme, in reorganizing the OEfice of Labor
Schools, and in planning, organizing and implementing the varLous types of
training provided under the project. In addition, one man/year of specialist
services would be provided to assist the statistics department of the Secret-
ariat of Education in data collection and analysis.
xi.       The total project cost is estimated at US$13.5 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$7.6 million, or 56% of total cost.  The
proposed loan of US$8.0 million would be equivalent to about 59% of total
project cost. Prices as of January 1975 were used to estimate the base costs,
to which a contingency allowance of 40% has been added.



xii.      The Project Unit responsible for iFiplementing the first education
project would continue to serve as tile implementing agency for the proposed
second oroject.  It would be strengthened by the appointment of an additional
architect and an educator to supervise execution of construction work, prep-
aration of equipment lists, and implementation of education objectives of
the project. The Secretary of Agricultulre and the Presidency would each
appoint a high level officer to be responsible for the technical aspects of
implementation of the related project components and for liaison with the
Project Unit.
xiii.     Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Since most of the civil works are of a
small size, scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors are not
expected to participate; but they would not be precluded from bidding.
Prequalification of contractors would be required in advance of bidding to
ensure qualified bidders and efficient work. Contracts for procurement of
furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding. However, furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped
in packages of at least US$5,000 wqould be procured on tne basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with the Borrower's regular
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank; this would not,
in the aggregate, exceed US$320,000 equivalent or 10% of the total cost of
furniture and equipment.
xiv.      With the agreement reached during negotiations and set out in
Section VIII, the project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$8.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Dominican Republic for a
period of 30 years, including a grace period of 10 years.






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Dominican Republic has requested Bank assis-
tance in the financing of a project addressing its highest priority needs
in the education sector. The total cost of the proposed second education
project, for which a Bank loan of US$8.0 million is proposed, is estimated at
US$13.5 million. This would be the Bank Group's second education project in
the country. An IDA credit for education (Credit 235-DO, signed in February
1971), amounting to US$4.0 million equivalent, is assisting the Government of
the Dominican Republic in (i) implementing a reform of secondary education
through the establishment of a diversified curriculum in new multilateral
secondary schools, and (ii) improving primary teacher training. Implementation
of this project is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected to be completed
prior to the closing date of December 31, 1975.
1.02      The proposed second education project would provide for (i) the
expansion and improvement of education and training opportunities in the
rural areas by the establishment of rural community learning centers offering
formal and nonformal education/training to children and adults; (ii) agricul-
tural training centers to serve practising farmers and other adult rural popu-
lation; (iii) improvement in the quality of education at the secondary level
(a follow-up of the first education project) by extending the diversified
curriculum from 5% to 20% of the students enrolled in secondary education;
and (iv) the expansion and improvement of vocational training opportunities
to meet the needs of the country for skilled and semi-skilled manpower.
1.03      Sector work in connection with the proposed project was carried
out in August 1973 by a UNESCO mission. The initial discussions with the
government on the possible composition of a second education project commenced
in April 1974, when a Bank mission agreed with the government on the
possible items to be included. In June 1974, with the assistance of UNESCO,
the government prepared the project. It was appraised in July 1974 by a
Bank mission consisting of Messrs. A. Freire (general educator), R. Hemingway
(technical educator), C. Vidalon (agricultural educator), M. Meyer (economist,
YP), and L. Secco (architect, consultant).



- 2 -
II. THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Population and the Economy
2.01      Population growth in the Dominican Republic slowed down from 3.6%
to 2.8% per year during the past decade, due to increased emigration and a
lower birth rate. Of the population of 4.2 million (1972 estimate), about
48% is under 15 years of age and 60% lives in rural areas. The illiteracy
rate, estimated at 49% for the country as a whole, reaches 59% in the rural
areas.
2.02      During 1969-71 the economy sustained an average annual growth rate
of 10.7%. High volume and prices for the main agricultural exports (parti-
cularly sugar), an ambitious public investment program, and the restored
confidence of domestic and foreign investors were responsible for this
evolution of the economy. Agriculture accounted for 23% of the GDP; mining,
manufacturing and construction, 25%; and services accounted for the remaining
52%.
2.03      The high growth rate of agriculture, mainly benefiting the large
farms, has not affected the living conditions of the majority of the rural
population. The peasants' income, whether they own small farms or work in
seasonal crop jobs, is at the subsistence level. In recent years, the
government has been giving rural development a high priority. Investment is
being made in the basic agricultural infrastructure: irrigation, roads,
storage, and rural electrification. Also, small scale farming is being
directly assisted through settlements sponsored by the land reform agency
(Instituto Agrario Dominicano), the formation of cooperatives, provision of
crop credits, training programs, extension and conmunity development
services. The efficiency of these efforts, however, is greatly hampered by
a lack of coordination among the different institutions involved and by the
limited number of agricultural training programs.
2.04      The rapid expansion of industrial investment since 1968, mainly in
the Santo Domingo area, has not been accompanied by a corresponding increase
in industrial employment, which is growing at only a slow rate due to the
application of capital-intensive techniques. This trend is likely to be
modified in the future since efforts are being made to decentralize indus-
trial investment and favor more labor-intensive techniques. Duty-free zones
and industrial estates attracting small and medium sized industries have
been established since 1972 in the south (La Romana, San Pedro de Macoris,
Santo Domingo) and recently in the north around Santiago, the second largest
city. Furthermore, tourism is being promoted along the north coast of Puerto
Plata and in the south at Boca Chica.



-3-
Manpower Requirements
2.05      Higher skill levels for the 350,000 small farmers are an essential
element in improving productivity and alleviating the poor living conditions
in rural areas. The effectiveness of existing programs in extending modern
farming methods is greatly hampered by the limited training facilities. The
farmer training centers, with a capacity of 3,000 per year, are insufficient
in view of the important ongoing and future agricultural development programs.
2.06      Pending completion of an extensive manpower study financed by the
IDB, on the basis of past trends it is estimated that during the present decade
21,000 to 26,000 jobs per year will be created in mining, manufacturing,
construction, transport and communications, and that 8,000 to 10,000 of them
will be for skilled and semi-skilled workers (Annexes 2 and 3). Sizable job
creation is expected in manufacturing-through the application of more rational
criteria for government-financed private investment (especially through the
investment fund administered by the Central Bank) and through the expansion of
industrial estates and duty-free zones. In construction, the high level of
recent activity is likely to continue, with high investments in tourism (8,000
new jobs will be created by 1979 according to ILO estimates) and expanded
programs in agricultural infrastructure, highway maintenance, and housing.
2.07      While there is an abundant supply of unskilled labor, there is a
shortage of adequately trained manpower.  The skill attainments of the labor
force are low, resulting in 16w productivity. In construction, the needs are
paxLicuiaLly flighL to- qU alifLed pIlum0bers, electricians, pipe fitters, mechanics
and equipment operators. In manufacturing, employers complain about the lack
of adequately trained foremen and supervisors and the long period of adaptation
needed by workers to assimilate new functions. The annual output of existing
training institutions reaches only about 1,000 at the semi-skilled, skilled
and middle levels and there is no provision for worker upgrading. Furthermore,
the content of training is unrelated to the needs of Dominican enterprises.
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Formal Education System
3.01      The educational structure in the Dominican Republic consists of
pre-primary, six years of primary education followed by six years of second-
ary education, and higher education with courses of two to seven years in
post-secondary institutions and in universities (Chart 1). At the secondary
education level, as a result of the 1970 reform the traditional system of
two years' basic cycle followed by four years of upper cycle coexists with
the reform system of four years' basic cycle and two years' diversified
cycle.  The reform at the lower secondary level (grades 7-10) is aimed at



-4-
introducing the student to a range of practical, prevocational activities
in such areas as industrial arts, commerce and agriculture. At grades 11
and 12 the diversified secondary education program is aimed at preparing
students for entry to middle level occupations in the industrial, commercial,
nursing and services sectors, as well as for entrance to higher education.
3.02      Educational administration is centralized.  The Secretariat of
Education (Chart 2) is responsible for administering, supervising and financ-
ing all Dublic primary and secondary schools; subsidizing most of the
private educational institutions at all levels; and supervising private
schools below the university level. Policy making is the responsibility of
the National Council of Education, which consists of representatives of the
Secretariats of Education, Agriculture and Health, the teaching profession and
the private sector. The universities are autonomous. Within the Secretariat
of Education the Directorate General of Planning and Budgeting is responsible
for education planning, curricula development, financing, and collection
and processing of statistics.  School supervision is organized in 15 depart-
ments, with a total of 125 districts. Most of the nonformal education and
training activities are under the administration of other Secretariats (Agri-
culture, Health, Defense), the Presidency, and autonomous and private agencies.
Primary Education
3.03      Enrollment in primary schools in 1973 was 850,000 (Charts 3 and 4),
of which only an estimated 170,000 were of the appropriate age for their
grade.  About 17% of the children entering the system completed all six grades,
and 65% dropped out before reaching maintainable literacy at fourth grade.
In rural areas, 30% of total enrollment was concentrated in the first three
grades, and only seven out of 100 enrolled in the first grade completed
primary education.
3.04      This inefficiency in primary education is due to the large number
of repeaters (40% of first grade enrollment in rural schools), overage
children entering the system, retention of children in schools offering only
one or two grades, and the traditional year-end examinations. About 60% of
rural schools offer three grades or fewer and only 12% offer all six grades.
The majority of the school buildings are in poor condition; classrooms are
small and inadequate for the establishment of the multigrade teaching system,
which is essential if education opportunities are to be extended to the
dispersed rural population. Moreover, children are discouraged from attend-
ing because of the great walking distance between school and village. Quali-
fied teachers are scarce in rural areas, representing 9% of the total
compared with 31% in urban areas. Furthermore, supervision of the rural
schools is limited due to their remoteness and to a lack of funds for travel.
Teaching materials scarcely reach the rural schools, and the few books avail-
able to students are provided at the expense and sacrifice of their parents.



-5-
Secondary Education
3.05      Enrollment in secondary schools (grades 7-12) in 1973 was 143,000,
which corresponds to about 21% of the 13-18 age group. Ahout 30% of the
secondary students attended private or semi-private schools. During the
past five years, enrollment increased at an average rate of 12.3% per year.
3.06      Efficiency in general secondary education is low, as repeaters
and overage students comprise 52% of the total enrollment and only 48% of
first year entrants complete the six-year course. There are presently 15
public and six private lower secondary schools functioning on the reform or
diversified curriculum, but all are poorly equipped for the teaching of the
practical courses. The only facilities for implementing the reform will be
provided by the 12 schools included in the first education project (Credit
235-DO), with a capacity for about 10,000 students (5% of total secondary
enrollment), which will be in operation in 1975.
3.07      Technical secondary education, industrial and commercial, accounts
for 8% of total secondary enrollment and for the most part is the responsi-
bility of the private sector, although the government subsidizes it and the
Secretariat of Education provides limited pedagogic supervision. The drop-
out rate is high, with only about one out of six entrants completing the
course; for example, in 1972 there were only some 1,000 graduates out of a
total of more than 11,000 students in the three- to four-year course. This
low efficiency is due to the excessive length of the course, the lack of
selectivity in student recruitment and other poor admission procedures, and
frequent interruptions of studies due to student unrest. The internal effi-
ciency of this type of education is likewise poor, as the curriculum is
unresponsive to occupational needs and, although most graduates obtain
employment, intensive on-the-job training is required.
3.08      Teacher t,rini  for primary school teachers is also provided at
this level of education (grades 11-12). The provision of such training has
been inadequate. Present enrollment is about 700 and annual output 300,
while the demand for teachers during the past three years has averaged 800
per year. The deficit has been made up by the employment of unqualified
personnel. However, the first education project is providing 1,350 new
student places and output is expected to increase to 950 annually by 1982,
commensurate with the estimated need for new teachers.  The curriculum used
in teacher training is biased toward urban teaching, but btecause of the high
priority given by the government to rural primary education it is now being
revised. It will include the training of teachers in the techniques of
multigrade teaching and also in community education (health, nutrition,
organization of cooperatives).
3.09      The teaching staff in all types of secondary education institutions
numbers about 4,500, of wqhom only 20% is qualified. There is an acute short-
age of teachers of science and vocational subjects. Except in schools operat-
ing with the reform curriculum, the teachers are paid by the hour and in order



to earn a reasonable salary they have to teach in several schools.  This
affects teaching efficiency and reduces the teachers' involvement in school
activities and in personal guidance to students.
Higher Education
3.10      Five universities offer courses at the post-secondary level, rang-
ing from regular four- to seven-year degree courses to short, two- to three-
year higher level technician courses. Total enrollment reached 33,800 in
1972, corresponding to more than 7% of the relevant age group. Only 5,900,
representing 17% of the total, were enrolled in the faculties of engineering
and architecture. Courses leading to agricultural and veterinary science
degrees are offered in three universities, with an enrollment of 1,100 in
1972. Annual output is about 250, which is in excess of the estimated pro-
fessional requirements for the next ten years.
3.11      Secondary school teachers are trained in the Faculties of Education
of three universities. Although enrollments reached 2,700 in 1972, graduates
--numbering 136--are far short of the demand, which is expected to reach
400 per year by 1978. The teacher training program is being expanded, mainly
in science, mathematics and technical subjects, with assistance provided by a
UROP/UNESCO project.
Nonformal Education and Training
3.12      Various nonformal education and training schemes have been organized
by public and private agencies. Because of a lack of coordination some dupli-
cation occurs, with resultant wastage of funds. The Secretariat of Education
provides three-year accelerated primary education courses for adults. About
1,000 such courses were operating in 1972, with an enrollment close to 22,000.
In addition, literacy programs of four months' duration are offered to some
11,000 participants yearly. Also, through a successful radio and correspon-
dence program implemented by a nonprofit church organization and supervised
by the Secretariat of Education, about 15,000 adults receive basic nonformal
education annually. The radio program covers both primary and lower secondary
education, and during the 1971-73 period 8,500 persons successfully completed
this program.
3.13      Short courses of one to four weeks' duration for technical agricul-
tural staff, farmers, homemakers and young farmers are offered by the IIinistry
of Agriculture and religious organizations. The rural population has responded
favorably to these programs. Elowever, the programs do not cover many impor-
tant agricultural areas where settlement projects are being implemented and
where the irrigation of new areas or the introduction of new crops under the
diversification program requires the adoption of new techniques by the farmers;
hence an extension of the farmer training program to these areas is urgently
needed. Several other public and private agencies offer rural training



-7-
programs in agricultural production techniques, credit and marketing, manage-
ment, formation of cooperatives, home economics, and family planning. Note-
worthy among these agencies is the Community Development Office of the Office
of the Presidency, which is implementing some development programs in rural
communities. However, due to a lack of funds and instructors, the training of
peasants in artisan techniques has not yet been carried out successfully.
This program is expected to be strengthened under the proposed national train-
ing scheme.
3.14      The main sources of artisans and skilled and semi-skilled workers
are the accelerated vocational training centers located in Bani, San Pedro
de M4acoris, Barahona, La Romana and Santo Domingo. With the exception of
the center in Bani, financed by the Armed Forces, and one of the centers
in Santo Domingo financed and supervised by the Dominican Institute of
Social Security (IDSS), they are all financed by the Office of tl-he Presidency
and administered by the Office of Labor Schools. Courses varying in duration
from nine to 15 months are offered to adults, 16 years of age and over, in
22 trades in the mechanical, electrical, construction and services fields.
Output has been increasing from 142 in 1966 to 1,030 in 1973 (out of which
about 100 were for the Armed Forces); however, the number of graduates is
stlll too low to satisfy national needs.  Although the graduates easily obtain
employment, often through the official placement service, the cost of training
is high due to poor organization and low utilization of facilities. Further-
more, such training would be more effective if it were more responsive to
manpower requirements.  This has led several enterprises in the private sector
to nrgn,4!e 4eoc_eonali-sr.,4C^e courses for upgrading their personnel.
3.15      If this sector is to meet efficiently the demands of the economy
for trained manpower, an appropriate institution is needed to develop a
national training strategy, ensure coordination of all vocational training
action, and develop training standards.
IV. EDUCATION AND TRAINING NEEDS AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
4.01      The government's priorities for the development of the education
sector were first articulated about five years ago in its "Platform for
Economic and Social Development of the Dominican Republic." Two areas
identified as requiring priority consideration at that time were (a) the need
for reform in the structure and curriculum of secondary education and (b)
the need for improvement of teacher qualifications at the primary level. The
first education project (Credit 235-DO, signed in February 1971) is designed
to support the government in implementing programs in these two priority areas
by introducing diversified education at the upper secondary level and pre-
vocational education at the lower secondary level, and by improving primary
teacher training.



- 8 -
4.02      The government continues to attach high priority to extending the
implementation of diversified secondary curricula so that an increasing number
of secondary level graduates will be better prepared for middle level posi-
tions when they enter the labor force.  The target is to have, by 1980, 20%
of secondary enrollment in diversified education; of these, 5% would be provided
under the first project and the remainder would be met by the proposed project.
The government has also developed more comprehensive views on the education
and training needs of the various segments of the population and the manpower
requirements of the different economic sectors in line with the priorities
of the economic development plan. W4hile a more systematic presentation of
these views is expected to be discussed in the education plan under prepara-
tion, the government is giving high priority to (a) improvement of education
and training in rural areas; and (b) expansion of nonformal vocational training.
4.03      In the formal education system the government's major objective is
improvement of efficiency in primary schools, rather than enrollment expansion.
The national targets for 1982 are to have in the urban areas 74% of the children
entering first grade complete primary education and in the rural areas 68%.
To carry out this policy the government is planning to implement a series of
measures, including the completion of incomplete primary schools as a first
priority to provide opportunities for children to have at least four years of
schooling, the training and upgrading of teachers in multigrade teaching
and community education, and the provision of textbooks and teaching materials.
4.04      Based on a comprehensive school inventory and mapping operation,
the government intends to introduce a new administrative and institutional
framework for rural education and training called the "educational nucleus."
An educational nucleus would consist of one central school offering up to eight
grades of basic education, surrounded by several feeder six-grade schools.
The latter would be fed by schools that offer only the first four grades.
iNo school in an educational nucleus would offer fewer than four years of
schooling, which is considered the minimum for attaining functional literacy.
The schools in each nucleus would serve as community learning centers where
nonformal education and training would also be carried out. The director of
the nucleus would be the principal of the central eight-grade school; thus
he would in addition supervise the teachers of the other schools in the
nucleus, identify community training needs, and coordinate interagency
initiatives and action to meet these needs. This school spacing and organizing
concept would first be applied in 15 of the poorest rural areas in the country,
each with a population of about 10,000 inhabitants. About 26,000 children
(5% of total rural enrollment) would benefit from this action. In their
function as community learning centers the schools would also provide a range
of opportunities for out-of-school youths and adults in accelerated primary
education, literacy and work-oriented training. Some 50,000 youths and adults
in each nucleus are expected to benefit from these programs each year.
4.05      Upgrading courses, already functioning, for unqualified primary
teachers would be expanded so that 90% of all teachers would be qualified
by 1983. Because of the higher salaries (about 40% higher) paid to graduate
teachers, primary teachers would have an incentive to become qualified.
This should improve the quality of education offered in rural areas, where



- 9 -
most of the teachers are unqualified.  In order to furthier improve the quality
of teaching, the government plans include the adequate provision of teaching
aids to schools and students. In this regard, the government attaches high
priority to the preparation of a plan for the production and distribution
of teaching naterials and textbooks to meet the needs of the whole education
system.  The preparation of this plan requires technical assistance, which
would be provided under the proposed project.
4.06      In rural areas the government plans to promote diversification of
the village econony. It would strengthen nonformal training programs and
provide some basic skills to out-of-school youths and adults so that they
might become more self-reliant. Further extension of the successful farmer
training programs being carried out by the Secretariat of Agriculture is
planned. Six additional agricultural training centers would be provided in
regions of the country not presently serviced by such centers and where
settlement projects, irrigation schemes and crop diversification programs
require farmer training in production and marketing techniques. TQo of
these centers are under construction and the other four would be financed
under the proposed project. In addition, the peasants, male and female, would
be given courses in basic skills and artisan techniques by mobile training
teams organized in conjunction with the national vocational training scheme.
4.07       In urban areas the -overnment plans to increase training oppor-
tunities for semi-skilled, ski.led and supervisory personnel by improving
the facilities and establishing new training centers in key areas of economic
activity. To this end, a hotel training school, financed under the IBRD
tourism project, is to be built in Puerto Plata to satisfy manpower needs
for the developing tourist industry; two new vocational training centers are
to be built in Santiago and San Francisco de 'Mlacoris; and the national voca-
tional training center in Santo Domingo is to be extended. Furthlermore,
through improvement in organization and utilization of facilities, the exist-
ing training centers in Barahona, Bani, San Pedro de ]Aacoris and La Romana
will offer more courses.  As a result of these measures the annual output of
trained workers will increase from 1,000 to 2,700. Training will also be
organized, using mobile units, for populations living in small urban areas
where it is not economically viable to establish fixed institutions. Comple-
menting these activities, an advisory service will be established at the
enterprise level aimed at increasing employer participation in in-plant
training.
4.08      The government is aware that the development of a national voca-
tional training scheme and the coordination of services and facilities on the
expanded scale discussed earlier (paras. 3.14 and 3.15) will require the estab-
lishment of a national vocational training entity that would ensure adequate
financing and tripartite participation (government, employers and trade
unions) in all policy making decisions. Overall authority to carry out this
training scheme would be vested in a Governing Council that would be respon-
sible for policy making in accordance with the manpower needs of the economy.
Under this Governing Council, sectoral subcommittees would be established to



- 10 -
supervise and evaluate specific programs such as rural training, hotel manage-
ment and catering training. The execution of the programs would be the respon-
sibility of the existing Office of Labor Schools, which would be expanded
and reorganized for this purpose.
V. EDUCATION FINANCE
5.01      In 1972 total expenditures for education amounted to RD$ 56 mil-
lion, representing 3.0% of GDP (Annex 4). The public sector contributed
83% of this amount. The public education share of the central governmentts
expenditures in 1969 reached 15.9%. Subsequently, education spending did
not keep pace with the high growth rates and rapidly increasing government
revenues, and it declined to 13.9% of budget expenditures and 2.5% of GDP
in 1972. This spending is low compared with that in countries at a similar
development level. Two main factors explain this difference: the low
salary level for teachers, especially unqualified rural teachers, and the
minimal expenditure (1.4% of the Secretariat of Education's recurrent budget)
on teaching materials and textbooks.
5.02      Public education is free except for university, where a nominal
fee is levied; however, parents have to purchase teaching materials and
expensive textbooks. Since those with low incomes cannot afford these
expenditures, the quality of education received in the poorer sections
of the urban areas and in the rural areas is unsatisfactory. A major
incentive for primary school attendance is a school nutrition program run
by private institutions and financed mainly by international organizations
and the government.
5.03      The government heavily subsidizes private schools through a global
subsidy or by paying salaries to the teachers and administrative personnel
and/or providing scholarships for some students. In the few schools with
boarding facilities, the scholarships cover the cost of boarding. There is
a loan fund for university students. Private school fees vary and range
up to RD$ 600 annually.
5.04      There is an imbalance in the distribution of education expendi-
tures.  In 1972 about 44% was allocated for primary, 19% for general secondary,
6% for vocational, 21% for universities, and the remaining 10% for general
administration and other programs (Annex 4). Spending for vocational and
general secondary education is low in view of the importance of these educa-
tional levels for the provision of middle level manpower. Recurrent costs
per student are low, amounting to PD$ 21 in primary and RD$ 65 in general
secondary schools. This is mainly due to the salaries of unqualified primary
school teachers, wzho account for about 70% of the total teaching force. The
median primary teacher salary, which amounts to three times the GNP per
capita, is low compared with countries at similar levels of development. In
vocational schools unit costs are much higher, ranging from RD$125 to
RD$1,100, and need to be reduced through more efficient use of resources.



- 11 -
5.05      During 1966-71, external assistance for education amounted to RD$5.3
million and consisted mainly of technical assistance for improvements in
post-secondary education programs. Since 1972 the scope of external assis-
tance has broadened, with emphasis on secondary education, teacher training,
educational planning, and agricultural education. The average annual disburse-
ments for 1972-76 are estimated at RD$2.8 million.
5.06      The financial implications of the government's specific education
policies and of the trends are that global public education expenditures
will grow at the sam.e rate as CDP (6.2% annually in real terms, according
to Bank estimates for 1973-78). However, the education share in the central
government's budget may decrease from 13.9% in 1972 to 13.1% in 1973 if
government revenues increase at the expected high rate of 7.2% annually.
Thus the government should be able to improve substantially the quality of
teaching through higher spending on teacher's salaries, teaching supplies,
overhead and equipment. By increasing the proportional expenditures on
teaching materials, maintenance and overhead in public primary and secondary
education up to 15% of total recurrent expenditures at these levels, the
share of education in the 1978 budget would increase to a reasonable 14,%.
VI. THE PROJECT
Project Strategy and Content
6.01      The proposed project is designed to support the priority areas of
the government's education and training development strategy. The project
would assist in (a) establishing rural community learning centers; (b) equip-
ping secondary schools to extend the implementation of the reform curriculum:
(c) expanding agricultural training opportunities; (d) establishing a national
vocational training scheme; and (e) providing funds for a feasibility study
for local development and production of textbooks and teaching aids. Speci-
fically, the project would comprise:
(i) Construction, furnishing and/or equipping of educational insti-
tutions as outlined in the table below:



- 12 -
Type of                 Number                           Boarding    Staff
Instituion         New   Extension   Student Places       Places    Housing
(a) Rural Community
Learning Centers  132        72            10,400           120        15
(b) Lower Secondary
Schools            -         14              -              -          -
(c) Agricultural
Training Centers    4        -                140           140         8
(d) Vocational
Training Centers    2         2               630           -
(ii) Teacher upgrading programs for (a) above and technical assistance
comprising 12 man/years of expert services and 12 man/years of
fellowships.
(iii)  A feasibility study for the local development and production of
textbooks and teaching aids and the preparation of a possible
third education project.
Elements of the Project
6.02     'Rural Communi   Learning  Centers. This project item,would assist
in establishing 204 Rural Community Learning Centers within an institutional
framework of 15 educational nuclei (para. 4.04). It would comprise the con-
struction and equipping of 325 classrooms, 88 workshops, 204 multipurpose
rooms, 15 administrative library spaces, 15 staff houses, and six boarding
units for 20 teacher trainees each. The rural areas selected for the estab-
lishment of these 15 educational nuclei have an average population of 10,000
inhabitants and are the most disadvantaged in terms of income level and
provision of educational and training facilities. Some of these areas are
new settlements under the agrarian reform and colonization program, and the
majority have great agricultural development potential.
6.03      About 30,000 students, or 90% of the 7-14 age group in these areas,
would be enrolled in the 204 Rural Community Learning Centers in two shifts
(20,000 in the new project facilities and 10,000 in existing classrooms).
No center would offer fewer than four years of schooling. Centers with six-
grade schools would have a workshop, with a capacity of 20 students, equipped
with simple tools for practical work. In order to increase efficiency,
automatic promotion would be introduced within grades one to four and from
grade five to six. The government, with assistance from CARE (Cooperative
for American Relief Everywhere), would continue to provide food and funds for
the implementation of a nutrition program for school children, hence each
center would be provided with appropriate space for this purpose.



- 13 -
6.04      In addition to the formal primary education to be provided to about
30,000 children, the centers are expected to serve about 50,000 out-of-school
youtihs and adults tlhrough thle organization of accelerated primary education
courses and special short training programs in plumbing, bricklaying, carpentry,
operation of farm machinery, handicrafts, and home sewing (para. 6.16).  The
planning of the nonformal education and training programs for adults and
out-of-school youths in the centers would be the responsibility of the adult
education department of the Secretariat of Education in coordination with the
Office of Community Development (ODC), the Secretariat of Agriculture, the
Office of Labor Schools, and the Secretariat of Health.
6.05      Teachers for the Rural Community Learning Centers would be trained
in the teacher training institutions being completed under the first educa-
tion project (Credit 235-DO). The proposed project would provide simple
residential facilities in the six central learning centers located near
teacher training schools to accommodate teacher trainees for practice teach-
ing. In order to provide educational opportunities economically to the
dispersed rural population, teachers in about 50% of these centers, parti-
cularly those in one- and two-classroom schools, would simultaneously teach
several grades. Teachers are not now being trained for this purpose; multi-
grade teaching techniques would be introduced in both the regular teacher
training and the upgrading programs.  The government requires technical assis-
tance in this regard; hence specialist services for two man/years have been
included in the project.  As successful implementation of the rural education
program depends on properly trained and qualified teachers, assurances were
given by the government during negotiations that no later than March 1976 it
would establish upgading courses, including multigrade teaching techniques, for
existing rural primary teachers.
6.06      The director of each educational nucleus would be especially selected
and trained for his functions as school princinal, supervisor of teachers, and
coordinator of nonformal educational training programs for adults and out-of-
school vouths.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that only qualified
teachers would be appointed in the rural nuclei and that the directors of the
nuclei would be selected on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank and
would be paid a salary comparable with salaries paid to urban school directors.
6.07      The education and training programs to be implemented in the rural
community learning centers would be continuously evaluated with a view to
expansion throughout the entire rural area of the country.  The government,
during negotiations, gave assurance that it would establish a system for this
evaluation.
6.08      Lower Secondary Schools.  The project would provide equipment for
14 existing lower secondary schools (grades 7-10), enrolling about 26,000
students (15% of total secondary enrollment), to assist the government in
extending the secondary education reform (para. 4.02). These schools are
located in 12 towns, thus giving increased education opportunities mainly
to lower income groups throughout the country. Equipment would be provided
for 36 science laboratories, 22 industrial arts workshops, 22 home economics
workshops, and social science laboratories. Books and audiovisual aids would
also be provided.



- 14 -
6.09      Teacher requirements for the lower secondary schools will be met
from among trainees completing especially designed programs already under
implementation.  The training of teachers for vocational subjects is currently
carried out with the assistance of a specialist financed under the first edu-
cation project, and science teachers are being satisfactorily trained in three
universities under a UNDP/UNESCO technical assistance program (para. 3.11).
6.10      Agricultural Training Centers.  This project item consists of the
construction, furnishing and equipping of four new agricultural training
centers, to be located in areas where projects in irrigation and introduction
of new crops are being implemented (para. 4.06). Each training center would
have a capacity of 40 participants except one, which would be for 20. The
facilities of each center would include a classroom, two workshops, dormitories
and two staff houses. The centers would offer short courses, varying from one
or two days to three weeks, in new agricultural production techniques for
farmers and in health, nutrition, child care, family planning, home manage-
ment, and clothing and home industries for women. A total of about 5,000
persons would be trained annually. These centers would also function as in-
formation centers for agricultural credit, agrarian reform, farmers' associa-
tions and cooperatives, processing and marketing of agricultural products,
and community organizations for self-help activities, and as headquarters for
youth organizations and the promotion of leadership.
6.11      The Department of Research, Extension and Training of the Secretariat
of Agriculture would administer the centers. Each center would have a manager
and an assistant manager, both of whom would be agricultural graduates with
field experience. They would be responsible for coordinating all activities
in the center and organizing courses in cooperation with the various branches
of the Secretariat of Agriculture and other institutions. The participating
institutions would provide instructors for the courses; in the case of the
Secretariat of Agriculture the extension service would be the source. The
staff of each center would select the participants for courses offered by
the Secretariat of Agriculture and would assist other institutions in the
selection procedure.
6.12      The cost of permanent staff, maintenance and general services in the
centers would be borne by the Secretariat of Agriculture, while the cost of
instructors, transport and boarding for each course would be the responsibil-
ity of the participating institution.  The Secretariat of Agriculture is re-
ceiving adequate technical assistance from FAO, IDB, USAID and the Inter-
American Institute of Agricultural Sciences for implementing the proposed
agricultural training program.
6.13      Vocational Training.  This project item consists of:  (i) construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of (a) two new vocational centers, one in
Santiago (240 places) and the other in San Francisco de Macoris (75 places),
and (b) the extension of an existing vocational training center at Santo Domingo
(increase from 210 to 315 places); (ii) equipment for the existing vocational
centers in Bani, Barahona, San Pedro de Macoris and La Romana; (iii) eight



- 15 -
mobile training units; and (iv) technical assistance in the form of nine man/
years of specialist services in planning, organization and administration of
vocational training, instructor training, occupational analysis and in-plant
training and 12 man/years of fellowships for training abroad of local staff in
instructor training, occupational analysis and in-plant training and other
fields. The proposed project components would permit the establishment and
implementation of a national vocational training scherme. Facilities would be
built and equipped for training in diverse occupations in the mechanical,
electrical, construction and service sectors (a total of 28 occupations). All
centers would operate on the basis of two intakes per year for full-time
accelerated training courses; upgrading training for employed workers would
be held in the evening.  By 1980 about 2,700 adults would be trained annually
in accelerated courses and 3,300 workers upgraded (Annex 5).
6.14      Accelerated training coursea w'ould be offered for unemployed adults
and dropouts from the education system (minimum age 16) who might wish to
train for specific occupations within a narrow field of specialization. These
courses would be of about 20 weeks' duiration (800 hours).  Upgrading training
of employed workers, including supervisors and middle level management, would
be organized to improve the skill profile of the labor force, increase earning
potential and promote mobility. These courses would vary in length from 60
to 120 hours.   Upgrading would be carried out by the vocational training cen-
ters and by the urban mobile training units, which wouldl circulate to towns
too small to justify a fixed training center (para. 4.07).  Furthermore, short
suDplementary courses would be arranged for graduates of the technical streams
Of mi11t4 1        r'teral seCenTar, SChC2ls to prepare them for specific occupations.
6.15      All training would be based on occupational analysis, and flexibility
wIould be ensured through the use of short, self-contained training modules.
Standards would be established for recognized skilled occupations, trade
testing carried out and certificates awarded. During negotiations the govern-
ment gave assurances that the aforementioned techniques would be introduced.
6.16      For the rural areas, mobile units composed of instructors and equip-
ment would circulate from community to community, giving a variety of short
courses of from one to two weeks' duration in rural construction, carpentry,
artisan techniques, operation of farm machinery, and home sewing (para. 6.04).
The mobile units would be based in vocational training centers and would in-
clude in their itinerary the central schools of the educational nuclei pro-
posed under the project.
6.17      Prior to commencement of the courses in the rural areas, participants
would be classified where possible according to age, schooling and experience
to ensure a degree of homogeneity within the groups. Minimum age would be
14 years. There would be no entrance requirements and a certificate of atten-
dance would be given at the end of eacha course. The training needs of the
peasants would be determined by the social promotion agents of thc Community
DeveloDment Office in collaboration with the directors of the rural nuclei,
where these are available, and transmitted to the Office of Labor schools.
The Office of Labor Schools would be resnonsible for planning the itineraries



- 16 -
of the instructors and for supervising and evaluating the results of training.
Besides their training responsibilities the rural instructors would act as
advisors and assist the peasants in the technical aspects of starting new ac-
tivities.  The services of 25 instructors, each with a set of equipment and
materials, and five pickup trucks would be required. Between 200 and 330
courses per year would be offered to between 2,400 and 3,900 peasants in more
than 25 communities, primarily in the educational nuclei.  Some would be
follow-up courses.  An evaluation procedure would be built into the program.
The framework of this procedure would be established at the start of operations
with outside technical assistance provided under the project and an assessment
would be made annually on a permanent basis. Assurances were obtainedd from
the government that the rural training program would be closely evaluated on
a regular and continuous basis.
6.18      Tlhe training of new and the upgrading of existing instructor staff
would be undertaken at the vocational training center in Bani, which already
has adequate facilities. A total of 45 new instructors, 25 for rural training
and 20 for the training centers, would be selected and trained in instruction
techniques and the 62 instructors already in service would be upgraded.  An
expert provided under the technical assistance program (para. 6.13) would
assist in this training and upgrading scheme.
6.19      The tecnnical assistance provided under the project would aid the
government in preparing the legal framework for the establishment of the national
vocational traininR entity and in reorganizing the Office of Labor Schools.
It would hel? such office to (a) participate in manpower planning and translate
requirements into training action; (b) plan and implement vocational training
schemes of all types and at all levels; (c) give assistance and advice to
emDloyers on the organization and management of training in their establishments;
(d) establish national skill standards, promote their acceptance and organize
trade tests; (e) supervise and control all training within the scheme; (f) or-
ganize the training of foremen, supervisors and training officers required
for the implementation of inplant training; (g) publish training manuals and
other instructional materials; (h) organize a placement and follow-up service;
and (i) organize a construction trainee selection procedure. A condition of
disbursement for the construction of the new vocational training centers under
the project will be the establishment of a national vocational training entity
acceptable to the Bank.
6.20      Technical Assistance.  In addition to the technical assistance to be
provided for project implementation (paras. 6.05 and 6.13), one man/year of
specialist services would be provided to assist the statistics department of
the Secretariat of Education. This expert would be mainly concerned with
reorganizing the collection of data and improving the system of analysis and
presentation of educational statistics. All of the technical experts to be
financed by the proposed loan should be acceptable to the Bank and should be
supported by the appointment of competent counterpart staff. The phasing of
all tecinical assistance was agreed with the government during negotiations.



- 17 -
6.21      Feasibility Study and Preparation of a Possible Third Education
Project.  The project would assist the government in carrying out a feasibility
study for the development and production of textbooks and teaching aids for
primary and secondary education. In addition the government has agreed to
initiate preparatory work in connection with a possible third education project
which would help in the implementation of the new educational development plan
at present being elaborated with the assistance of a UNESCO team financed under
the first education project. The plan is expected to be completed by December
1975. An amount of US$150,000 has been included in the proposed project to
finance the abovementioned activities.
6.22      The Secretariat of Education would strengthen its Department of
Planning to enable it to carry out a permanent evaluation of the implementation
of the education reform at the primary and secondary levels. The Bank would
be periodically informed of the results of such evaluations as well as of the
government's plans and programs for the improvement of the various education
levels. The government shall at intervals of about one year review jointly
with the Bank its overall policies, plans and programs for primary education,
secondary education, vocational training and teacher training.
Cost of the Project
6.23      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$13.5 million.
The breakdown by type of expenditure, shown in Annex 6, is summarized on the next
Dage.



- 18 -
DR Pesos = US$
Total   Foreign    Total
204 Rural Community Learning Centers plus Boarding
Facilities for Teacher Training                      2.29      1.57       3.86
14  Lower Secondary Schools                              0.19      0.96       1.15
4  Agricultural Training Centers                        0.37      0.33       0.70
7 Vocational Training Centers and 8 'Mobile Units   0.78          1.95       2.73
Technical Assistance and Fellowships                 0.11      0.55       0.66
Teacher Training, Feasibility Stqdy and Prepara-
tion of Possible Third Education Project             0.13      0.13       0.26
Project Administration                               0.27      0.03       0.30
Base Cost Estimates                             4.14      5.52       9.66
Contingencies                                         1.85     2.03       3.88
Physical (10%)                                  0.47      0.53       1.00
Price    (30%)                                  1.38      1.50       2.88
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              5.99      7.55      13.54
6.24      The base cost figures are estimated as of the end of January 1975,
and are based on recent school building costs in the Dominican Republic.  For
the rural schools, simple designs have been developed, direct community
participation would be encouraged, and local labor and materials would be
used to the greatest extent possible. As a result, unit costs would be mod-
erate with an average of about US$78 per m2. A local cost adjustment of 5% to
10% has been included for schools outside the Santo Domingo area to allow for
transportation costs of materials. Site development costs have been estimated
at about 10% of the building costs; however, most site development work in
rural areas is expected to be a community contribution. Costs of site
acquisition are not included in the project. In cases where the site cannot
be donated by the community the cost will be borne by the government.
6.25      Furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on recent equip-
ment/furniture purchase contracts for the first project schools. Contingency
allowances are shown in detail in Annex 7. tThile in the past five years
costs have been fairly constant, prices of project related items went up by
about 30% in 1973-74.  For the coming years, an annual price increase of 8-14%
is forecast. The project would be implemented in about four years, requiring



- 19 -
an average allowance of 30% for price increases.  Altogether, contingencies
amount to UTS$3.9 million or 40% of the project base cost.  The foreign
exchange component would be about US$7.6 million equivalent, representing
about 56% of the total project cost. This has been calculated as follows:
(i) construction and site development, 33%; (ii) professional service, 20%;
(iii) furniture, 65%; (iv) equipment, 95%; (v) technical assistance and fellow-
ships, 84%; and (vi) preparation of a third project and project administra-
tion, 20%.
Project Recurrent Costs
6.26      By 1978, when the project institutions and programs would be opera-
tive, the additional project related costs would anount to RD$1.4 million and
would be distributed among the various Secretariats of State and agencies as
follows: Secretariat of Education, RD$-0.2 million; Secretariat of Agriculture,
RD$0.3 million; and the remaining RD$0.9 million among the agencies responsible
for the vocational training schools. These expenditures would amount to 2.4%
of public recurrent education expenditures in 1978; however, the incidence on
public spending would be much lower since the private sector would participate
in the financing of the vocational training centers. The increase in the
recurrent costs of the Secretariats of Education and Agriculture would be
marginal and well within their ability to meet them.
VII. IDLEM_IENTATION
Administration
7.01      The existing project unit, established in the Secretariat of
Education for the implementation of the first project, would be responsible
for (i) overall administration of project implementation, and (ii) liaison
with other Secretariats of State and parties involved in the project and
with the Bank. However, the project unit needs to be strengthened by the
appointment of an additional architect and an educator to supervise execu-
tion of construction work scattered throughout the country, prepare equip-
ment lists and implement the educational objectives of the project. The
Secretary of Agriculture and the Presidency would each appoint a high level
officer to be responsible for the technical aspects of implementation of
the related project component and for liaison with the project unit. During
negotiations the government gave assurances that within three months after
the signing of the Loan Agreement it would appoint the additional project
unit architect and educator and the liaison officers of the Secretariat of
Agriculture and of the OEfice of Labor Schools of the Presidency.
Professional Services
7.02      Architectural design work for project institutions would be assigned
to consultant firms acceptable to the Bank. Simple, standard designs would
be developed for rural community learning centers on the basis of sketches
reviewed during appraisal.



- 20 -
Sites
7.03      The locations of rural community learning centers have been selected
on the basis of the partially completed school nap (para. 4.04).  JNo major
problems are anticipated with regard to site selection and acquisition since
all schools will be in rural areas, where most of the land belongs to the
government.  Sites for the agricultural training centers have been selected
and are satisfactory. Satisfactory sites for the vocational training centers
are already the property of the government except Santiago, where land
should be acquired with sufficient lead tim,e to avoid delays in construction.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from the government during negotiations.
Procurement
7.04      3ecause of the small amotnts involved and dispersion of the project
schools, contracts for civil works wqould be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. Since most of the civil works are of small size,
scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors are not expected to
participate; but they would not be precluded from bidding. Prequalification
of contractors would be required in advance of bidding to ensure qualified
bidders and efficient work. During appraisal several small construction firms
were found qualified to carry out most of the project civil works. It is the
intention of the government to help these small firms and to arrange separate
bids for each educational nucleus. Similarly, the construction of the vocational
and agricultural training centers would be contracted to permit participation
of a large number of construction firms. Contracts for furniture and equipment
would be awarded under international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines.  Furniture and equipment would be grouped to form sizable
packages for bulk purchasing.  Items that could not be grouped in packages
of at least US$5,000 and would not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of
US$320,000 (corresponding to about 10% of the total cost of equipment and
furniture) would be purchased in accordance with the Borrower's regular
procurement procedures, wxThich are satisfactory to the Bank.  Local furniture
and equipment manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%
of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the currently applicable import
duty, whichever is lower.
Disbursements
7.05      In order to ensure that funds are available in a timely manner for
the implementation of priority project items such as the rural community
learning centers and for developing as soon as possible a longer term policy
for improving the quality of education, the loan would cover the local costs
of teacher training courses and the feasibility study of the local development
and production of textbooks and other teaching aids. It would also finance a
portion of project administration costs, which would include supplementary
salaries for the project unit director (US$300 monthly) and the educator
(US$200 monthly), for the project implementation period of four years, to
ensure continuity of key project unit staff, as well as the procurement of



- 21 -
office equipment and transportation for field supervision.  Thus disbursements
would finance:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on equipment;
(b)  100% of expenditures on technical assistance specialists,
training abroad, upgrading teacher training courses for
rural community centers, feasibility study of local
production of textbooks and teaching materials, preparation
of a possible third education project, a portion of project
administration costs, and architectural professional
services; and
(c) 35% of the cost of civil works and furniture.
The loan would be disbursed over a period of four years. Disbursement requests
for supplementary salaries for the project unit staff would be made by the
Secretary of Education and no transfers would be considered from the unallo-
cated category to project administration. Any surplus funds of the loan would
be used for priority items closely related to the original project, subject
to the Bankl's approval. The project implementation schedule is shown in
Annex 8 and the schedule of disbursements in Annex 9.
VIII.  AGREEMIENTS PEACHED AND RECOIC4END)ATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the government on
the following orincipal points:
(i)  establish, no later than Mlarch 1976, upgrading courses for
existing teaching staff in project rural schools (para. 6.05);
(ii)  anpoint only qualified teaclhers to the project's rural
primary schools, select the directors of the nuclei
according to criteria acceptable to the Bank, and pay
them a salary comparable with salaries paid to urban
school directors (para. 6.06);
(iii)  establish a regular and continuous evaluation system for the
programs implemented in the rural community learning centers
(paras. 7.07 and 6.17);
(iv)  base all training programs to be offered in the vocational
training centers on occupational analysis and ensure
flexibility through the arrangement of courses in short,
self-contained training modules; and establish standards
for recognized skilled occupations, organize trade testing
and award certificates (para. 6.15).



- 22 -
8.02      A condition for disbursement of funds for construction works and
equipment for the new vocational training centers would be the establishment
of a national vocational training entity (para. 6.19) acceptable to the Bank.
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$8.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Dominican Republic for
a term of 30 years, including a 10-year grace period.
April 4, 1975



TA!! -                  C-7)(OH)AHAAA                                                    L'HA(T 6-1  AG                                      A                           !    T!HAHH'-T!T
H          H                 AT~~~~~~~~~~~~S  H           HT            SA              ATI     T        :            HA             I               OH                IA!ASI                                                  I
HA  GA  GA  A!         AG            HA              HA        HA!                HH                H!            HA                                                     HHAA!H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  D IS,9
SATA                        H!             HA           A              HA             HAEH!!                        T                 HA            AL                                                     HLLL      HHHAHH
TLAH>               (H-)              (AA)            H   !        TH'            H'H)           (AA        H L-AG)           (AG-   A)         (H!H          THAAHA
HAl                  HA               H                !             A             A 1             A!           H                HA             H!            H                                                    *HHHAA!!AHHHHTSAVH
Alt                                  HA             HA              H!            HA              HAT           A!!,             9A              !A                               H               HA          H!!AHHAAA!
S                                           S                                          GE                  OCI     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HAI T  TG   HHAA
LA          A!               A!      ~     ~~~           ~~            ~                ~              ~~~ H! HIA A  A  A  'H    HA A                 HHH!                             HTT        T!AH!AAA
AT!        TA                A!     ~      ~~              ~~~           ~~~          ~~~ Az  TAO  GA  ALA  A)      H: H)             H           LA)                   THAT             9'!     ALG 6A                   A A
TAo                  TH               HG             A               AT            HA           A5 AT!          HG9 HA                        A)              Hzc TA!TAG    ALA!                                        -H!HHA-T  GA
A , HAI H                               A             A               H                             A           A                  A            A              GAHHTA                                       HG                  HHL H
SS          SI               11 A           GA         A A                GA 1         H1 H!             T,G           A!l            HA.           HA11                HAT1             H!      A1LGA                ST!
HA  A!           TA              H            HAG             TA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  HAG  A'S!      AA             A             HA                ATL              HA)        LG              HALAH.
"A)                  I                A!             TA              AG1         TA                 T            A              H              !           LA                    TA             AH          L!HHH
HA                   LA               A!              H              GA            GA              L            A'lA             HA             HH            HAATG                             HSGAG                           HH
TA!                  AZ               HACA                           H             HA            H                               T:" HA  Hz     AH            GA11 H ATT                        A    T A'!  ALA               THHH
AL            T             LA                .              G               G              A           AA               H              A              AGG                               IHA       ALA! IH6'
H                        HA!            VI              I1 AG   HAT      AG. HAL                   LAG            AL!I             HA              ATGG6!!                                       LA            AAHHH'
HA LICT HA                          HAA!            G  H            H HA               I GA       HA                ''HHHH ,                  HAG H             A                AT!!             A HAA    ATGH                  HTH   'A
HT                   HA               HA              AT             (H            AG              "I           HATI                            So            AH                A  !'!IT!                   LA ASHAA 
AGH                  IAAG                             A              TA,           TA              HA             IIA            GAI            A!            G                 HCI TIH AT                 TLA!                  A      *H
AT      T               I           AL               H            H1 HA             HA            GA1             A1            H!1              Ho HA            SHI'       AA I!HHL
IV                   Of               HH              Ac          A  H               AT             (A          H'!           H I GA            T           ALA(H                               H LA       ALA                  T!A
HA                   TA               A!             A               A)            HA9            AI            HA              TA              A!            H                 SHA                GA~    TAG!                AHOH       H
AL   TA   A!   H!      A A)            HA           H AG            GA!           A LA              AH         H H!                 H AHA           A GA!    HAG!                AAAHHGHT  'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO  D U7  -Tq
HC HT              T)     AH                   AAA'
H GA   H HA                            A LA            H HA          A AT              oH         H AHH           H AT A~~~L HI!                LC TA               A TAG 9         H9AS IS   ATA!                  IAHHT
1:  I ZI  ITI  11  11  I'll          "I              DI                                I'll             I 1     1161 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'HATHHTAAATH!   HAZHH
AG  A!  A!  HA           GA            AG              AG           GA!              A')           HA             AG                HAAG            H A'!    ALGA   AHAHAL ATAGAHAHA  'A           HHLHTLHAA LTAHLHTHAHAHAAHAHHGHTTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI "-  '  ....  .... 
I  I       9V             TL                            91z            91            9L                  GE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT  GA I   2161           HHLGA             ~      T    AHH!AHHH              AHP
A!  ATH   GA   HAG   AT   HA             AT         ATTA              H'!            GA             HA                HALT            HAAG   ATHH                    AHAHAHA          HHLTHSHAOAHAHHFAA!AHHHP!AHHTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
HIS           HA'!       IGL               HAHHH*THHHH               ,AHHL            ..HAHHHH-   H
HA  H  A!  LA          HA!              LA           HHH            HA!              HA             GA            GA                   AHA             HA  ALGA                  !HHHHHA'TLTL.HA)ALAT  LHLGLLHGHLGAAAHAHAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  S1  :
I  LI  X11  11         I11            1'1:             6"I            11            I'l                  OZE~~~~~~~~~~~~HA  HAi    ALA)T          HAAHi'A   .H...AHH ~HH    IH!  HA!-                     HAH
H  HG  ''  HA           H)             LL             LA         H H'HG             A')            G          AG AT                H AHA           A AL        ATAH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HHTG~~~H GA   A   AALHAHATAA!T!  AH H!HAAHHHH HG HAHAH1 I.,"I,...... "'l
HAL                        HA                             TA              CA            GA           HA9              S'             A             TAS                 AH               HG       ATA      -AHHH-HH,    'G               ....H..H  ..H!~ .    T   HA...   HHH  HH
A!   LA             H              AA             H!             HA           T'HH             TA             HA~~~~~1  1:   HA               HAI HA'                     ALGA       -     -TAHHH                             T        VITAAAA    AG!)!   HHAH!LT
Cz  11          I              D.                            I              Tt            Ts                  GS                                                                     T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HHAAA AH HHHH'A )~H  AHHPHAA AAH HI HA
11  SI                                                                                                                                                                          V,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATLHJHHTH  LGAHATHA 
H  A     AT             A               A!            HA           A HA           HAG              HA             H!            (H                A AHA            A HA      HTAA                HHA!HH  'HA          HHHAHHAHHHTAHHAH HHHHHAHHAHHHDE63  I ........
HA  A!  HG  HA       H             AH              AT         HAAG            ALA              H              LA                HAHA            HAG!    ALGA                     HAA!A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LAHHH  HAHH AAHA!HH  AHHAHH AHAHAAH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-M-M wwa  1
AI                                     G                                           A!              HA           HA               HA             A             A91                 HA               H'      ALG           HHATHHH           -HA L-T'AHI,VHHHAHAAA_ _
AT               A               G           A                H            AH           AH               HA!              H           AL                  HAL              HAT!1   ALA!T                 !AHA'A              qT IAAAHH
A  A!           TA              A             AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  AL  I1GA!           I HA             Az             HA                  HA!             HAT  ALA!I              VI                  (6 GIHAI H! HAA HHALGAH
AL9                          HA              A              IH            HG               IH          L'G AI            '              A            H                    H               A        LHHHAHA'!A   HHH    HATALHAHH !H
GA          H                HA             A                             A               HG           AG9'                                          GAI              H" GA!              T'H     ATAH                 THAHA  HA       !HATA!H ZHH   HATAA
A!AT                                           A              HAIAI                        H'!             ''             A             A                 AGHZ             HSH       AA                  AA!H'! ,,!AHATAHT!HHAAAH)
I  11    S,            SC              11           1:61             E:,            91             I                  "I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGA  HH'  ALGA"   HHHH!HHA 'H                           iGAHHA..oAHHI
A!IT                       A!              A            HI               GA           HAL          HIA              HAT            TA IH SGT                                           HA'!    AAGH STHHATHTH,,AA9IIHHAH
A       ''               AG             H               A             GA~          ~~~~           ~~~     ~ ~~~~           ~ HAGC  HA  HAL  A   TA                A!H              HAT       ALA!                 HHHA'AH              HHLA iHHHIH TGHJA!H
H  H!  HA  HA           H              AT           AHT            '''            GA!              A             '''               HAT!             HAGH    HTHA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHHAHH-H)        A.!.HAHHAHHAAHLAHLHAHHLHLHAALIG'1G,  _,  .    : :
HAI                            HA              A              HA             A              HAx9         HA!           HA                A             HAI               HAL!             HAL    ALA!T                 HHHH'THAHHA  HAA'HH
AG  '          AG             A               AG            GA              AH           LA!             H'!            A!            HA                   HAG             GA      ALGA              HHHHTAHH  '))              HATHTGH AHHH PHAGAHAG HTSHHH
AT  HA  LG  A  HA  ALA       HAT             LA             A             AH                HAHA            A A'A    AAHH              H!HHLHHTLA  'AT                GA'A"AH   SHAHA HHHLALAA,  (H~~111pai T
HA,             TA1             SI              A             "H             HAf                                                                          I"IHA AHGG         A'!     TALG                  AA!-ATH                  !HTA.HHHHA
HA                  HA                  A              H            HH              A              H               '!             A!             H69AA                                             A         L!HHA''!                          THHHATAAHHAA'AHH
IA                  GA                 AG              T              A1             LA             (H          AI!              LA           HA                T                     AG            H       GAG)                        "IHH'  ~A    AHHTHHA         AHE        ....A.HA
H                    G               LA              I              HH             AL             AL           A:TH             A'A          A'T             LAAA!                                A'!!   TLH                    LH   A)             'AA   AAHHL.AAAATH
HA  HA  AG            GA           AHA             HG!             A')            AG    ~    ~~~~~~~~~                            ~~~~~~~~~                  ~~~~~ AHAf  SGHA  HA!  ALA!  HATHAH-  Az  THHHAAH?HHA   G  LAT
S          El               C,~~~~H        A               HT            AL             HA         HAHA            AAA             AT              L                 HOLT             HA:~L    ALGA1,                 AHAA                                            AA
AT  HA  HA  HA          HAL            H'!!           AHA              A             ''                  GH!           HAG        ALGA                'HT  'A                 -GHGAA!AHHHA'HAAAAHHAAG
CT                   A                 !              G                            HA              A              '!             A                             'AA                                A'        LAAAAHA'                                AAAG!A!SAAA    !H   A
A!      H                HA             HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  (A      HA             HA         AAA              A'             LAG           A6 HAT                               A            66A ALGAG              ,HGA'              AAAHHHHHIAV          HHHHH,L
D S  "I          I             S             I                 V,       S                            -I-P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'A   G   TAlAGH
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHH HHHAAHAAHAAH
AG          A               A              AT              A               A             H          A'!                A!             A           HI                  HAG'             HAAG    AZLA)                  AA!A-                  :A -AHpAH ,A-THAHAAH-
I ...  ~   ~ ~       HHA)!               -A!H   HAHAHAA!   A   A
TA   '            A AT                             GA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  H 1 GA A         HA!             H              V!AL        IGA                   HAAG             HA!   HLAT'AH                                       HHA! VHHH.A,H!A
H HA!  A!  HA  H H    HA            HA              AG           AL!              HA            AG             HA               H AHAG           A HAL    ALA!            HHAAHHH AHAHA            TAHA! HA! !A!P HA!!  'H!AA!AHH.T.H~~~~~~9:   GIST  P
11                                                                                  II.S,                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'AH    H   AAAHHAH
GA!        H!               H)              AG             HA             A)             HA!          H'AA            GA~. SIAAEL                   GA A1                               SH'OHG    LA)                    TA-HAHHA'AAA   AAAA" -                            HA
H HA          AG              A!~~~~~~~~~~~~1  LA          AAL              A              HGS  I       GA!             LA              A             AG                A A...'SDA AG1             HL,T                   LAHAH             .H..H..A .  ....AHAI        A  HG
AG                   H                A              AG              HA            LA              A         AI .GA!            HA1            ALA            HA                  HAL'A           A'      ATHA              AAAAAAAA!AAHHHHA    'A                                  HH
A AG!  TA   GA   AT   AL    A!              AG           HA!              LA             A)!           AG               A AHA'!          A ('HA    ALA!               !AH!AH!AA!!          HAHHHHHAG HA! TSAHAHA! HAHAHHTAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  .1  (q
AA                    A!               G              A               H            A               A             TA               G               T            H                 HGHG'            ALA!   AL)                          HAALqLHA
IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI HAHAH! A
GA!  A!  GA  HA  AH  GA             AA            AHA             AT             AHA           HA                H AAGG           A AGA    ALA)         'HHH'HHA'LA!AAHT ~~~~~~H~~!AHHHAHA  HHA HOAHA AHAGHTAHAI
ALA        A                HA              '''            HA            A!~~~~~~I       HATA'AA                       A'!IAG                       HA                H HTT'          A AGSA6:   ALA!                ....AA H.A  A HAA.H.HH   HGA
A)  A!  A)       A)              AG            HA              AG           H 'A             GA            AT!            AG               A HAT'!          H AT       (HAG                  AAHAAHA                    ASH!! A!!!! AHHHAHHAAH H!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LCL66  _2 -    I
IIT  ...  11  I11  11                       I.: 11                         16                S               SS"N'  111G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HTHHAA                    AHAHAHHSHA   AAAH!-AAA
TAT!        GAL            LAHA             HAG)~~~~~~~~S   TA)           (H              (TA          HA I             A               (G           (A-L)(A-'A TAHHLTALH  HSH !-
91  1                                                                                                                   OD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA                           'ATHAH 'HAHHHT!AA
HAHSGHA           HHHHAAAA!AH                         HHTAHAHGiHHAH                                                               LT VTHA !AAAaH!AHHHAAHATH  GA   HAAT   LA                                                                             H   AAAAAT   AHA!H
GHT'AA  T!      AATAAHL        A!HHAHAT        HHAHAHH           HL         AH  AHHA   A AAHHH    SHTHAAHA                  GHAHHA       THHHAA             LALAHHAH                                                               A!!!HIT!A!   HAHA!AA';HA
HHHAHHHHTHHA                     IAHTH                    HA         AAAAHHHAHTHAHA66A!HAA                                     -HHAAHA          6ALHH              HAT                                                                                     HH!!AHA.!HAIHHAHSHI'll
HHHH!A HAAG  HAHH!!AAHHHZ          AHS          IHAATHHATHHAAA                                LHAT        -30A''            HTTIATAH!LA                     AA                              AA)AA                                                       L   HAHHHAAA~
HAHAHA AHAHAG       HHAHHA.AHHAAA IHIS                                              L LH!!HA!A!!AH    GA                               6H6HAATH  HAHHATH..A...AI                                                                                      .H.  AAHHATHAAAHT             -P!
A                       HHTHHA"IA HA(                                                                                               ASA
IGI  11       11             11             11             11              11         0~~~~~~~~~~~HAATAHA  IA,AAAHTAAOAT:ACHTLAHL6






ANNEX 2
DCMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOD EDUGATION PROJECT
Estimate of Annual Requirement of New Workers
(in thousands)
Required                Annual     Total
Labor    Labor                 Replace-    Annual
Force    Force      Annual       ment      Require-
1970     1980     Increase                  ment
Alternative 1_i
Agriculture                 594.9    659.1        6.42       11.88      18.30
Mining                        0.9       3.5       0.26        0.02       0.28
Manufacturing                81.6    133.9        5.23        1.63       6.86
Electricityj Gas, Water       2.4      5.7        0.33       0.05        0.38
Construction                 30.1    104.2        7.41        0.60       8.01
Transport, Storage, Com-
munications                42.6      89.0       4.64        0.85       5.49
Commerce                     74.8    127.2        5.24        1.50       6.74
Services                    245.1    361.6       11.65        4.90      16.55
Total                      1072.4   1484.2                              62.61
Total, excluding Commerce,
Services, and Agriculture                                             21.02
Alternative 2 g
Agriculture                 594.9    663.7        6.88       11.88      18.76
Mining                        0.9       2.6       0.17        0.02       0.19
Manufacturing                81.6    163.5        8.19        1.63       9.82
Electricity, Gas,Water        2.4      3.0        0.06        0.05       0.11
Construction                 30.1    153.8       12.37        0.60      12.97
Transport,Storage,Com-
munications                 42.6     83.0        4.04        0.85       4.89
Commerce                     74.8    145.8        7.10        1.50       8.60
Services                      5      398.6       15.35       4.90       20.25
Total                      1072.4   1614.0
Total, excluding Commerce,
Services, and Agriculture
a/ Main assumptions:  Sectoral annual growth rates for 1970-1980 correspond to
sectoral growth rates of 1960-1968; constant 1970 productivity.
j Main assumptions:  Sectoral annual growth rates for 1970-1980 correspond to
average sectoral growth rates of 1968-1972 (except mining, growth rate of
1966-1971); increases in productivity according to estimated ILO figures for
1968-1971 (except mining 1967-1971, agriculture 1966-1971).



ANNEX 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Annua. aequirement of New Workers by Skill Level
(in thousands)
Alternative l 
Skilled
Profes-       Office               and           Un-
sionals,       and                semi-skilled  skilled
managers,     sales               workers        workers
technicians   workers   Farmers                            TOTAL
Agriculture                     0.11         0.05      17.93       0.11       0.09      18.29
Mining                          0.01         0.02       0.01       0.11       0.13       C.28
Manufacturing                   0.34         0.55       0.24       2.74       2.98       6.85
Electricity, Gas, Water         0.04         0.14        -         0.17       0.03       0.38
Construction                    0.54         0.02        -         3.60       3.84       8.oo
Transport, Storage,
Communications                 0.93        1.65         -        1.10        1.81       5.49
Commerce                        1.15         2.02        -        1.35        2.22       6.74
Services                        2.81 34.97               -         3.31       5.46      16.55
Total                5.93        9.42       18.18     12.49       16.56     62.58
Total of
skilled and semi-skilled
workers excluding commerce
services, agriculture                                              7.72
Alternative 2/
Agriculture                     0.11         o.06      18.38       0.11       0.09       18.75
Mining                          0.01         0.01       0.01       0.08       0.09        0.20
Manufacturing                   0.49         0.79       0.34       3.93       4.27        9.82
Electricity, Gas, Water         0.01         0.04        -         0.05       0.01        0.11
Construction                    0.88         0.03        -         5.84       6.23       12.98
Transport, Storage,
Communications                  0.83        1.47         -         o.98       1061        44.89
Commerce                        1.46         2.58        -        1.72        2.84        8.60
Services                        3.44         6.08        -         4.05       6.68       20.25
Total               7.23        I1.06      18.73      16.76       21.82      75.60
Total
of skilled and semi-skilled
workers excluding commerce,
services, agriculture                                            10.88
i/ Skill level requirements taken from country with comparable economic structure
(Ecuador)
i See Annex 2, footnote a
c/ See Annex 2, footnote b



ANNEX 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Education Expenditures 1969-1978
in Dominican Pesos and US$
(000's)
Average                     Average annual
annual                      increase in
increase                    real terms
1969       %        1972        l     1969-1972     1978E/   g   1972-1978
Primary                            17,330     46.2    20,310       43.8      5.4       30,900    46.5      7.2
Secondary                           9,250     24.6    11,810       25.4      8.5       17,300    26.1      6.6
General                      (6,780)   (18.0)    (8,580)    (18.5)    8.2    (13,000)  (19.6)        7.2
Teacher Training               (410)   (1.1)       (430)      (0.9)    1.6       (1,200)   (1.8)    18.7
Vocational                   (2,060)    (5.5)    (2,800)      (6.0)    10.8      (3,100)   (4.7)    1.7
Post-Secondary                       7,400     19.7      9,660      20.8      9.3       10,500    15.8      1.4
Other Programs                       2,050      5.5      2,610       5.6      8.4        4,800     7.2    10.7
General Administration               1,500      4.0      2,020       4.4    10.4         2,900     4.4      6.2
Total                3                        1100.0    41         100.0       7.3      66.400   100.0      6.2
Current                             32,370     56,3    41,24O       88.9      8.4       60,500    91.1      6.6
Capital                              5,160     13.7      5,170      11.1      0.1        5,900     8.9      2.2
Ministry of Education               30,870     82.3    40,480       87.2       9.5      60,400    91.0      6.9
Other Ministries                     6,660     17.7      5,930      12.8      3.9        6,000     9.0      0.2
For Public Schools                  33,400     89.0    41,230       88.8      7.3       60,000    90.4      6.5
For Private Schools                  4,130     11.0      5,180      11.2       7e8       6,400     9.6      3.6
Share of Eduzation in                 15.9                13,9                            13.1
Government's Budget
Share of the Government's             17.9                17.7                            18.8
Budget in GDP
Public Education Expenditures as        2.9                 2.5                             2.5
Proportion of GDP
Private Sources of Financing§/                            9,700
Total Education Expenditures                             56.100
Total Education Expenditures
as Proportion of GDP                                   3.0
a_/ 1969 and 1972 in current prices; 1978 in prices of 1972
/  Including part of financing of the Public University (UASD) not covered by the Government's budget.
v Project related recurrent expenditures are not included.
Source: National Budget Office, Ministry of Education, and Mission Estimates



SECOND EDUCT11UN PtHnLCT'_
Present and Projected Output from Technical Education and Training SyateO- 197349800
Pro ', e 4
Institut.ions   Accelerated Trainin    dpT                      Technicians < Supervisors
Techrnical Education                                 1973        1960         1973        198.j        1973        190v
Public Technical Schools                                  -                  -                                    5
Private Technical Schools                    l-                                                       90         2J9
Diversified Secondary Schools   1st Proj.                       -            -           -            -          36B3
Universidad Catolica Santiago                       -           -            -           -            15          5J
National Vocational TraininL Scheme
1. San Pedro de Macoris  V.T.C2*   2nd Proj.          253         330           -          450J
2. La Romana  V.T.C.                                   6,          60           -           6i           -
3. Barahona  V.T.C.                                    83         210                      210 -                      -
4. fjan{                                              227         5440          -             L0          -
5. Santo Domingo - Genafetovo V.T.C.  "               218         633           -           495           -      45
6. Santo Domingo - ID.S.S.  V.T.C.  -                 190         l9u           -           60            -           _
7. Santiago V.T.C.                       ?             -          420           -          405            -           90
6. San Francisco de IMacoris V.T.C.                    -          150           -          150            -
Tourist
Puerto Plata Hotel School          Project          -          250           _           _            _
In-Plant Training                  2nd Proj.        _           -                       4DO           _          l02
UrhJRn Se.ctor  o(bile Training,                    -            _           _          288            _
2       "           ', 7O _             2      S       r
Rural Sector Mobile Training                        Estimated Number Persons to be Trained Annually = 2,40.) /3900
- Excluding Commercial, Home Economies and Agricultural Training                    2 Upgrading
* V.T.C.  -  Vocational Training Center



SECCN  ED_UCATON PROJECT
33IooOS   f  - oalteo3 CosC /
(in Domii-ca, Ieooc 2000's)   051 = USSl)
Additional  Site                 Acad.                                                       In Service   Tech.Assist=ncc                                Total
Code           Project Item              .           (40)    o Wo-rkhopt   S-- sSet Ioses    Sta Ct Arose          D-voiop-   Pcof.    ad         Board-   Stff                  Furn-i-   Eqoip-  Teacher       Speti.l- Felioc-    Spe-ici    Project         Cost
(4)    (20)    Nec         Total   I00000   Sq. -t.    -ccc         S-m.   Core         ing      H-ooiog   To.al    tore        menc   Traioi.g       i-ta      ships      Progrtmc   Ad..           (US$O00)
N.       SECRETARY OF ODUCOTIONI
1.1      Rual- Comeunity Letrning
204 sehools gro-ped ia
15 n-.ei pla bhoarding
faeilicies foe tacher
tr-inin8                      325        150     15       73    i,400  15,200        15     32,411      280.0      162.6   2,593.9    58.1       148.0    3, 242.4   247.4   367.5                                                                  3,857.3    A
1.2      Lower Oeaeedery Educaton
Existincg teho-te (14)                                                                                                8.8      147.6                           156.4   116.6   880.0                                                                 1,153.0    =
1.3      Teacher traini                                                                                                                                                                                    5.                                                      105.0    C
1.4      T-ohei-ro  oceiscatce                                                                                                                                                                6.9                  135.0      35.0                                 176.9    D
2.0      SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE
Agricaltaral traainin
scorers in:
2.1      8arah.ons                          1                          2         40       4e       2      1,29        14.1 Z. 7             03.3    24.        09. 3       140.3      9.S    36.3                                                                   196.l
2.2      Ma                                 1                          2         40       4,0      2      1,292       11.9        5.5       54.5    20.3       24.2       116.1,     9.5    36.3                                                                    162.2
2.3      higaey                             1/2                        2         40       40       2      1,292       14.8        6.9       67.2    25 4       30.2        145 0     9.6    56.3                                                                    190.9
1.4      Je                                 I_                         2          40      40       2       1,038      11.9        5.5       56.5    12.3       29.3        115.4     6.6    36 3                                                                   158.3
TotAl            -                          -           -       -       -         -        52.8       24.6      244.0    82.7       113.0       517.1    35.2   145.2                                                                    697.5    E
3.       PRZSIDENCY
Vocgeioeel training
3.1      lani                                                                                                                               46.4                            46.4      5.7    96.8                                                                   148.9
3.2       araL.ona                                                                                                                          17.4                            17.4      5.7    47.2                                                                    70.3
3.3      La R00an0                                                                                                                           5.8                             5.8      5.7     7.7                                                                    09.2
3.4      lao Pedro do Of..arie                                          /3                                                                  23.2                            23.2      5.     66.5                                                                    92.6
3.5      Sante Dom0ig0                      5                         22.7       315     315       -       3,918       33.2       2U.5     332 2                           385 9    33.0   629.0                                                                  1,047.9
3.6      Sao Franeisco do Matoris           1                          5/3        75      75       -       1,380       11.6        7.1     116.1                           134.8    11.4    08.3                                                                    234.5
3.7      S-otia.g                           4                         17         240     240       -       3,714       30.8       18.0     307.9                           357.7    30.8   477.8                                                                    866.3
3.8      Kabile U0i00 (8)                                                                                                                                                                   243.1                                                                   243.1
Total           -                          -           -        -                -         75.6      46.6      849.0                           971.2    98.0  1656.4                                                                  2,725.6     F
3.9      TECHNICAL A8SISTANCE                                                                                                                                                                                      405.0      84.0                                  489.0    0
4.       Fea-ibility stody tnd
Preparation of a possible
third Proje-t                                                                                                                                                                                                                 157.5                     157. 5    0
5.       Project Adoioisrre-i-o                                                                                                                                                                                                                          300.0      300.0     I
TOTAL COST EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                          408.4      242.4   3,834.5   140.8       261.0    4,887.1   497.2  3056.0           105.0    540.0    119.0         157.5           300.0   9,661.8
Phyoi-al  Co-tingencit5                                                                                    49.0       79.1     460.2    16.9        31.3       586.5    49.7   305.6           10.5                            15.7            30.0     998.0
Peice  Co-tioaeoocsa                                                                                      140.3       67.4   1,315.2    48.3        01.6    1,662.8   129.4   783.2            30.0    123.2       27.3        39.6           87.5   2,8983.0
Netal Contingencies                                                                                       089.3       96.5   1,375.4    05.2         122.9   27,249.3   179.1  1088.0          40.5    123.2       27.3        55.3           117.5   3,881.0
TOTAL COST INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                                          597.7      338.9   5,609.9   206.0       383.9     7 ,1364   676.3 4 144.8          145.5    663.2    146.3         212.8           417.5  13, 542.8
FDEIGN EXChA8NCE                                                                                            196.3       62.9   1,039.8    67.6        128.1    2,294.7   433.7  3.928.0            -      531.4    146.3        174.5   .        40.3   7,548.9
PERCENTAGE OF F.E. ABOVE TOTAL COST                                                                          33X        187.       337     33!.        337.        32/,    64%    957              0       800      100/,        82/.             9.67,    56%
1-   00 of .lanuar  137'
/2   Capoiny: 20 plo
T-    Capacity: 15 placeI
Ja-a-ry 1975



ANNEX 7
C  ,         _ U           _                         4D 4
H X                               C                       -:  - ^
Hi  o&                         2                       4
,                  '-,l 4°      4                 '-   4 _    
o                                                      -"
g1 
Cii                       0                                
I                                                    H    4
'-ii                                                  4 O 
33~~~~                                               ~~~          ~ ( 1  4   H
C.,~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~                               S 0o
9  N                             N                        
fL                                                             4
4<                                                   H _|4  
Ii                                                 4 4- < 
<~~ ~ 0|                                       444
- ?N
O                                    "1 010< 
D   ool, g                                 0j 
41                 '0 *_             4 
°~ C    N        0 
gI~~~~~~. N                               0 0 
ig 4 N o ~ S4 0 c
~~~ C



AANhE 8
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SE.COND EDUCATION PROJECT
Proj ect Implementation Schedule
Calendar Years      9       1976   |17               1        1979_
Implementation Schedule             Semesters           1      2                 5      6     7      a
- __ _ _ _ _ __ ___ _ _ ~~~Quarters                       .     _1  2 -3 l41 5  61 7 08  9 1.0 11 1211311~ i5 16
1  Educational nuclei                                                                      . 2
a.  site selection and archited's brief
design                                                                          xxxxxX
bids for construction
construction
b.  furniture and equipment
lists and specifications                                                    XXYx
bids                                                                             200xx 
manufacturing and delivery
2.  Lower secondary schools
a. equipment
lists and specifications
bids
manufacturing and deliveryr                                                  .           4xDOmcC
3.  Agricultural training centers
a.  site selection and architect's brief                                 XxxiiDpDn
design                                                                    XXKPoo xxx
bids for construction                                                             xxxx
construction
o.  furniture I equipment
lists and specifications
oids                                                               I  r     ,    xxx
manufacturing and delivery                                                   I
4. Vocational training certers
a.  Site selection and architect's brief                                                .
design                                                                           xx.xx xx ;
bids for construction                                               |  ixxx
construction                                                                                 ' i  !   .  ¢  :
b.  furniture E equipment (mobile units)
lists and specifications
bids
manufacturing and delivery
5. Technical assistance                                                       4xxxxxxxxxx
6. Feasibility study on textbooks and teaching                                    i
aids and preparation of a
possible third education project.



ANNEX 9
DOMINIUAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
EstLmated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ 000' s
Calendar
Year       Semester       Total          Banic       Government
1975          2              42            20              22
1976          1             500           200             300
2           l,j 0           500            800
1977          1           2,300         1,500             8oo
2           3,700         2,100          1,600
1978          1           3,100         2,000          1,100
2           2,300         1,500            8oo
1979          1             300           180             120
TOTAL         8          13 ,542        8,000          5,542



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL AND NONFORMAL SYSTEM OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1974
DROPOUT ROUTE                                                     TRADITIONAL SYSl'EM                              UNIVERSITY
NONFORMAL                                                                 _A
EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                      ACADENAIC                                            0
| INSTITUTIONS INCLUDED                                                        AGRICUITRAL                            SHORTCOUOFESSIONALS
IN PROPOSED PROJECT                                                         HOME ECONOMICS
TEACHER TRG.                                     
JOURNALISM_                            _       __ _
COMMERCIAL
PHYSICAL ED.
PRIMARY                                        INDUSTRIA
_                 AGRICULTURAL                                                      T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECHN,CIANS
ILLITERATESENN
PRIMARY EDUCATION  SECONDARY EDUCATION                                 HIGHER EDUCATI ON           f  ~~~~~~~                        LABORCAFORCE
REFORMED) SYSTEM                                                                                                           S*,E- 1S6(R)
{  A                                                                     w-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAINING '
CYCLE                                                        -VOCATIONAL                   SEMI-SKILLED
8ASIC CYCLE                                                        SSC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41~RINING      WORKERS
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~A LLITRATE
PRMR             PRMR   OCTO                                        EODR   DCTO                                            IHREUAIN{lNNOML|                                    |          AO   OC 
NSKIlEd ak-16R
-    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  ORKERS~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~;
ILLITERATES                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
STRUCTURE OF THE SECRETARIAT EDUCATION, FINE ARTS AND RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS
|RESEARCUS 
| JUDICIAL SERVICES    LANNING                                                                                                                                P  C RE nYlONS             SPORTS              TrFE ARTS
AL~EV:ES AND BUDGETING                                                                                                                            BI  EIII
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   I
STATISTICS  CURRICULUM                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CULTURAL EXTEN.     PR STING ANDI
STATISTICS               CURRICULUM                                                                                                     SION SERVICES          PUBLICATIONS
| U-ERETARIAT |                                                                                                                               SUS SECRETAR(AT|
PE AOGIC     PHYSICAL                  TRACRII
INSACITUTE            EDUYSCAT.IO               TRAINING                                                                                                            SCHOOL RUILOINGS          SCHOOL NUTRITION
INS71TUTE    I        EDUCATION   ITANN
PRIMANY        S~ECONDARY             TECHNICALAND
3 A~~~~DUCATION                                 T ACOUNAIN    ANDU|IENRLT -EVCE SI
IEDUCATION                                    EDUITION                                                                              REGISTRATION
DEPARTMENTAL                                              P-                                                 N A
DIR ECTOR ATES
| PRIMARY SCHOOL |
SORCEe DRE'EMRraI EdUARESR,I SUPERVISION                                                                            I
WAUUd DaRk-91BARIR






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENTS IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS
1972 AND 1982
(IN THOUSANDS)
Grades                      Total .                                                                                                                                                              Level              Total
1972/73           1982/83                                                                                                                                                              1972/73          198283
6                  1 7                 4.0
5                  2.6                 6.6
4                  4.1                113i                                                                                                                                                   Higher       33.8             66.5
3                  5.4                11.9
2                   7.8               13.3
1                 12.2                19.3
12                 13.1               37.2
11                 17.5               39.8
10                 22.1               42.5                      URBAN                                                                            RURAL
9                 24.8                45.1                                                                                                                                                    Secondary  143.2            266.5
8                 28.2                47.8
7                 37.5                53.1                                                                                                                                                  L
6                 60.3               163.2
5                 76.0               147.0
4                 96.4               172.1
Primary    833.3           7,0500
3                130.4               178.2
2                160.5               i 92.9
1                309.7               211.6-
p                 12.0                15.2                                                                  (3  Pre-Primary 12.o                                                                                            15.2
120   100    80    60    40        20      0     20    40    60    80   100   120   140    160   180   200   220
(IN  THOUSANDS)
1 t Enrorllrets include overage emsn,ated for 1972/73 at 230A and for 1982/83 at 7%.
1972                                                                                                                                                                                World Bank-9165
1982
.;0






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
ENROLLMENTS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION                                                         CHART JJ
TRENDS IN RURAL, URBAN, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS (1963/64 - 1972/73)
900                                                           I           I           1
850.0
*                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~833.4 _
820 _
800 _ _
764A             PUBLIC
700 -                                   TOTAL               685                          /      7203        72        _
ll,   <    ,        ~~~~~~659.1 _ 
800~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0jp
600          4                      5848                                                            7
557.2
RURAL
:500 t//z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4~~~~705l......... 4.0. ... . ,"*,...... 14r
r 400 372~~~~~~~~~~~~1 379.2..  -- URA
300   344 5    *----*----------*- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 447.
27746
238.9  _
206.9_ *   '
PRIVATE
100   34  9  3E 1 41~~~~~~~41    2          4  3   ..73...64.98.04110 
I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9. _I__I__I__'
U ~ ~~RA
63,'64     64/65       65/86       88/67       6i/68       68/69       69/70       70/71       71/72       7V/73       73/74
FIGURES FOR 1973/74 ESTIMATED
SOU RCES: UNESCO P IM R EPORT
SECRETARIAT OF EDUCATION
August 1974                                                                                                     World Bank-9157






| 7i2                                        74                                   '                          09                                              -                Jt~~*  7I
-20                                                                                                                                                                                           DOMINICAN  REPUBkICx                               20°-
PeTternoiniobounderies               SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Monte Cristi                                                                                                                 ® J  -  National oopital
W\El Ahogodo                                                                                                0  ~ ->9 ) t O Provincial copitals
>  / >         X                               jPuerto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plaot                          0   Towns
m1         l           u                    7_PET                      X          A                                      - Mainrwtds
Rivsrs                                 tD~~~~~~~~ EUCATIONAL NUCLEIIRIIRAL COMMLINI TYLEARNING CENTEn)
_ LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS
E   p                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTERS
aojobon                                  eri<,  --                                                                                                  1                   :   S ut f  fe  zx «sR/A /V I-  o  VOCATIONAL TRAININCiG CENTERS
Us r.s f~~~~~~~~~~~~osC
.)ax  J   T/N/DEPENDN TIA  0                              S-  I
RODRIGUEZa 
San Fram~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SoaE
~ Restaur;ccion  rEr   >>              j         S A N T/IA G O         2 fr   \       (f-  a  b      an         Sea                                                                       G/ of        i    -
| r ) f hl e ' 0                          - ?
PERNALS K                                       Los                                                                                                                                                       s PGct  '  _
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MXC  01 BARA//ON                                                                                                     GATIE7O
-18 ~ ~~~~~~                                                                   ~~~~ 9, P0d3rn4le50                                   AS                              18 NIr         STATES ,.    C;          Ai/ooo Sc   CO
ZA                                                                                               aboo dew War~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aA0G
BEDERNA Z ES 1o   /                                                                                                                         h                                               lsirndsZ 
)1,/ p                                                                                                                                                                                           CUEA A N        pMN nstanz
Ovied LlanoO de+^ELZ PadreHh TI                                                                                                                                                                                ij
Beala                                                                                               KILOMETERS                              m Gheoauas,i rown a m5 hisap dollo      COSTA RICA. 4 i .        .0M
7,2   Is  .           71-                                                             70                                   ityly emM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h550oAameodi5for ceomrYb   Pocific Ocean  PANAMAf CoLOM-BIA'---3UEL  1;. O
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e     



