Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
4              -~~ / t  if -6    
Report No. P-5140-GUA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDP. 59.8 MILLION
TO
THE COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
JUNE 7, 1990
This docment has a restricted distribudon an may be wed by redpieVts only In the performance of
tbeir ofncia duties. Its contents may not otherise be discosed without Worl Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Guyana Dollar (G$)
The Guyana dollar floated with the pound sterling from July 1972
to October 1975, when the Government announced its linkage to the US dollar
at G$2.55 = US$1.00. A new rate of G$3.00 = US$1.00 was established on
June 1, 1981. On January 11, 1984, it was adjusted to G$3.75 = US$1.00.
The average exchange rates for the period 1984-89 are set out below.
Annual Average
1984               US$1.00 - G$3.832               G$1.00 = US$0.261
1985               US$1.00 = G$4.252               G$1.00 - US$0.235
1986               US$1.00 = G$4.272               G$1.00 = US$0.235
1987               US$1.00 - G$9.756               G$1.00 = US$0.103
1988               US$1.00 = G$10.000              G$1.00 = US$0.100
1989
January-March      US$1.00 = G$10.00               G$1.00 - US$0.100
April-December     US$1.00   G$33.00               G$1.00   US$0.030
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM                  Caribbean Community
CDB                      Caribbean Development Bank
CET                      Common External Tariff
CFF                      Compensatory Financing Facility
CGCED                    Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
CIF                      Cost, Insurance and Freight
EDC                      Export Development Corporation
EC                       European Community
EIB                      European Investment Bank
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GNP                      Gross National Product
GEC                      Guyana Electricity Corporation
GNEA                     Guyana National Energy Authority
GNEC                     Guyana National Engineering Corporation
GNTC                     Guyana National Trading Corporation
GPC                      Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation
GRG                      Guyana Rice Group
GRMMA                    Guyana Rice Milling and Marketing Authority
GTC                      Guyana Telecommunications Corporation
GUYMINE                  Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd.
GUYSUCO                  Guyana Sugar Corporation
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                      International Developmonc Association
IDB                      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
MIGA                     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
PCS                      Public Corporations Secretariat
PSIP                     Public Sector Investment Program
QRs                      Quantitative Restrictions
SAC                      Structural Adjustment Credit
TAC                      Technical Assistance Credit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the -.1brmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World basuk authorization.



GUYANA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...     .     .........      .    .... .    i-iii
PART I   THE ECONOMY ......................................                 1
Bac-kground ..... ... ..... *..........................................  1
Economic Performance .. .. ... .... ........... . . .          2
Government Response to the Crisis***..................         4
Key Adjustment Issues....   ......                 .......     5
PART I1  COUNTRY STRATEGIES AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .............         7
A. The Government's Medium-term Adjustment Program .......        7
B. Bank Group Assistance Strategy and Operations  .....           9
Past Assistance ..... . .. ........*. .......... * .....  9
Proposed Bank Group Assistance Strategy ......... ..    10
Resumption of Previously Approved Projectsct.s.    11
The Propose-. Technical Assistance Credit..........    11
C. External Financing and Burden Sharinga....                    12
PART III THE FUND PROGRAMS FOR 1989 AND 1990..............                 14
Economic Performance and Financial Targets - 1989........    15
The Fund Program - 1990  .................16
PART IV  THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM...............    18
A. Incentive Framework..........................                 18
Domestic Pricngi                           ng.           18
Trade Polc o... l....c y....                             20
Other Incentives       ..........                        21
Private Sector Investment Procedures....                 22
B. Public Sector Finances... ..c..                      ...      22
Central Government. ..... .......                        22
Public Enterprises..       ............. ........        23
C. Public Sector Investment Program ..................5
D. Social Sector Programs     .. ....... .         .. .. ..      26
PART V   MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS, CREDITWORTHINESS AND
EXTERNAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS ......................    27



TABL3 OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
PART VI CREDIT FEATURES               ........... .   29
Credit Amount and Cofinancing ................   29
Procurement and Disbursement .............................   30
Benefits and Risks   .    ..... ...... .................... .  32
PART VII RECOMMENDATION .....            .. ....   .......... .     34
ANNEXES
I.  Economic Indicators, Balance of Payments, External Debt, Financing
of Program and Social Indicators
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations
III.   Supplementary Loan Data
IV.  Coverage of IMF and Bank Programs
V.  Letter of Development Policy
VI.  Social Impact Amelioration Projects
VII.   Summary of Technical Assistance for Program Implementation
VIII.  Policy Matrix
MAP     IBRD 11683RI



COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Cooperative Republic of Guyana.
Beneficiary:                Cooperative Republic of Guyana.
Amount:                     SDR 59.8 million (US$78.0 million
equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with a maturity of
40 years, including a grace period of
10 years.
Cofinancing:                The proposed Credit would be cofinanced by
the Caribbean Development Bank (US$42
million), and the Federal Republic of
Germany (US$6 million).
Program Description:        The proposed Second Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC) would support the Government's
economic recovery program. The aim of the
program is to create viable and stable
economic conditions conducive to restoring
a higher and sustained rate of economic
growth. Specifically, the proposed credit
will support a reform program encompassing:
(i) the improvement of the incentive
framework through reforms in domestic
pricing, trade policies, and private sector
investment procedures; (ii) improvement of
public sector finances through the
elimination of central government transfers
to public enterprises, streamlining the
civil service, increasing revenue
transferred by public enterprises to the
Central Government and divestment programs
for selected public enterprises; and
(iii) the formulation of a realistic public
sector investment program consistent with
the macroeconomic framework in terms of
size, composition and financing and with
the country's implementation capacity.
Estimated Disbursements:   The proceeds of the proposed credit would
be disbursed in three tranches: the first
of US$50.0 million equivalent upon credit
effectiveness, the second of US$15 million
equivalent and third of US$13 million
equivalent each following satisfactory
reviews of program compliance. The reviews
are expected to take place within six and
fifteen months after effectiveness.



- li -
Benefits                    The main benefits will bet  (i) financing
of critical imports needed to help restore
economic growth; (ii) the gradual
improvement in the standard of living of
the population through sustained economic
growth; and (iii) providing the basis for
increased support to Guyana by other
donors.
Risks:                      The major risks affecting the success of
the program are: (i) the possibility that
the Government's commitment to t-he program
of reforms may be eroded because of polit1_
cal opposition to adjustment and to market---
oriented policies; (ii) the severity of the
adjustment program which may depress the
economy to such an extent that the
conditions needed to produce a supply
response may take a long time to
materialize; (iii) lack of implementation
capacity and skilled manpower to carry out
the reforms; (iv) total breakdown of the
already deficient power supply and a
further deteriorati.'n in infrastructure
services which may constrain a supply
response; (v) failure of domestic and
foreign investment to respond to the new
incentive framework; (vi) unexpected
adverse developments in the world economic
environment or weather conditions; and
(vii) failure of donors to provide
sufficient net balance of payments flows in
a timely fashion.
Fac-ors that may reduce the program risks
includes (i) a number of policies outlined
in the PFP which have been already
implemented; in particular, actions have
been taken on the exchange rate, fiscal,
monetary and incomes policy reforms
negotiated with the IMF, and active
negotiations are under way to establish
joint ventures, divest and/or obtain
management contracts for major public
enterprises; (ii) the provision of
technical assistance to strengthen the
Government's implementation capacity and
preparation by the Inter-American
Development Bank of a power sector
rehabilitation program; and (iii) the
Government's commitment to the pr:ogram has
been supported by pledges of financial
assistance from the donor community through
the Support Group for Guyana and the



- iii -
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Zconomic
Development.
A#Mraisal Report:           None.
Ma :                         IBRD No. 11683R1



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DTRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE COOPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) in the amount of SDR 59.8 million
(US$78.0 million equivalent)1 in support of the Government's economic
recovery program (ERP). The credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40
years' maturity including a grace period of 10 years. In support of the
program, cofinancing is also being considered by the Caribbean Development
Bank (US$42 million equivalent) and the Federal Republic of Germany (US$6
million equivalent).
2.       The proposed SAC would be the first operation in Guyana since
1986. Because of the status of Guyana's overdue payments to the Bank,
disbursement on all Bank loans and IDA credits to Guyana were suspended on
August 15, 1986. On December 15. 1986, the Bank placed Guyana's overdue
account in non-accrual status.
3.       The Government, with the assistance of Bank and Fund staff
prepared a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in 1988 which outlined the
Government's proposed measures for addressing economic problems over the
medium term, including the normalization of relations with its external
creditors. In July 1988, the Bank, through its leadership in the Caribbean
Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED), began efforts to
mobilize the necessary financial resources to support Guyana's proposed
medium-term adjustment program. In early November 1988, the Fund-sponsored
Support Group for Guyana was established under the chairmanship of Canada.
The Support Group has led the external resource mobilization effort since
that time.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
4.       An economic report entitled "Guyana:  A Proposal for Economic
Recovery" (Report No. 6501-GUA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 8, 1987. The Guyana PFP was reviewed by the Committee of the
Whole of the Bank on July 12, 1988.   An updated PFP will be distributed
shortly to the Executive Directors for review by the Committee of the Whole
oni the same date as the Executive Directors' consideration of the proposed
SAC. The following paragraphs incorporate the most recent information
obtained by the post-appraisal mission for the proposed SAC that visited
the country in April 1990. Annex I contains the key economic indicators.
Background
5.       Guyana's economy is based mainly on the production and export of
bauxite, sugar and rice. The greater part of the agricultural activity is
1/ Includes SDR 2.6 million (US$3.4 million equivalent) from IDA reflows.



concentrated along the coastal belt of the country (where most of the
population resides), whereas the extensive mineral and timber resources
within the densely tropical hinterland -- with the exception of bauxite
mining -- remain largely unexploited. Because of the country's topography
and the uneven distribution of its small population, Guyanass
infrastructural needs are substantial on a per capita basis. Guyana's
population, estimated at 756,000 in mid-1988, has been declining in recent
years as a result of a low birth rate and continuous emigration. Economic
activity has been retarded, however, by a difficult physical environment,
sharp fluctuations in output stemming from the vulnerability of the economy
to exogenous factors such as weather and fluctuations in international
prices and demand, and the Government's failure to address economic issues
adequately.  Guyana's per capita GNP of US$410 in 1988 was the second
lowest in the Western Hemisphere (only slightly higher than US$360 in
Haiti).
6.       After independence in 1966, the development strategy had been to
increase the participation of the public sector in economic activity and to
promote producer, consumer and marketing activities in the public sector.
The Government expanded state-owned enterprises, created new state-owned
financial institutions and nationalized the country's bauxitelalumina and
sugar industries. The Government progressively became the main employer
and now controls over 80% of the recorded import and export trade. The
growing role of the public sector is reflected in the increase in its share
of gross domestic capital formation from 402 in 1968 to 852 in 1988.
Economic Perlormance
7.       Economic performance in the 1970s and 1980s raises basic issues
regarding the public sector's capacity to play an active and expanding role
in the development of the country. The rapid expansion of the public
sector involvement in the economy over the past 15 years was accompanied
by the stagnation of private investment, both domestic and foreign, and the
emergence of a parallel economy. Economic performance during the 19708 was
mixed. During the first half of the decade, GDP grew by about 42 per annum
in real terms as a result of favorable prices for Guyana's major export
commodities and the rapid growth in government expenditures. Unlike many
other developing countries, the rapid increases in oil prices during
1973-74 were only slightly disruptive in the short term, as they were
offset by a boom in the price of sugar in 1974-75. The terms of trade for
Guyana improved by approximately 30% during 1970-75. National per capita
income increased by about 6t per annum, resulting in a rapid expansion in
consumption and investment (5Z and 102 per annum, respectively). Much of
the growth occurred in the public sector, which utilized the windfall
associated with sugar to expand both central government consumption and
investment expenditures. On the other hand, the period 1975-80,
characterized by an expanding public sector role, witnessed a period of
economic decline as a result of the fall in sugar prices, the weakening in
the demand for Guyana's main exports, and the reduced output in the two
main export commodities (bauxite and sugar). The terms of trade fell by
over 301 during 1975-80, wiping out the gains enjoyed in the first half of
the decade. Moreover, the level of domestic expenditure was not adjusted
promptly with undesirable implications for the balance of payments. During
1975-80, the resource gap averaged 12% of GDP compared to less than 22
during 1971-75.



-3-
8.       Guyana's real gross domestic product decreased at an average
annual rate of 6Z during 1981-83 as output in virtually all sectors fell.
with commodity-producing sectors exhibiting particularly sharp declines.
This downturn resulted from the closure of some ba:sxite production
facilities owing to weak external demand, and the curtailment of imported
inputs for the other sectors. Economic growth averaged only about 1X per
year in 1984-87, and was not adequate to offset the decreases in the
preceding years. The level of recorded output in 1987 was thus some 1SZ
below that of 1980 and 20X below that of 1976. Throughout most of the
period 1981-87, Guyana's principal export commodities (bauxite, sugar and
rice), accounting for about a quarter of GDP, encountered a number of
technical, organizational and financial problems and adverse weather
conditions. The resulting decline and subsequent stagnation of production
was compounded by weak external demand and falling world market prices for
these commodities, which account for about 802 of Guyana's merchandise
export earnings. Reduced foreign exchange earnings cut into the country's
capacity to import inputs needed for production purposes. Consequently,
input shortages led to considerable capacity underutilization (up to 60Z),
raising costs of production and further reducing the profitability of
production.
9.       The public sector finances deteriorated markedly during 1981-86.
A steady erosion of the Central Government's revenue base, as a consequence
of both the decline in real economic activity and the growth of a parallel
economy, coupled with growing expenditures (especially interest payments)
led to widening current account deficits which increased from 15% of GDP in
1981 to 40Z in 1986. Similarly, the financial performance of the rest of
the public sector deteriorated, partly as a result of the continued
underutilization of capacity. The public sector's overall deficit
deteriorated from 432 of GDP in 1981 to 522 in 1986. However, following
the adoption of reforms in a number of public enterprises, the financial
position of the public enterprises improved somewhat -- leading to an
overall public sector deficit equivalent to 36S of GDP in 1987.
10.      Guyana's external trade and payments situation remained extremely
weak during 1981-87. Total export earnings declined steadily through 1983,
and while they picked up a little during 1984-87, it was not sufficient to
avert a continued deterioration of the balance of payments. The currency
devaluation of 32Z in i984 failed to yield a devaluation in real terms.
The main source of financing for the balance of payments was the
accumulation of external payments arrears as Guyana was unable to meet its
external payments obligations. The Government devalued the currency once
again, by 562 in January 1987. But its effects were eroded by the
persistence of large fiscal deficits and monetary expansion which triggered
further price increases in 1987; consequently, no devaluation in real terms
was achieved.
11.      The 1984-87 period was marked by a low level oi aggregate resource
availability, an increasing divergence between the investment and savings
rates especially of the public sector and, correspondingly, an increasing
dependence on payments arrears to finance domestic expenditures. The
Government took a number of measures to increase output and exports and
reduce Guyana's imbalances. The scope of domestic price controls was
reduced, public sector prices were increased to reflect the devaluations



- 4-
and special efforts were made to rehabilitate the bauxite and sugar
industries. A number of public enterprises were reorganized and
restructured. Measures were also taken to curb central government
spending. Although these measures were in the appropriate direction, they
were insufficient to deal with the severity of the country's problems.
Government Response to the Crisis
12.      Since July 1988, the Government has taken a number of steps to
implement policies outlined in the PFP. In early August, price controls
were removed from all remaining items2 except for petroleum products,
transportation, rice, sugar and a few other essential items.   Import
prohibitions were also removed on all items, except for food products3 on
grounds of the national objective of food security through self-
sufficiency. In addition, and in compliance with the PFP, the licensing of
uno funds" imports, i.e., those not involving the use of official foreign
exchange, was liberalized beginning September 1, 1988, so as to allow
private individuals to import without licenses, items for their own use.
In the fiscal area, some measures to raise tax revenues were implemented in
1988, including the Fiscal Enactment (Amendment) Bill of 1988 and the
Consumption Tax (Amendment) Order of 1988. Also, actions have been taken
to close down two loss-making public enterprises; the Glass Factory has
been closed down and the Public Transportation Corporation is in the
process of being closed down. These actions, in part, helped the Public
Corporations Secretariat (PCS, formerly GUYSTAC) group of 27 public
enterprises to increase its overall surplus from 12 of GDP in 1987 to 4.52
of GDP in 1988. Also, in July 1988, the Government issued a document
setting out the incentives available to the private sector and in August
1988, Guyana joined MIGA.
13.      The economy, however, witnessed a setback in 1988, with real GDP
declining by about 32. This was largely attributable to heavy rains which
affected sugar production and bauxite mining and a fall in rice production
owing to the blast disease. Hcwever, better management of public
enterprises enabled the Government to reduce the overall public sector
deficit to 33Z tf GDP in 1988. Guyana's public sector external debt stood
at about US$1,;.,7 million (equivalent to 683? of exports) as of end
December 1988, of which external payments arrears amounted to US$1,141
million (438? of exports). The debt service obligations (including
arrears) in 1988 amounted to 83? of exports while the scheduled interest
payments amounted to 372 of exports.4
21 These include mild steel, welding electrodes, agricultural machinery,
horticultural tools, bicycle spares, tires and tubes, spares for grain
milling machinery, soap, detergents, matches and edible oil.
3/ These food categories include meat, fish, poultry, vegetables, fruits,
processed meat and fish, beet sugar, confectionary pastries and jams.
4/ As in the PFP, all magnitudes relating to the external account are
expressed as shares of exports of goods and non-factor services. A
meaningful analysis of time trends in relation to nominal GDP is
precluded by wide disparities in the impact of a series of major
nominal devaluations upon the estimation of external account magnitudes
and nominal GDP.



- 5 -
14.      Following agreement on the PFP, the Government initiated
discussions with the Fund in late 1988 about a possible program to support
its Economic Recovery Program. Negotiations on a Fund-monitored economic
program for 1989 were concluded in February 1989 and the program was
endorsed by the Fund Board in April 1989. As part of this program, the
Guyana dollar was devalued at the beginning of the second quarter of 1989
from G$l0 per USS to G$33 per US$ (230Z in G$ terms). Following the
devaluation, the prices of controlled items were adjusted as follows:
sugar (producer price) - 225Z; rice (producer price) - 125Z;
gasoline/diesel - 200X; transportation - 100?; cooking gas - 175X.
Interest rates were also increased, with the bank rate rising from 15? to
35?. As part of the same policy package, the public sector nominal wage
increase was limited only to 20?. The devaluation led to an increase in
prices. as measured by the official consumer price :.dex, of 402 in April
1989.
15.      The program eased some of the long-standing price distortions in
the goods markets (for the above products) and in the foreign exchange
market. The parallel rate (for foreign exchange) came down from G$60 per
US$ prior to April 1989 to G$48 per USS after the devaluation--owing to a
sizable reduction in purchasing power and in domestic liquidity. But the
cut in real wages of at least 25? combined with increased transportation
costs affected the su-pply of labor and led to strikes, absenteeism,
resignations and out-migration. In the two major export industries, i.e.,
sugar and bauxite, strikes resulted in a net foreign exchange loss of about
US$20 million. This loss together with the fact that disbursements of
commodity assistance during 1989 amounted to only US$27 million compared to
US$41 million envisaged in the program were the major reasons for a
disappointing economic performance in 1989 (discussed further in paras.
45-47).
Key Adiustment Issues
16.      Macroeconomic Issues.  Guyana continues to face major structural
imbalances. These stem from the failure to correct, until recently, an
overvalued exchange rate and price distortions. Guyana's economic problems
are also attributable to an over-extended and inefficient public sector,
responsible for a significant deterioration of public finances. At the
same time, the lack of a clear role for the private sector also dampened
economic activity. The country's capital stock has deteriorated and the
state of disrepair of physical infrastructure has resulted in serious
bottlenecks. The decline in the standard of living over the years has led
to an exodus of qualified personnel and to a shortage of skilled labor and
experienced managers. Thus, major weaknesses in management and project
implementation remain in the public sector and there is a need to continue
Government's efforts to divest activities and to evolve a more efficient
public sector.
17.      Sectoral Issues.  A number of sectoral issues need to be addressed
in order to increase output, raise export earnings and promote a recovery
of the economy. In this regard, agricult!re which currently accounts for
about 25? of GDP and over 45? of total merchandise exports requires special
focus since it is expected to continue to generate a substantial portion of
Guyana's net foreign earnings over the medium-term and to remain the



-6-
mainstay of the economy for the foreseeable future. Specific issues to be
addressed within the sector include: (a) measures to further improve
performance in the sugar subsector through cost reduction, rationalization
of milling capacity, organizational improvement, maintenance of adequate
crop (ratoon) renewal as well as measures to sustain proposed export
targets by meeting the rehabilitation and new investment needs of the
sector; (b) the continuea provision of incentives (mainly pricing,
including access to foreign exchange), input supplies (fertilizers,
herbicides and pesticides) and the maintenance of adequate research,
extension services and water management to facilitate increased
productivity and production in the rice sector; and (c) the provision of
adequate infrastructural and marketing support to facilitate increased
production of rice and other crops, as well as increased production in the
fishery and forestry subsectors. In the mining sector, major efforts are
required to address the rehabilitation needs of the bauxite industry which
had accounted for about 35Z of merchandise exports and about 6X of GDP. In
the manufacturing sector, policies are needed to promote growth of
primarily the nontraditional manufacturing sector which accounted for less
than 102 of GDP in 1987-88. These include the continued implementation of
an appropriate exchange rate regima, further deregulation of the economy,
and the provision of incentives and infrastructural support.
18.      Guyana's quest for medium-term growth, however, is expected to be
difficult owing to its heavy dependence on its three traditional export
sectors, highly vulnerable to fluctuations in international prices and
demand. On the other hand, lead time is needed to develop nontraditional
sectors. While the bauxite sector is affected by obsolete plant and
equipment and weak financial performance--both of which adversely affect
production efficiency--it continues to have a high potential for increased
export earnings owing to the buoyant market for calcined bauxite, the
market for which is shared only with China. At the same time, potential
exists for the development of nontraditional sectors in agriculture (e.g.
fruits, vegetables and dairy products), manufacturing (clothing, footwear,
beverages and furniture), mining (gold and diamonds) and forestry. The
speedy and efficient development of these sectors will require maintenance
of export competitiveness and participation by the indigenous private
sector together with foreign investors--which in turn would depend upon a
fundamental restructuring of the macroeconomic policy framework to provide
incentives to expand production and exports. The Government is fully
committed to the implementation of the policy reforms set out in the PFP as
the only means of moving the economy out of 15 years of cumulative
deterioration and placing it on a sustainable growth path. A clear sign of
the change in approach are the initiatives taken recently to establish
joint ventures, divest and/or negotiate management contracts with foreign
firms for the bauxite, sugar, electric power, air transport, and
telecommunications sectors, and a number of other public enterprises (para.
23). Given the Government's commitment, the chances of success of a
structural adjustment program will depend in substantial measure on whether
the necessary external financial support can be mobilized and the necessary
technical assistance can be secured.



-7-
PART II - COUNTRY STRATEGIES AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
19.      The main objectives of the Government's ERP are set out in a
Letter of Development Policies (Annex V). These objectives are tot
restore economic growth and later increase it above historical levels over
the medium term; eliminate internal and external imbalances; incorporate
the parallel economy into the official economy; and normalize Guyana's
financial relations with its external creditors. To attain these
objectives, the Government has given the highest priority to the
restoration of incentives through a realistic exchange rate regime, removal
of remaining price distortions, trade liberalization, and promotion of
private sector development. It gives high priority also to the improvement
of the public sector finances through a streamlining of the civil service
generating surpluses from public enterprises and a selective divestment
program. Rehabilitation of the basic infrastructure, critical to an
increase in exports and private investment, is to be emphasized through the
launching of a public sector investment program (PSIP) consistent with a
viable macroeconomic framework. Finally, in order to protect groups that
are particularly vulnerable during the adjustment process and to maintain
public support for the economic recovery program, a social impact
amelioration program (SIMAP) is to be implemented in parallel with the
medium-term adjustment program.
20.      An exchange rate regime is being implemented to help ensure
external competitiveness and protect the balance of payments. The exchange
rate will be reviewed periodically with a view to progressively eliminating
the divergence between the official rate and the free market exchange rate.
To guarantee exporters a minimum of foreign exchange for importation
requirements, the Bank of Guyana had established foreign exchange retention
schemes that allow selected exporters to retain a certain percentage of
their export proceeds depending upon the availability of adequate foreign
exchange at the Bank of Guyana. The retention schemes will be gradually
eliminated as more foreign exchange becomes available for meeting all bona
fide payments.
21.      .n order to support private investment, new measures will be
instituted to reduce the processing time for the approval of fiscal
incentives for new projects. There are also good prospects for promoting
increased production of mineral deposits (notably gold and diamonds), for
which appropriate policy incentives such as tax holidays, exemptions from
consumption tax and accelerated depreciation allowances are being provided
in order to encourage the required private sector investments.
22.      The Government will adopt fiscal policies aimed at reducing the
overall public sector deficit, consistent with a sustainable balance of
payments position over the medium term and also, increased public sector
savings. Measures to increase revenues include improving of tax
administration and broadening the tax base, adopting a program to address
deficiencies in the application and administration of consumption taxes,
and reducing import duty exemptions. The objective is to enhance revenue,
minimize disincentives, improve resource allocation and help incorporate
the parallel economy into the official economy. Measures to reduce



-8 -
expenditures include the close monitoring by sector of recurrent
expenditures on supplies and materials; the termination of transfers to
public enterprises, except to the Guyana Electricity Corporation and for
maintenance expenditures of public enterprises to be fully divested (during
the period in which assets are valued, tenders are called and analyzed and
the sale is negotiated); the restraining of increases in public sector
wages and salaries; and the strengthening of budgeting, monitoring and
fiscal reporting procedures. The reduction of central government
expenditure is also to be achieved through rationalization measures
including the elimination of overlapping functions and non-critical
vacancies in the civil service.
23.      A corporate strategy has been developed for the enter-)rises under
the Public Corporations Secretariat (PCS) with a view to determining which
enterprises will be kept within the Government's control and which should
be divested. Altogether 12 enterprises have been identified for divestment
and options include closure, total or partial sale to the private sector,
joint venture arrangements, or leasing contracts. A Policy Group chaired
by the President has been set up to guide the divestment process and a
Divestment Unit staffed with lawyers, financial analysts and economists has
been set up to carry out the technical work needed for divestment. In the
case of the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO), separate accounting and
management systems will be established and foreign investment will be
sought for both its sugar and non-sugar production activities. In order to
derive policy recommendations, the problems and prospects for private
sector rice exports will be reviewed by the Governtment with assistance from
the Inter-American Development Bank. Meanwhile, the Government has already
taken a number of steps to improve the bauxite industry including the
securing of a European Development Fund Loan to rehabilitate the industry
and discussions with Reynolds International of United States and Alcan of
Canada about possible joint ventures. In February 1989, Reynolds
International signed an agreement with the Government to commence mining,
marketing arid sales of bauxite. The initial capital investment is
estimated at US$25 million. Discussions are also under way with Bookers of
United Kingdom to obtain management assistance for the sugar industry and
with British Airport Services Group, to run the country's international
airport. In addition the Government has sought foreign equity
participation in Guyana Airways and the Guyana Electricity Corporation.
Also, discussions are in progress with a US company on the sale of 80Z of
the Goverrnment's equity in the Guyana Telecommunications Corporation.
24.      The Government will review annually during 1990-92 the size and
composition of the rolling three-year Public Sector Investmenit Program
(PSIP) to ensure its consistency with the objectives of the economic
recovery program, projected domestic and foreign resource availability and
implementation capacity. Particular attention will be given to adequate
costing of projects and the timing of project disbursements as well as to
the economic criteria for admission of new projects. The State Planning
Secretariat will be adequately staffed to provide guidelines for project
preparation to the line ministries and goverrnment agencies and for
evaluation and monitoring of projects. Additionally, the management of
external aid coordination and resource iAobilization will be strengthened at
the Mlinistry of Finance to maintain continuous contact with donors and to
accelerate the internal processing of loans and grants, and disbursement
requests.



-9-
25.      The above-mentioned initiatives signal a fundamental change in
economic management -- from one based on state intervention and controls
towards a market-oriented economy with a much greater role for the private
sector. In sum, the Government has given the highest priority to the
restoration of incentives through a movement towards a realistic exchange
rate regime, removal of price distortions, trade liberalization, promotion
of private, local and foreign investment and divestment of public
enterprises. However, this change of direction is constrained by the lack
of balance of payments support to finance imported inputs needed to restore
economic growth and the lack of investment resources for complementary
infrastructure.
B. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
Past Assistance
26.      The first Bank loan to the then British Guyana was made in 1961
for an agricultural credit project and was repaid in full. Since
independence in 1966, Guyana has received, net of cancellations, US$76.2
million in loans from the Bank and US$44.8 million in credits from IDA,
covering twenty development projects and programs. These include
assistance in the highways, power, education, agriculture, livestock, and
petroleum sectors; a sea defense project; a  structural adjustment
loan/credit; and two technical assistance projects.   A Bauxite Industry
Technical Assistance Project in an amount of SDR 6.6 million (Credit
1729-GUA) was approved August 5, 1986 but is not yet signed because of
Guyana's arrears situation with the Bank.
27.      Earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana were aimed at
strengthening both the physical and social infrastructure as well as
governmental institutions. The Bank Group has also supported the
Government's economic program through a Structural Adjustment Loan
(1948-GUA) for US$14 million, a Structural Adjustment Credit (1098-GUA) for
US$8 million and an associated Second Technical Assistance Loan (1949-GUA)
for US$1.5 million, all of which were approved by the Board on February 3,
1981. An IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was also approved in 1981.
Guyana's performance under the first year of the DMF Extended Fund Facility
and the Bank's SAL fell short of the targets set. In mid-1982, the Fund
arrangement was terminated. The structural adjustments envisaged under the
Bank's program also did not materialize because of the slow rate at which
planned policies were implemented. Partly as a result of the slow and ad
hoc implementation of policies formulated, economic performance continued
to deteriorate. An evaluation of the performance of the adjustment program
(OED Report No. 6119 of March 25, 1986) focused on two weaknesses: the
lack of government commitment to the basic policy thrust of the program and
the lack of institutional capacity to implement the program. Other
problems were the inclusion of too many conditions, the unrealistic time
frame for carrying out a number of actions, and the lack of specificity in
the conditionality set out in the program. Deadlines were attached to a
wide range of detailed actions of varying importance, most of which
required periodic reporting. According to the evaluation, the program was
rushed through without sufficient appreciation of the need to have the
proposals under the program fully considered within the Government. The



- 10 -
proposed SAC, which focuses on supply side macroeconomic conditions rather
than detailed sectoral ones, has been developed with the Government over
the past 18 months and the Government is fully committed to its
implementation. As described below (para.34) the proposed Technical
Assistance Credit seeks to address the issue of implementation capacity.
Proposed Bank Group Assistance Strategy
28.      While the Fund-monitored program currently under implementation
will help reduce internal and external imbalances, such efforts will not be
sustainable unless the economy can resume growth above historical levels.
This would require a significant improvement in the supply side conditions
needed for economic growth, balance of payments support to meet increased
import needs, and technical and management skills to implement the program.
The run-down state of the country's physical infrastructure also calls for
a major rehabilitation effort, including new investments to promote
economic growth. There is a need also to address the social cost of
adjustment and its potentially t;egative effects if its impact is not
cushioned.
29.      Accordingly, the main elements of the Bank Group country
assistance strategy are to: (a) complement the Fund's stabilization
program by focusing the proposed SAC on the improvement of incentives and
public sector reforms; (b) assist the Government, through the provision of
technical assistance, to ensure that the financial assistance being made
available for the rehabilitation of the productive sectors and
infrastructure is efficiently used; (c) support the rehabilitation of the
bauxite sector; (d) assist in the rehabilitation of the social
infrastructure; (e) design an economic and sector work program with further
emphasis on the incentive framework, infrastructure rehabilitation and
development, public sector management, agriculture development and mining;
and (f) through the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
to help Guyana mobilize the external resources to support infrastructure
rehabilitation and other objectives of the PSIP.
30.      Consistent with the above strategy, and taking into account
planned lending activities of other agencies and IDA resource constraints,
the proposed lending program in the near term is expected to include the
proposed SAC and related proposed Technical Assistance Credit, in addition
to (i) a possible bauxite rehabilitation project on IBRD terms which,
because of creditworthiness considerations, would be processed as an
"enclave-type" operation, and (ii) a proposed social sector project, with
emphasis on possible improvements in rural health delivery systems.
Support for infrastructure rehabilitation (power, roads, water supply, sea
defenses, flood control and drainage) is expected to be provided by IDB,
EEC and CDB, for agriculture and education principally by IDB, and for
industry by EIB.
31.      The Bank Group has also been assisting the Government's efforts to
mobilize external resources for its Social Impact Amelioration Program
(SIMAP). A Special Donors Meeting of the CGCED was held on July 10, 1989
to seek support for the SIHAP estimated at US$10 million and engendered
expressions of donor support particularly from the IDB and UN agencies.



- 11 -
ResumDtion of Previously Ap2roved Projects
32.      The liquidation of Guyana's arrears with the Bank will permit a
resumption of disbursements under the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project (Credit 1208-GUA) and Upper Demerara Forestry Prolect
(Supplementary Credit--Credit 1555-GUA). The Petroleum project, in the
amount of SDR 1.7 million (US$2.0 million equivalent), was made in
November, 1982 to help finance the Government's efforts to establish blocks
of potential oil-bearing areas for leasing to interested companies for oil
exploration, including the provision of specialist consultant services and
other technical assistance to the Government, a vehicle and laboratory
equipment and materials. As of March 31, 1990 the undisbursed balance of
the Credit amounted to US$1.1 million. The Supplementary Credit for the
Upper Demerara Forestry Project, in the amount of SDR 8.7 millior (US$8.8
million equivalent), was made in March 1985 to help finance cost overruns
relating to the procurement of logging equipment and vehicles, sawmill
equipment, and construction of housing and community facilities and
additional components financed under the Upper Demerara Forestry Project
(Loan No. 1623-GUA). As of March 31, 1990, the undisbursed amount under
this Credit was US$3.7 million. Implementation of both the Petroleum and
Forestry projects has continued albeit at a very slow pace because of
limited government resources. Bank missions will visit Guyana as soon as
possible to review progress and to determine the amounts eligible for
reimbursement under each credit following the lifting of suspension of
disbursements. It is expected that both projects will be closed during
FY91.
33.      The liquidation of Guyana's arrears will also enable the signing
of the Credit (1729-GUA) for the Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance
Proiect, amounting to SDR 6.6 million (US$8.5 million equivalent), which
was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1986. The project would
provide the basis for assessing the medium- to long-term economic and
financial viability of the bauxite industry and assist, as appropriate, in
the preparation of a full scale rehabilitation project. The Government
Agencies involved, the Bauxite Industry Development Company (BIDCO) and
Guyana Mining Enterprise Ltd. (GUYMINE) have been financing out of their
own resources, a number of expenditures relating to the implementation of
the project. The expenditures incurred have been made substantially in
accordance with the Association Procurement Guidelines on the understanding
that they would qualify for reimbursement under the above Credit. It is
estimated that around US$3.0 million equivalent have already been incurred
in reimbursable expenditures.   As US$0.8 million equivalent is the limit
of retroactive financing permitted under the draft Development Credit
Agreement, it is proposed that this limit be increased to US$3.0 million to
allow reimbursement of eligible expenditures already incurred in project
implementation. Utilization of the US$5.5 million equivalent balance of
credit proceeds will be determined after a review with Government of the
most appropriate use of these resources to support the divestment program
for the bauxite sector. The Executive Directors will be informed of the
proposed revised project content.
The Proposed Technical Assistance Credit
34.      The shortage of professional and technical manpower continues to
Impede the operational as well as the development activities of the public
sector. Even basic information needed for macroeconomic management such as



- 12 -
the national accounting data base remains extremely weak, in large part,
owing to the lack of personnel to collect, compile and analyze key economic
data. The lack of professional manpower has also adversely affected the
formulation of effective economic policies and the development and
monitoring of the PSIP. Shortages are most acute in the fields of
economics, engineering, accountancy and industrial management, as reflected
by the large number of unfilled vacancies in the public service. Guyana's
economic recovery program would crucially depend upon developing a
"critical mass" of higher level manpower through increased incentives,
training and technical assistance, and attracting Guyanese professionals
abroad for short periods. IDA will help address some of these issues
through the Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) also being presented to you
today. The TAC both complements the SAC and forms a part of a broader
technical assistance program formulated with assistance from the UNDP.
C. EXTERNAL FINANCING AND BURDEN SHARING
35.      Guyana's lack of a track record or commercial ties with
traditional and new Caribbean area donors have made it difficult to obtain
financial resources from abroad. Also, the amount of support required for
the ERP (See Table 1) is clearly witlhout precedent and its mobilization has
proven difficult. Moreover, substantial financial assistance from the
donor community will be required well beyond the program period.
Tablo 1: GROSS EXTERNAL FINANCINO AND BURDEN SHARING, 1990-91
(US millIon)
1990    1991   1990-91
TOTAL                                760.0    128.4    092.4
Multi lateral                        226.0     6o.1    292.1
o/w: Bank 1/                          69.6     16.8     86.3
Fund                            117.6     27.3    144.8
Other                            89.0     22.0     61.0
Bilateral and others (loci. rescheduling)  640.0  80.3    800.3
TOTAL                                100.0    100.0    100.0
Multilateral                          29.6     62.3     32.7
o/W: Bank                              9.1     13.3      9.7
Fund                             16.3     21.6     18.2
Other                            5.1      17.4      6.8
Bilateral and others (incl. rescheduling)   70.6  47.7  87.3
I1 Includes project financing. See Table 2.
Source: Annex T.



- 13 -
36.      The aggregate financing for the three years period is based on
current assumptions of export receipts and a projected large increase in
imports, both related to the recovery of the sugar and bauxite sectors.
The trade deficit is thus projected to increase from an annual average of
US$17 million in 1988-89 to some US$67 million per year during 1990-92.
37.      The above trade balance projection is sensitive to unexpected
developments in the prices and volume of bauxite and sugar. A 10% drop in
export volume or price of bauxite would worsen the trade deficit by about
US$10 million while the same outcome in either price or export volume of
sugar would worsen it by US$8 million per year.
38.      In 1989, Guyana's actual debt service (as opposed to scheduled
debt service which was much higher) was about US$42 million or 17% of
export earnings. The actual debt service is projected to average around
30% during 1990-92. Barring a major unexpected favorable development
affecting the trade balance, the debt servicing capacity of the country
will depend, particularly in 1990-91, on timely official assistance made
available on concessional terms.
39.      Taking into account the repayment of arrears due to the Bank
(about US$57 million by mid-June 1990), and debt service obligations, the
expected pattern of disbursements would be as follows:
Table 2: WORLD BANK NET DISBURSEMENTS AND TRANSFERS TO GUYANA, 1990-91
(US$ millions)
19So    1991    Total
Inf tows
IDA SAC                                  65.0    13.0    78.0
IDA TAC                                   0.5      1.8     2.3
Ongoing Operations                        1.0      -       1.0
Bauxite TA                                3.0      2.0     5.0
Total                                 89.5    18.8    88.3
Outflows
Arrears                                  57.0      -      57.0
Debt Service                              6.8    11.0    17.8
of which:
Principal                              3.8      6.0      9.8
Interest                               3.0      5.0      8.0
Total                                  63.8    11.0    74.8
Not Otsbursements                         8.7    10.8    19.6
Net Transfers                             6.7      6.8    11.6
Source: Proposed Lending Program.



- 14 -
PART III - THE FUND PROGRAMS FOR 1989 AND 1990
40.      The essential policy components of the Fund-monitored economic
reform program for 1989 were:
41.      Exchange Rate Policy.  Following the adjustment of the official
exchange rate system which took place in April 1989, the Government was
required to implement a flexible exchange rate policy to help ensure
external competitiveness and protect the balance of payments. A mechanism
for triggering adjustments in the exchange rate was to be reviewed
periodically and, if necessary, adjusted to maintain it within a 15% margin
from the parallel exchange rate. In addition, adjustments to the official
exchange rate were expected to take into account domestic nominal wages and
prices in relation to those of Guyana's main trading partners and
competitors, and of developments in international reserves in relation to
the program's targets.
42.      Fiscal Policy.  The Government was required to undertake fiscal
policies that would aim at reducing the overall public sector deficit from
US$140 million in 1988 (33% of GDP) to US$95 million in 1989 (37% of GDP),5
consistent with a sustainable balance of payments position over the medium
term, and increased public sector savings. Measures to increase revenues
included the improvement of tax administration and broadening of the tax
base by restructuring and extending excise and consumption taxes, and
reducing tax exemptions. The objective was to enhance revenue, minimize
disircentives, improve resource allocation and help incorporate the
parallel economy into the official economy. Measures to reduce
expenditures included: the close monitoring by sector of recurrent funding
requirements for supplies and materials to seek further savings; the
termination of transfers to public corporations except to the Guyana
Electricity Corporation; the restraining of increases in public sector
wages and salaries; and the strengthening of budgeting, monitoring and
fiscal reporting procedures.
43.      Monetary Policy.  In line with these fiscal policies designed to
reduce the public sector deficit, the Fund-monitored monetary policies were
designed to ensure consistency with the program's targets for inflation and
the balance of payments deficit. The Bank of Guyana was required to limit
credit expansion consistent with an increase in net foreign assets of US$4
million during the last nine months of 1989 and with an increase of
currency in circulation of 27%. The excess liquidity already frozen will
be converted into medium-term debentures so that potential inflationary
pressures would be deflected while the economy is undergoing
liberalization.
44.      Incomes Policy.  In order to increase employment, protect external
competitiveness and help reduce inflation, the Government was required to
implement a restrained wage policy. Nominal wages were expected to remain
_J The deficit as a proportion of the GDP is higher in 1989 owing a much
higher multiplier (3 fold) of the foreign component in public
investment measured in local currency.



- 15 -
unchanged unless the Guyana dollar was further devalued. Merit increases
were permitted on the basis of productivity increases and the overall
financial situation of the public sector, and wages in the private sector
were expected to continae to be freely determined with the exception of
some non-unionized workers.
Economic Performance and Financial Targets - 1989
45.      The extent of the adjustment effected under the Fund-monitored
program led to strikes in the sugar and bauxite sectors which have impacted
adversely on economic performance vis-a-vis the projected outcome. Bauxite
production dropped to about 1.3 million tons (target: 1.76 million tons)
and sugar to about 164,000 tons (target: 200,000 tons). Persistent
shortages in electricity supply compounded the problem through its damaging
effects on the rice and other productive sectors. Rice production reached
an estimated 143,000 tons (target: 162,000 tons). As a result of these
production losses, the downturn in production in other sectors and
associated losses in the service sectors, real GDP declined by about 3.3%
during 1989 (target: 5% growth). This setback in economic performance
also impacted very seriously on public finances and the balance of payments
during 1989 as described below.
46.      Public Financess  The overall deficit of the nonfinancial public
sector reached 48% of GDP in 1989 compared to a target of 37% of GDP in the
Fund-monitored program for 1989. This deviation in performance is largely
the result of the sharp drop in real GDP and a much wider central
government current account deficit (312 of GDP) compared to the deficit
(21% of GDP) envisaged in the program. The windfall gains envisaged from
the devaluation did not materialize, owing to major production shortfalls
(para. 44) and consequently revenue performance remained weak during 1989.
While the operating surpluses of the two enterprises in the sugar and
bauxite sectors deteriorated severely relative to the program, the
performance of most of the other enterprises relative to the program was
also poor owing to the lack of foreign exchange to obtain essential inputs.
Consequently, the programmed large transfers from the public enterprises
did not take place. This, in turn, led to a much weaker central government
revenue performance than programmed. Furthermore, the Sugar Corporation
bore the cost of an unprogrammed subsidy on the domestic sales of imported
sugar needed to meet the shortfall in production mentioned above. Although
the Government's non-wage current expenditure remained significantly below
the program level, this only partly offset the reduction in revenue and a
further 20% wage increase granted outside the program in August 1989 with a
view to averting further strikes in the bauxite and sugar industries.
47.      Balance of Payments:  The current account deficit for 1989
(accrual basis) is now estimated at 60% of projected exports of goods and
nonfactor services, compared to 48% of programmed exports of goods and
nonfactor services reflecting in part strike losses amounting to US$20
million. The deterioration in the external account was compounded by
slippages in the implementation of commodity assistance from bilateral
sources amounting to US$14 million. Net merchandise exports declined from
an original target of US$260 million to US$198 million. Consequently, the
foreign exchange situation remained extremely difficult. A major
compression of non-project Imports of about US$50 million from the original
target became a serious impediment to growth in 1989.



- 16 -
48,      Dialogue with the Funds  The above-mentioned deviations were
reviewed by the Fund staff and the authorities before and during September
1989. The Fund staff advised the authorities about the need to take
additional fiscal actions plus legalizing the parallel market rate for
foreign exchange (including moving all official transactions to it, except
for those of the highly sensitive sugar and petroleum companies). On the
fiscal side, the Government took the additional measures discussed with the
Fund staff. First, it raised the retail price of sugar from G$Z.90 per lb.
to G$6.2O per lb. equivalent to US cents 19 per lb.--the price at which
sugar was imported in October/November 1989. Second, it implemented a tax
on diesel and gasoline equivalent to US cents 30 per imperial gallon
effective from November 1, 19C9. The Government also enacted the Dealers
in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act of 1989 to legalize the parallel market
for foreign exchange. As of April 1990, 15 Exchange Houses (or Cambios)
were in operation.
The Fund Program - 1990
49.      The main elements of the proposed Fund program for 1990, to be
supported by an ESAF (US$106 million) and a Standby (US$64 million) are:
Exchange Rate Policy
(a) adjustment of the exchange rate in stages to achieve a full
unification of the rate by March 31, 1991;
(b) shifting of more transactions to the newly legalized parallel
market for foreign exchange; and
(c) adj-ustment in the prices of controlled items to allow for the
pass-through of changes in the exchange rate.
Fiscal Policy
(a) an increase in the primary current account surplus of the
public sector from 18Z of GDP in 1989 to 22Z of GDP in 1990
and to 30Z of GDP in 1991;
(b) establishment of a sales tax by December 1990;
(c)  elimination of exemptions from consumption taxes on fuel
enjoyed by fishing trawlers and aviation fuel for domestic
flights;
(d) elimination of exemptions from consumption tax and import-
duty granted to imports of agricultural, forestry and mining
equipment;
(e) restraints on non interest current expenditure of the Central
Government.



Monetary Policy
(a) a progressive movement towards a more market-oriented
approach to monetary control centered on the auctioning of
treasury bills and on the development of secondary markets
for treasury bills and government secarities;
(b) the establishment of a monetary policy unit at the Bank of
Guyana principally to: help determine and implement credit
targets; improve coordination between monetary and public
debt management policies; and monitor credit developments in
the financial systems;
tc) implementation of a market determined interest rate policy
taking into account developments in wages, prices and the
exchange rate which aims at holding interest rates positive
in real terms;
(d) an increase in the rediscount rate on treasury bills;
(e) extending the freeze on excess liquidity; and
(f) increasing the charge for non-compliance (by Commercial
Banks) with liquid assets and reserve requirements.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
50.      The proposed SAC would support the Government's economic recovery
program. The aim of the program is to create viable and stable economic
conditions conducive to restoring a higher and sustained rate of economic
growth.  The proposed SAC comprises the following components:
The Incentive Framework. Reforms in domestic pricing, trade
policy, privete sector investment climate, within the context of a
sound macroeconomic framework, conducive to growth and investment.
Public Sector Finances. Elimination of central government
transfers to public enterprises (PEs), streamlining of the civil
service, increasing transfers from PEs to the Central Government,
and divestment programs for selected PEs.
The Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). Formulation of a
realistic PSIP consistent with the macroeconomic framework and
with the country's implementation capacity.
A. THE INCENTIvE FRAMEWORK
51.      While Guyana's poor export performance had originated from adverse
external factors, it was also aggravated by an erosion of the incentive
framework stemming from the failure to correct an overvalued exchange rate,
price distortions, and the lack of a clear role for the private sector. To
expand exports, the proposed sequencing of actions in the SAC is to first
maintain international competitiveness, second to relax import licensing
procedures and reduce QRs and finally, after achieving the fiscal targets
under the program and strengthening the public sector's savings capacity,
to begin rationalizing the consumption tax structure.  The devaluation of
the Guyana dollar in April 1989 and June 1990 seek to produce a supply
response through producer incentives in the form of higher margins in local
currency.
Domestic Pricing
52.      After maintaining for several years a domestic pricing policy of
keeping fixed prices for a number of consumer goods, the Government freed
the prices of a number of items in 1988, but the prices of sugar, petroleum
products, rice, public utilities services, and public transportation
remained controlled and in some cases unchanged. This policy has had
several undesirable effects, including lack of incentives to private
producers, excessive and indiscriminate consumption subsidies, illegal
trade, and weakening of public enterprise finances from resulting
subsidies.
53.      The price of rice has been based essentially on domestic costs;
international price trends are not explicitly featured in the pricing
formula. Consequently, price signals to rice farmers do not reflect
economic efficiency considerations. Rice exporters also are constrained by
a number of factors such as the shortage of credit and farm inputs,
restrictions on sale to CARICOM countries and excessive regulation. But



- 19 -
the absence of Bank operations or studies on the rice sector has impeded
our ability to develop appropriate proposals for resolving these problems.
Given the importance of the rice sector, a study on the sectoral issues
would be essential. Sugar pricing is also based on domestic production
costs, except for the recent price adjustment (para. 47) to cover the cost
of imported sugar. Since sugar imports for domestic consumption is likely
to continue for the next two years, its pricing needs to reflect the c.i.f.
cost as well as other acquisition costs.
54.      In the case of electricity, price adjustments have been hampered
by the severe shortages in supply. The Guyana Electricity Corporation
(GEC) is currently able to supply only about 16 MW of power stn'ply out of a
maximum demand of about 35 MW in the Demerara Integrated System (DIS).
While plans are under way to rehabilitate the system with IDB assistance,
the GEC is in the process of securing consultancy services for formulating
a least-cost expansion program, from which a long-run marginal cost
estimate of producing electricity could be derived. In these circumstances
and as an interim measure, a feasible solution would be to ensure the
adequacy of electricity prices to cover the full cost of operations.
Thereafter, the Government needs to develop a least-cost expansion program
(LCEP), which will provide the information for setting of tariffs based on
long-run marginal costs (LRMC).
55.      As regards water supply, cost recovery in the sector remains
extremely poor. The Georgetown City Council which serves the largest
segment of Guyana's population, recovers only 65Z of the operational cost.
Poor cost recovery has led to central government transfers, amounting to
about G$2 million in 1988 or 0.12 of total revenue. Cost recovery is
impeded by a severely deteriorated water supply system which provides
neither the quantity nor quality of water required. In the absence of
water meters, costs are recovered on the basis of a percentage charge on
the property value. Plant rehabilitation and the installation of water
meters would take time, and need to be implemented within a sector
development plan. In the case of public transportation, fares were raised
to cover operational costs during April 1989, but the principle of covering
full operational costs needs to be maintained.
56.      Action Program.  During negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(i) putting into effect pricing policies on rice which will reflect
the international price of equivalent grades of rice calculated
at an exchange rate acceptable to IDA;
(ii) setting the domestic price of sugar to cover the c.i.f.
Georgetown and other acquisition costs of imported sugar;
(iv) setting of electricity tariffs to cover the full cost of
operations including depreciation and on developing a 10-year
least cost expansion program which will provide the information
for setting of electricity tariffs based on long-run marginal
costs;
(v) developing a plan to rehabilitate the Georgetown Water Supply
System;



_ 20 -
(vi) setting petroleum product prices (except kerosene used
extensively by low-income groups) to cover the c.i.f. price and
local costs including depreciation; and
(vii) setting public transportation fares to cover operating costs,
including depreciation.
57.      Prior to second tranche release, the Government will:
(i) implement changes in rice, sugar, electricity and petroleum
prices as well as public transportation fares in accordance with
pricing formulas described in para. 56 above; and
(ii) complete the preparation of a least cost expansion program for
electricity supply for 1990-99.
58.      Conditions for the third tranche release will be:
(i) the completion of a study and initiation of an IDA-agreed action
program for improving private sector rice exports;
(ii) preparation of an electricity tariff schedule for all categories
of services with rates equal to at least the long-run marginal
costs and a schedule for implementation satisfactory to IDA; and
(iii)  completion and review with IDA of the Master Plan to
rehabilitate the Georgetown Water Supply System.
Trade Policy
59.      The trade regime in Guyana has only a few remaining distortions
since the Government has taken a number of actions set out in the PFP
during the past two years. Since October 1, 1988, no licenses are required
and no import tariffs are applicable for imports of CARICOM origin. In
addition, the licensing of 'no funds" imports, i.e., those not involving
the use of official foreign exchange was liberalized so as to allow private
individuals to import without licenses from non-CARICOM sources, items for
their own use. Import duties are also in line with the CARICOM common
external tariff (CET) and unlike other Caribbean countries no stamp duties
or other import charges are levied. The remaining issues relate to the
prohibited or negative list of imports and some import duty exemptions.
Regarding the former, agreement was reached with the Government during the
PFP discussions in 1988 to remove all items on the prohibited list except
for 36 categories of food, on grounds of food security. The prohibited
list (applicable only to non-CARICOM countries) now comprises only 146
tariff items out of a total of 2,285 tariff items. These items mainly
comprise meat, poultry, fish, vegetables and some fruits which are produced
locally. The list also contains some processed food items (e.g., canned
fish and meat, processed fruits, etc.). Food processing accounts for 92
out of a total of 550 registered manufacturing units.  But the absence of
survey data precludes an assessment of the production coverage of these
food items which form the prohibited list of imports. Although the
reduction of the prohibited list to a relatively small size (6.42 of a
total of 2285) is a significant achievement, further reductions are needed



- 21 -
from the standpoint of improving the efficiency of domestic production and
generating revenues from import duties levied on these items. In the case
of import duty exemptions, the problem is that these are granted in an ad
hoc manner--leading to loss of revenue and reportedly to an inequitable
treatment of importers.
60.      Action Program.  During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
removal of the remaining items on the prohibited list, except for four
categories of food items (out of 36), representing locally produced basic
foods consumed by the low-income population i.e., non-processed meats,
poultry, fruit and processed fruit items. Prior to second tranche release,
the Government will:
(i) ensure that import licenses are: issued automatically by the
Ministry of Trade within two working days for all applications
not requiring government foreign exchange; and processed within
seven days for all applications requiring foreign exchange from
the Bank of Guyana (excluding items in the prohibited list); and
(ii) remove 16 categories of items from the prohibited list.
61.      Prior to third tranche release, the Government will:
(i) remove the remaining 16 categories of items to be removed from
the prohibited list of imports; and
(ii) begin implementation of an IDA-agreed program to reduce import
duty exemptions.
Other Incentives
62.      Another disincentive for private sector activity concerns the
consumption taxes levied on domestic and imported goods. In cases where a
high consumption tax has been imposed on imported goods subject to high
tariffs, the burden on importers and consequently on domestic consumers is
excessive. Although the consumption tax applies to both domestic producers
and importers, in the case of the former the tax is calculated after the
mark-up (often in the range of 30-40Z to cover overheads and interest), and
for the latter, before the mark-up. This procedure leads to higher
consumption tax payments by domestic producers vis-a-vis importers and
consequently renders them less competitive vis-a-vis importers. Also,
these high tax rates encourage tax evasion. Some cascading of the
consumption tax on domestic production takes place where producers source
their inputs from local suppliers. Cascading of consumption taxes also
takes place when imports of packaging materials and machinery spares are
subject to consumption taxes. Furthermore, there are instances of wide
disparities in the consumption tax rates applied to close substitutes--thus
distorting production choices. These issues would be studied and
recommendations for improvement would be developed with financing from the
TAC.
63.      Action Program.  Prior to third tranche release, based upon the
results of a study on consumption taxes in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, the Government would adopt a program
satisfactory to IDA to address deficiencies in the application and
administration of consumption taxes.



- 22 -
Private Sector Investment Procedures
64.      Private sector investment has also been hampered by the lack of a
well-defined investment code. The Government sought to address this
problem by issuing a document in July 1988, entitled "Guyana Investment
Policyt which sets out the incentives available to the private sector and
includes policies covering the ownership and security of investments,
regulations controlling foreign payments and transfers, the legal framework
for businesses operating in Guyana and the norms to which investors should
conform. The same document also identifies the Guyana Manufacturing and
Industrial Development Agency (GUYMIDA) as the one-stop agency for
investors. Notwithstanding these steps, the general perception in the
private sector is that the investment policy paper is not fully operational
because of the length of processing time.
65.      Action Program.  The Government has instituted new procedures to
reduce the average processing time for the consideration and decision on
fiscal incentives for new projects from ten weeks to five weeks, by
increasing the frequency of the Fiscal Incentives Committee (FIC) meetings
held at GUYMIDA and shortening the time within and between core steps.
These include: reviews by the relevant sector ministry; discussion of the
project at the FIC; and formal approval of fiscal incentives by the
Minister of Finance.
B. PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Central Government
66.      The Central Government's overall deficit declined from around 52S
of GDP in 1986-87 to 372 of GDP in 1988, reflecting the combined result of
reduced current and capital outlays, and a strengthening of current revenue
which had deteriorated in 1987. Although the current balance in 1988
registered the lowest deficit relative to GDP since 1983, it still exceeded
27Z of GDP. The improvement in revenue reflected high tax payments
particularly from the public enterprises, following the 1987 devaluation,
and the payment by GUYSUCO of the sugar levy for 1987. Other taxes rose
much more moderately, reflecting weaknesses both in the tax system and its
administration. On the expenditure side, years of excessive overall
deficits, and a resulting accumulated debt service burden, has contributed
to persistently high deficits evidenced by the 40 to 50S share of
(scheduled) interest payments in total expenditure of the Central
Government over the last five years. In 1988, interest payments on the
debt was the largest expenditure item in the budget, followed by personnel
emoluments. Together these two expenditure categories, which were
equivalent to 46Z of GDP, accounted for almost 58Z of the Central
Government's total expenditure and 692 of current expenditure, while
current transfers added a further 7S of GDP to government expenditure and
the deficit.
67.      A much stronger revenue performance as well as expenditure
restraint will be needed to significantly improve the Government's
financial position. Nevertheless, given the present tax system, including
its narrow tax base, its high nominal rates, and the possibilities for
obtaining exemptions or avoiding tax liability, most of the strengthening



- 23 -
of the revenue side, at least in the initial phase, is expected to reflect
improvements in the performance of the public enterprises (see paras. 71-75
below) and resultant tax and dividend payments to the Central Government.
68.      Restraint on the expenditure side has been exercised in a manner
consistent with the need to increase public investment and allow for
adequate maintenance. First, some savings are expected to be generated
from the improvement in the performance of the public enterprises, which
will result in the elimination of the need for current transfers from the
Government to most of the public enterprises. Second, a policy of wage
restraint in 1989 has already substantially reduced the wage bill, to about
27? of current revenue in 1989 from around 402 in 1986-87. However, this
wage bill could rise sharply, if a large number of currently unfilled jobs
were to be filled. Furthermore, the high vacancy rates, and the
preferential wages offered by some government offices have led to a bidding
away of staff from some essential offices, which cannot offer competitive
salaries, thus putting pressure on the wage bill without improving the
overall staffing in the Government. Given the very large vacancy rates
with which government offices have been working for a number of years,
there is an urgent need for a streamlining of the civil service system to
establish critical positions, eliminate duplicating and redundant jobs, and
establish pay scales in a systematic fashion in accordance with overall
government priorities. To avoid a return to the present situation, a
systematic and continuous review of the civil service would be needed--a
function which falls within the purview of the Management Services Division
(MSD) of the Ministry of Public Administration. However, the MSD is not
adequately staffed to carry out its responsibilities, particularly to
review the civil service and recommend the elimination of overlapping
functions and noncritical vacancies. This issue is being addressed through
assistance for the public service review presently being provided by the UK
Overseas Development Administration.
69.      Action Program.  During negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(i) carrying out a public service review (PSR) with a view to
identifying overlapping functions and non-critical vacancies in
the civil service (i.e., positions not directly related to
output growth); and
(ii) ending all central government current transfers to public
enterprises from 1990 budget onwards, except for the Guyana
Electricity Corporation and for maintenance expenditures of
pubLic enterprises to be fully divested.
70.      Prior to second tranche release, the Government will commission
management audits of the civil service based on the findings of the PSR,
under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Prior to third tranche
release, the Government will begin implementing a program satisfactory to
IDA, to eliminate any overlapping functions and noncritical vacancies
identified in the management audits.
Public Enterprises
71.      The three traditional sectors of the economy, i.e., bauxite, sugar
and rice are dominated by the Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited (GUYMINE),



_ 24 -
the Guyana Sugar Corporation (GUYSUCO) and the Guyana Rice Group (GRG).
Although there have been improvements in the financial performance of these
enterprises since 1980, their financial structures remain extremely weak.
The debt/equity ratio for GUYMINE stood at 4.7:1 in 1987, while that for
GUYSUCO stood at 3.6:1 for 1986 and the net worth of GRG's largest entity,
the Guyana Rice Milling and Marketing Authority (GIMMA) was negative in
1987. Furthermore, the enterprises supervised by the Public Corporations
Secretariat (PCS) known earlier as the GUYSTAC group, have been performed
poorly in the early 1980s, but have shown a marked improvement after 1985.
The combined operating balance of the public enterprises turned from a
deficit prior to and including 1985 into large operating surpluses in both
1987 and 1988, reflecting improvements in their financial position after
the devaluation in 1987. This enabled the corporations to make substantial
tax and dividend contributions to the Government, especially in 1988, where
these payments amounted to 8.7Z of GDP. With an estimated combined
operating surplus of 18.6Z of GDP in 1989, it is estimated that their tax
and dividend payments to the Central Government reached 12.82 of GDP in
1989. equivalent to 9.5Z of their current revenue.
72.      The financial performance of GUYSUCO and GUYMINE, as the two major
exporting public enterprises, was expected to improve substantially in 1989
as a result of the devaluation, and account for most of the initially
projected significant improvement in the operating surplus of the public
enterprises. Following two years when these two enterprises registered
only small combined operating cash surpluses, their targeted combined
operating surplus in 1989 was equivalent to 42.4Z of GDP. However, recent
estimates indicate that a combined surplus for the two enterprises was
about 152 of GDP, compared to 5.22 of GDP in 1988. These deviations
reflect production losses as a result of extended strikes, a more
appreciated exchange rate than targeted, the cost of unprogrammed sugar
imports for domestic consumption, domestic sugar sales at subsidized
prices, and a different cost and demand response than anticipated to the
devaluation of the Guyana dollar. Although the PCS group reached a
somewhat higher than programmed cash operating surplus, it compensated for
only a small portion of the shortfall in GUYSUCO and GUYMINE. The result
has been a major downward movement in the combined operating surplus of the
public enterprises for 1989 from a targeted 46.5Z of GDP to an estimated
19? of GDP.
73.      Rationalization of the operations of GUYMINE and GUYSUCO as well
as those in the PCS group is urgently needed, to improve their efficiency
and ensuring, inter alia, that they make significant contributions to the
Government in the form of taxes, transfers and dividends. Some
rationalization of the enterprises has already taken place such as the
closing of certain loss-making enterprises and the rehabilitation of
others, and progress has been made towards improving their financial
performance and efficiency, but these efforts need to be further
consolidated. For GUYMINE, as already mentioned, negotiations are in
progress with Reynolds International of the U.S. and Alcan of Canada for
the establishment of joint ventures. In addition, the PCS has already
identified twelve enterprises for divestment, and the Government has set up
a Policy Group chaired by the President and a Divestment Unit to implement
the divestment program (para. 23). A corporate strategy statement for the
PCS group already prepared needs to be implemented. In GUYSUCO, sugar
operations are hampered by a lack of capital, while the corporation is
expanding its activities into non-sugar areas. GUYSUCO needs to establish



- 25 -
a strategy to attract foreign capital to help increase sugar production,
and to provide separate accounting and management systems for non-sugar
activities and to attract private investment for these activities.
Discussions are under way with Bookers of United Kingdom to obtain
management assistance for the sugar industry (para. 23). Another
enterprise which needs major rehabilitation is the Guyana Electricity
Corporation (GEC), whose daily shutdowns continue to impair both public and
private sector operations.  The IDB is developing a program for
rehabilitating GEC.
74.      Action Program.  During negotiations, agreement was reached on a
strategy statement committing GUYSUCO to seek foreign capital to improve
sugar production and to set up separate accounting and management systems
and attract private investment (foreign or local) for its non-sugar
activities. i.e., rice production, other grain production, dairy and
livestock development, aquaculture and orchard development.
75.      The second tranche will be conditional upon:
(i) putting into effect an action program and a schedule for
implementing the corporate strategy for the PCS group; and
(ii) establishing operating procedures and auditing systems
satisfactory to IDA to monitor the financial performance of
GUYMINE, GUYSUCO, the PCS Group and transfers of targeted
amounts from these enterprises to the Central Government.
C. PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
76.      The long period of economic decline and consequently inadequate
asset maintenance has resulted in badly deteriorated infrastructure
services. Accordingly, the major focus of the public sector investment
program will be the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure that is critical
for supporting the program's objectives of increasing exports and private
investment. An urgent task is to restore electricity supply to required
levels. At present the main Demerara-Berbice system can supply only about
16 megawatts at most, as against a maximum demand of 35 megawatts.
77.      The composition of the PSIP largely reflects ongoing projects
dominated by a few major projects to rehabilitate electricity supply, the
bauxite industry, sugar and rice sectors and water supply. As regards new
projects, in the absence of a well-developed pipeline of technically sound
and economically viable projects, there is a tendency for the PSIP to
include projects which are at the most advanced stage of preparation rather
than necessarily those of the highest priority. Moreover. there is also a
tendency to include in the PSIP projects of a large size relative to
domestic and foreign resource availability and some times beyond the
country's implementation capacity. There is, thus, a need to design the
PSIP consistent with the macroeconomic framework in terms of size,
composition and financing.  Procedures need to be developed to institute a
pre-investment review system to ensure that individual project proposals
are linked with agreed macroeconomic and sector strategies; and that
stringent tests of economic viability and technical and environmental
feasibility are applied. A three-year rolling core PSIP and a reserve list
of projects needs to be put in place, and a monitoring system introduced.



- 26 -
78.      Action Program.  Agreement has been reached with the Government
on:
(1) the size and composition of the three-year PSIP (1990-92), to
bring it in line with projected domestic and foreign resource
availability;
(ii) modalities including the type of information required, criteria
for admission of new projects, and timing for reviews of the
PSIP (in the context of a rolling three-year framework);
(iii) institutional arrangements--principally the staffing in the
State Planning Secretariat for providing guidelines on project
preparation to line ministries and government agencies, and for
evaluation and monitoring of projects; and
(iv) improvement of external aid coordination through the services of
an advisor (financed by the TAC) to the Ministry of Finance to
maintain continuous contact with donors and to facilitate
procurement and disbursement of funds provided by bilateral and
multilateral donors.
79.      Prior to second tranche release, the Government will implement the
institutional arrangements to strengthen the State Planning Secretariat and
the Bank would review the rolling PSIP and ensure progress satisfactory to
IDA.
80.      Prior to third-tranche release the Government would update the
rolling PSIP in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
D. SOCIAL SECTOR PROGRAMS
81.      Economic decline in Guyana over the past 15 years has led to the
dilapidated state of much of the economic and social infrastructure, with
widespread and substantial reductions in living standards and the provision
of social services. Although the successful implementation of the
structural adjustment program should help reverse this decline in the long
run, some aspects of the program could impose additional stress on certain
segments of the population. The groups of people particularly vulnerable
to the effects of the ERP include the rural and urban poor, the unemployed
and underemployed as well as the retired elderly. Their real incomes and
hence their standard of living are bound to fall in the short run. Another
vulnerable group would be those laid off as part of the rationalization of
the Central Government and public enterprises. In order to protect groups
which are particularly vulnerable during the adjustment process, and
engender public support for the ERP, a social sector program (SIMAP) has
been developed. At the Special Donors Meeting held on July 10, 1989,
expressions of support amounted to nearly US$6 million of the US$10 million
sought.



- 27 -
PART V - MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS. CREDITWORTHINESS AND
EXTERNAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
82.      Predicated on the timely availability of the projected financial
inflows and implementation of the ERP to address the above-mentioned
adjustment issues, projections have been prepared which show that the
economy could recover from its currently estimated decline of 3.3% in real
GDP in 1989, achieve real GDP growth about 2.9% in 1990, and 4.6% in 1991.
In 1992-94, real GDP growth is projected to average about 3.5% per year.
The projected GDP growth in the short term would depend largely on using
existing underutilized capacity for bauxite, sugar, rice, timber, and
manufactured exports. Over the medium term, sugar production is expected
to stabilize at levels compatible with Guyana's export quota to the EEC and
the United States. If, on the other hand, financial inflows are lower than
projected and constrain the imports of essential inputs, a much lower GDP
growth rate would be inevitable. Investment during 1990-92 is projected at
around 34% of GDP, reflecting the execution of externally financed projects
to rehabilitate infrastructure.6    Domestic savings are projected to
remain at around 24% of GDP during 1990-92. Benefits from these savings
and investments, however, will largely accrue beyond the program period
1990-92. Per capita consuzption is projected to increase at 2.6% per year
in real terms during 1990-92 reflecting the increased resource balance in
1990 financed from external sources. The primary current account balance
(before interest payments) of the non-financial public sector will improve
from 18% of GDP in 1989 to 22% of GDP in 1990 and to about 30% of GDP in
1991. However, the overall public sector deficit will increase from 48% of
GDP in 1989 to about 54% of GDP in 1990, owing to increased payments of
interest, increased capital expenditures and the impact of the devaluation
upon the foreign component of the PSIP, before dropping to 41% of GDP in
1991. Based on the successful implementation of the stabilization measures
and the fact that capital expenditures will be financed almost entirely
from external resources in 1990 and largely from such resources in 1991,
the annual rate of inflation is projected tc decline from 90% in 1989 to
about 30% in 1991.
83.      Exports are projected to recover at an average annual rate of
about 9% in real terms during 1990-92, with a significant recovery in 1990,
reflecting the improvement in competitiveness, the timely availability of
inputs, and barring any work stoppages. Exports of high value calcined
bauxite are projected to increase from 417,000 tons in 1988 to 480,000 tons
in 1991. Exports of sugar are projected to increase from 147,000 tons in
1988 to 193,000 tons in 1991. Exports of rice are projected to increase
from 62,000 tons in 1988 to 77,000 in 1991. These export targets are
considered to be within achievable ranges since sugar production averaged
6J Total investment as a prcportion of GDP is relatively high because it
is dominated by public investment (which has a foreign component of
722) needed to rehabillcate productive infrastructure, deteriorated
over the past two decades.



- 28 -
200,000 tons in 1983-86, calcined bauxite output averaged 545,000 tons in
1984-85 and rice exports peaked at 105,000 tons in 1978. Imports are
projected to grow at an average annual rate of about 10% in real terms in
1990-92 based on the assumption that projected external financial inflows
would be forthcoming. The increase in imports in 1990 largely reflects
capital goods imports for rehabilitation projects in the bauxite and sugar
industries and other infrastructure projects. The trade deficit is
projected to increase from an annual average of US$17 million in 1989-89 to
some US$67 million per year during the program period 1990-92. Beyond the
program period, the trade deficit is projected to decline gradually,
reaching about US$25 million in 1996. A better performance of the trade
balance is not considered feasible during the program period, both because
of the initial narrow base of Guyana's exports and the need to increase
imports to restore and expand productive capacity. Likewise, the external
current account deficit is projected to increase from an annual average of
US$37 million in 1988-89 to about US$150 million per year during the
program period 1990-92. The current account deficit is not projected to
decline vis-a-vis the trade balance, because of projected interest payments
(cash basis) averaging US$43 million during 1993-96.
84.      Guyana's cumulative external current account deficit during
1990-92 is projected at about US$451 million (cash basis). However, with
scheduled amortization (including repurchases to the Fund), and the need to
start building up gross international reserves, Guyana's financing
requirements for the period January 1990-December 1992, are estimated at
around US$784 million--a sizable amount in relation to Guyana's population
of 0.75 million. This gap consists mainly of US$303 million for project
financing,7 and about US$482 million for balance of payments support. The
amount for balance of payments support includes US$229 million needed to
clear arrears, to the Fund (US$142 million), Bank (US$57 million) and the
Caribbean Development Bank (US$30 million). A large part of the external
assistance has been secured through the Support Group for Guyana. As noted
in Aznex I(s), the financing plan to support the ERP is in place.
85.      The financing program for 1990-92 would permit reasonable progress
toward the objectives mentioned above. Essential import levels could be
maintained, arrears could be eliminated during 1990, and existing and
expected rescheduled debt service obligations fulfilled. However, given
the country's small economic base (GNP per capita of US$410 in 1988), the
excessively large debt (US$2,500 per capita) and the time required for
substantial economic growth to take place, the burden of existing debt
obligations and expected rescheduled ones is substantially above the
country's future debt service capacity. Thus, substantial debt relief will
continue to be required for the country during the 1990s. Particularly
cautious economic and financial management will continue to be essential
beyond 1991 in order to complete the adjustment process. The servicing of
external debt obligations has become an increasing burden for Guyana since
the mid-1970s with declining export receipts and increased interest and
amortization liabilities. Prospects of achieving viability in the external
accounts would appear possible over the longer term provided that: (i) the
authorities continue to undertake prompt actions to advance the process of
structural adjustment, and that official assistance continues to be made
available on highly concessional terms in the amounts required; and (ii)
7I For 1990-91, project-related external financing is estimated at US$199
million, of which donor commitments exist for US$161 million.



- 29 -
continued reschedulings are put in place and further debt relief is
obtained. Nevertheless, the situation will at best constitute a wtght
fit' over the short to medium term and, in the absence of a major
unexpected improvement in the terms of trade, it is highly unlikely that
dependence on balance of payments assistance can be eliminated before the
mid- to late 19909. The balance of payments constraint on Guyana's growth
is such that, should the external net capital inflows fall significantly
below projected levels, the country would have to significantly reduce its
growth rate below that included in these projections, thus affecting its
debt servicing capacity.
86.      The initial responses by Guyana's creditors with regard to the
issue of debt rescheduling has been positive. Trinidad and Tobago, the
largest creditor (holding US$412 million, or over 20% of Guyana's total
debt), has agreed to provide a very substantial interett payment relief (no
interest payments until 1991; applicable interest rate reduced by about
113; 10-year repayment, after a 10-year grace period). Likewise, the
Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility which ceased to operate in 1983,
because of Guyana's arrears, has agreed to a similar arrangement to be
applied to a debt of US$146.5 million accumulated as at the end of 1988.
Paris Club creditors also rescheduled debts amounting to US$195 million at
its meeting held on May 23, 1989. On an exceptional basis, Guyana received
"Venice terms' i.e., rescheduling over 20 years, including a grace period
of 10 years. The Fund's contribution would amount to 266% of quota
equivalent to SDR 131 million (US$170 million).   Moreover, some donors
(the United States and the United Kingdom) have recently indicated their
willingness to consider Toronto terms for debt rescheduling. This would be
very important to help reduce the above mentioned risks.
87.      Disbursements from IDA during 1990 and 1991 are shown on page 13
above in Table 2. Because of the need to make debt service payments, the
Bank Group's net disbursement during 1990 (the first year) would amount to
a US$8.7 million. But during 1990-91, the net disbursements would amount
to about US$19.5 million translating to a net transfer of US$11.5 million.
In the case of the Fund, at 266Z of quota, the net transfer during 1990-93
would be marginally positive. The CDB's net disbursements including
project financing for 1990-91 would amount to a positive US$3 million.
PART VI - CREDIT FEATURES
Credit Amount and Cofinancing
88.      The proposed IDA credit in support of the SAC would be US$78.0
million equivalent, to be disbursed in three tranches: the first one of
US$50 million, and two of US$15 million and US$13 million respectively,
depending on compliance with agreed policy conditionality. The first
tranche of the credit is expected to be disbursed within one month
following Board approval, assuming rapid compliance with routine conditions
of effectiveness. The second and third tranches are expected to be
disbursed within six and fifteen months after effectiveness, following
compliance with respective tranche conditionsc  The SAC would be cofinanced
by the CDB (US$42 million) and the Federal Republic of Germany (US$6
million). These, together with the IDA credit would total US$126 million
representing the foreign exchange component of the program.



- 30 -
Procurement and Disbursement
89.      The proposed credit would finance the CIF cost of eligible
imports, excluding alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco products,
sugar, luxury goods products, military and hazardous and other goods
specifically prohibited in a negative list. Imports under existing
contracts for the supply of certain goods such as fertilizers, petroleum
products, and commodities would be eligible for IDA financing provided that
they were not procured from a single source or under bilateral trade
agreements, unless otherwise agreed by IDA. Currently, the major imports
and their orders of magnitude per year are: petroleum products (US$79
million), fertilizers (US$10 million), spares for GUYMINE (US$12 million),
and spares for the sugar and rice industries (US$15 million) which together
constitute over half of non-project imports. CIDA would be financing
almost the entirety of fertilizer imports and ODA (UK) and the Inter-
American Development Bank would be financing a large proportion of spares
for the sugar and rice industries under their respective lines of credit.
Consequently, of the major import items only petroleum products and GUYMINE
spares are potentially eligible for IDA financing.
90.      IDA review of public procurement procedures in Guyana conducted in
1989 revealed that for large capital purchases or national projects,
procurement is usually carried out through international competitive
bidding (ICB) while local competitive bidding (LCB) is used primarily for
smaller-scale construction or works projects. All central government
procurement fall within the purview of the Central Tender Board (CTB);
public corporations (e.g., GUY4INE, GUYSUCO) and statutory bodies have
their own tender boards. The procurement procedures are generally
consistent with Bank procurement policy. Established importers such as
GUYMINE, GUYSUCO, etc., have over the years developed and depended on long
established trading links with certain key suppliers. Although in many
cases formal requests for price quotations are not issued, these companies
consistently review prices by seeking competitive bids on an on-going basis
in an effort to ensure optimal pricing to the extent possible. A survey of
private sector procurement practices determined that some private trading
companies follow the practice of obtaining competitive price quotations.
However, in many instances, suppliers do not find it worthwhile to send
bids and consequently importers are forced to obtain supplies from a single
source. Also, due to foreign exchange availability constraints, many
importers - particularly those who do not have systematic access to foreign
exchange - deal solely with those foreign suppliers who are willing to
provide credit terms, frequently at a high premium.
91.      A more difficult issue concerns the low value of IDA eligible
imports per month and its implications for retroactive financing. A recent
procurement mission to Guyana explored the possibilities for financing
imports, but its conclusion was that IDA could finance only about US$7
million a month. The main problem is the very depressed state of the
economy, with recorded non-project imports running at about US$190 million
annually. About 152 of petroleum imports are financed by a term credit
from Venezuela, fertilizers are financed by CIDA and spare parts by UK,
ODA, OPEC, IDB and suppliers. Private sector imports are almost all
financed through the parallel market, with the result that recorded private
sector imports for 1989 amounted to only US$24 million. Moreover, the
extreme scarcity of foreign exchange that prevails means that, with the



- 31 -
exception of petroleum, eligible imports by both the public and the private
sectors cannot be planned on a regular basis. Thus, it is impossible to
predict the amount of most import items in any given month. As a review of
purchase prices for petroleum products indicates that they are competitive,
they would represent eligible imports, and IDA could finance about US$5.0
million a month. A rough estimate as to other public and private sector
imports that IDA could finance amounts to US$2.0 million a month. Guyana
is faced with the need to repay a bridge loan from BIS by mid-September
1990. It will need to receive import financing of an amount equivalent to
the full US$50 million first tranche of the IDA resources if Guyana is to
be able to free up foreign exchange resources needed for repayment of the
BIS loan. Since IDA credit effectiveness is expected in late July, and IDA
will be able to finance only about US$7 million of imports a month, this
implies a need for US$43 million in retroactive financing, or 55? of the
proposed US$78 million SAC. While well beyond normal guidelines for
structural adjustment operations, we believe that such amount of
retroactive financing, to cover eligible transactions dating to SAC
appraisal (June 1989), is justified in this case, as the implementation of
the Economic Recovery Program being supported by the proposed SAC and DXF
arrangements began with the major devaluation and related actions in April
1989 and has been underway ever since. But Board presentations of the
proposed IDA and IMF operations, originally scheduled for the latter part
of 1989 were substantially delayed, in large measure because of delays in
arranging the external finance necessary to support the program.
92.      Por the proposed credit, the following procedures will apply:
(a) Contracts for general imports to cost the equivalent of US$2
million or more shall be awarded on the basis of simplified
ICB procedures; this would include all purchases of petroleum
products; and
(b) for all imports to cost under US$2 million equivalent:
(i) public sector agencies and companies will follow their
normal competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA; and
(ii) private sector companies could follow their own
established commercial practices, provided that price
quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two
countries could be sought, except where direct contracting is
permitted under the circumstances described under para. 3.5
of IDA procurement guidelines.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement
procedures will be followed under the credit.
93.      The Bank of Guyana (BOG) would administer the credit and would be
responsible for the collection and maintenance of relevant documentation
under the credit, ensuring that only purchases that meet the agreed
procurement procedures are included in withdrawal applications. To assist
with this work, a qualified procurement agent to be financed from the
Technical Assistance Credit would be retained for the duration of the
credit. Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure
(SOEs), except for contracts valued at US$2 million or more, for which
disbursements would be made against full documentation. The minimum value
for each SOE submitted would be US$100,000 equivalent and detailed
documentation evidencing expenditures would be retained by BOG and made
available for the required audit and also for supervision by the Bank.



- 32 -
Expenditures for goods procured under individual contracts valued at less
thaa US$50,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the
credit.
Benefits and Risks
94.      Benefits.  The main benefits of the government program will be the
graeual improvement in the standard of living of the population through the
restoration and maintenance of higher and sustained economic growth. The
program's success should strengthen the confidence of external donors and
investors in Guyana's growth, balance of payments and employment prospects.
The credit itself will help alleviate the current shortage of imported
irn.uts and intermediate goods that constrains capacity utilization and
export competitiveness. The financing program would permit reasonable
progress toward meeting the Government's longer term macroeconomic
objectives. Essential import levels would be maintained, arrears would be
eliminated and debt service obligations would be fulfilled.
95.      Risks.  The major risk of the policy reform program relates to the
possibilities of setbacks in macroeconomic policy that would produce a
stoppage or a reversal by the Government in implementing the medium-term
adjustment program. Specifically, the risks are: (i) Lack of political
sustainability. While the Government now seems committed to the program.
its commitment may be eroded because of political opposition resulting from
the political and social cost of adjusting to the new incentives and the
low level of net flows in the program.  (ii) The severity of the adjustment
program which may cause drastic cuts in real incomes and labor strikes and
depress the economy to such an extent that conditions to produce a supply
response may take a longer time; (iii) Lack of implementation capacity and
of skilled manpower which could adversely affect the projected supply
response. (iv) A total breakdown of the already deficient power supply and
of the significantly deteriorated transport infrastructure could occur.
(v) Failure of domestic or foreign investment to respond to the new
incentive climate. (vi) Unexpected adverse developments in the world
economic environment (sharp fall in world commodity prices and demand for
Guyana's exports, or sharp increases in petroleum prices) and in weather
conditions; and (vii) the failure of donors to provide net balance of
payments flows on a timely basis which would cause Guyana's export
performance to fall short of the projections. The bauxite sector in
particular would be adversely affected if spare parts and machinery to be
financed through the EDFISYSMIN loan are delayed.
96.      While the above risks are substantial and will not be eliminated
over the medium term, there are, factors that will help to mitigate them.
First and most importantly, the Government has acknowledged that it has no
choice but to tackle the developmental issues head on. The Government has
already demonstrated its commitment to economic reform through the major
devaluation of its currency and price pass-throughs in April 1989 (para.
14). It has also shown a commitment to undertake a medium-term program of
structural reform--by eliminating most trade restrictions, taking measures
to increase revenues and reduce current expenditures, making interest rates
positive in real terms, initiating a rationalization of the public sector,
increasing the pace of divestment, and increasing the role of the private
sector in the economy. Second, the Government is committed to maintaining
export competitiveness. The implementation of this policy includes the
continuous review of the level of the real exchange rate. The recent



- 33 -
legalization of the parallel market for foreign exchange and the movement
of some transactions to this market indicates commitment to this policy.
Third, the program gives priority to the rehabilitation of existing
productive capacity and infrastructure through the provision of imports of
inputs and raw materials required for export production. This should give
a boost to exports, domestic production and employment. In the area of
electrical power generating capacity, there is a critical 15-20 MW shortage
which could adversely affect production and exports. The Inter-American
Development Bank is actively considering financing for this purpose.
Fourth, support through a highly focussed TAC should strengthen from the
outset implementation capacity and also technical work required where there
is a dearth of local expertise. Fifth, Bank assistance in the preparation
of a program to cushion the social impact of adjustment which met with a
positive response from the donors at the Special Donors Meeting of the
CGCED held in July 1989. The IDB has taken a lead role in this area,
although important issues, particularly the need for assurances of adequate
autonomy for the administering agency, need to be resolved to enable IDB
financing to go forward. Finallv, a significant effort to diversify
exports should reduce the adverse effects on export performance of changes
in the international economic environment and in the prices of Guyana's
traditional exports and of petroleum.
97.      Effects on the Environment.  The environmental situation in Guyana
reflects the relatively low state of the country's industrial development.
Ninety percent of the population live on the coastal fringe with 301 living
in five urban centers. As such, human impacts tend to be concentrated in
these areas with the provision of potable water and sewerage and solid
waste disposal being primary concerns. Sufficient cleared land for
expansion of the country's primary exports, rice and sugar, and local food
needs are available as acreage under cultivation and output has declined in
recent years. The population in the country's large interior is scattered
in small settlements involved in various exploitative industries such as
forestry, mining and livestock. Direct impacts from these populations are
generally localized to their immediate areas with mining and forestry
activities having the most long-term impact.
98.      Major environmental issues revolve around current and future
resource development practices. The increase in gold and diamond dredge
mining activities on streams in the interior can be expected to have
cumulative impact on the rivers. In addition, the release of mercury into
the streams can affect fish supply to the indigenous population. These
issues are now being addressed by the relevant government agencies.
Bauxite mining is relatively well controlled and although no efforts are
currently made to remove overburden or clean smokestack pollutants, no
broad environmental damages are occurring as a result of these activities.
The country's forest industry is quite small given the size of the forested
area. Exploration of new forest and mining areas will probably increase
following the completion of the Brazilian-financed 175-mile road from
Letham to Kurupukari and the subsequent completion to Mabura Hill. While
greatly enhancing prospects for the development of Guyana's interior, the
road has the possibility of affecting negatively wildlife and other
biological resources in the area it traverses. Regulations and programs
are being prepared by the Government to control the environmental impact of
the road.



- 34 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
99.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
100.     Because of the time elapsed since Board approval of Credit
1729-GUA (Bauxite Industry Technical Assistance Project), I also recommend
that the Executive Directors approve an increase to retroactive financing
approved under such credit in an amount equivalent to US$3.0 million.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 7, 1990



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
Table I GUYANA - XEY INDICATORS, 1996-1996
Actusl                   Est.                   Proj3ction.
Key Indicators                     1S6      1966   1997    19S8    1999       190       1091     1092    1n93     1994
ODP Orowth Rote                     0.0     0.2     0.7   -2.0      -8.8      2.9      4.6       8.1      a.S      4.0
Per CapiT6 GOP Growth Rate         -2.2   -0.8   -0.8   -8.0    -4.8          1.9       8.6     2.0       2.4      2.9
Co" umtotlen/CapIto O.th Re"       7.7   10.1  -14.4  -16.0        -.7    t1s.8    -4.1    -8.4          3.7      2.8
Actual Debt Serv.(ln USM) I/ 3/    81.7   88.2   81.7   81.9        42.3    76.0   102.9   101.0    111.3   116.1
Actual Debt Service/XOWEFS 2/ 3/    13.2   15.8   11.6    12.4    17.)       80.0     82.7    29.0    27.7    28.0
Gross Inv.t_ent/tP (1096 Pe.)    27.9   26.7    28.6   88.4         82.6    88.8    88.8    84.7    84.6    84.8
Oo _AatU  Sovings/GOP 4/           10.0    0.0    14.2   21.7    28.4        18.9    24.9    29.9    2S.8    26.4
Public Investment/GOP              24.9   24.8   18.6   26.2    26.9    27.1    29.6    27.2    26.9    26.7
Ratio of Public/Private Invest.     9.6   10.0      1.9     8.7      8.8      4.0      7.9      8.6       8.6    38.
C. Oovt. R.v.nu.s/COP              89.4   46.t   88.6   40.1        87.6     41.6    40.0    46.7    48.4    49.2
C. Govt. Curr. Expend./GDP 6/     -76.4  -86.1  -70.6   47.4    -78.2    -67.0    -06.6   -66.6   -06.0   -e6.6
Curr.Acct.OD*.(-) or Sur.(*)/OOP  -88.0  -39.8  -37.0  -27.3   -86.7   -16.6    -19.5    -17.0    -17.6   -17.8
Export Growth Rate (XGCWS)          0.7   -0.8    -2.6   -7.8    -e.0         7.1    20.1    10.7    16.6         0.9
Japort Growth Rote (MWGfS)         18.9     2.0  -10.7  -18.6        8.2    27.4       2.1      9.0      6.7      6.9
Curra.t Account (tin US$) 8/     -111.8  -141.8  -119.6  -100.6   -04.6  -251.0  -108.6   -96.7   -83.6   -78.7
Current Account/XGNWS 8/          -46.2  -67.8  -42.4  -88.e   -26.4   -06.1   -82.6   -27.6   -20.8   -16.8
I/ Debt rescheduling has beo-  projected only up to 1992.
2/ A Im agnitudes relating to tie external aceount (as  n toh  case of PFP). are express"e   s ahares of
experts of goods and nonfector servict. A me_ningful analyalI of time trends In relation to nominal
ODP Is precluded by: a) the underestimation of GOP In the context of a grownog psrallel econemy, and
b) wide disparities In tho ipact of a series of major devluetioen of externel *ccounts magnItude
and the nominal COP.
8/ Actual debt servlce relets payment. In cah.  It alao reflect projected payment. In Ceb for future yera.
Dota on acheduled debt ervlce are presently being prepared by the IUF staff and will be Included
In the PP to be dietributed shortly to the EKecutive Directors.
4/ Guyanoa'  eyea  ecomnmic dat  base precludes a maningul quantifieation of public end private savings
cons;atent with natienal accounting concepts.
6/ Inclodes Interest on public debt (external and dOm tic). Interewt amounted to 82.3 of GOP In 1998.



- 36 -
ANEX I
Page 2 of 7
Tablo 2:  UYANA: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS */
(USJ million)
___________________________________________._____________________________._________________._________
Est. bl                           Projected b/
1989     99     1991    lm      1993    1"94    1s99     1990
A  Exports of Goods & WlS                  244.8  261.9  314.8  848.8  402.8  437.7  472.8  601.0
1. Morchandise (FOB)                   191.6   217.7  266.1  299.1   380.1   80s.7   396.4   419.2
2. Non-Frctor Services                  47.1    44.2   48.5    49.2   86.2    71.0   76.2    81.8
8  I"ports of Goods A NFS                  301.5   384.0  892.1  427.6  464.6  492.0  620.3   652.2
1. Morchandise  (CIF)                  232.2   812.8  317.2   S54.6  374.S  389.4   416.8  444.0
2. Non-Factor Services                  69.3    71.4   74.9   73.0   90.0    96.6   101.7  108.2
C Resource Balance                         -68.9  -122.1   -17.6   -79.2   -42.3  -64.8  -47.7   -61.2
0  Not Factor Incom                         -14.7  -18S.4   -30.6   -87.5   -40.1   -40.9   -37.1   -46.1
1. Factor Receipts.                       0.3    0.6      1.2    1.6      2.1     2.4     2.7     2.8
2. Factor Poyments                      16.0   32.8   87.7    89.1    42.2    4a.8    39.8   47.9
8. Interest arrears (IFI*)                 ..  103.4       ..      ..      ..
E  Private Transere                           7.0     6.7   10.4   21.0    18.9   21.5    24.6   26.8
F  Current Account Balance                  -04.6  -261.6  -108.6   -96.7  -8a.6   -78.7   -60.3   -89.7
0  Long-Term CapItsl Inflow                  18.4  -41.4    60.4   40.8   22.7   22.7   45.6    61.7
1. 0irect Investment                     6.2    10.0   17.0   20.0        6.0     8.0     8.0     8.0
2. Official Capital Orants               6.9     8.0      8.2     8.6     5.4     6.6     5.7      6.9
8. Net ULT Loons                        -0.2  -77.2    81.7   14.8        7.0    7.8    29.8   38.8
a. Dlebura_m  ts                     27.1    98.7    61.6   61.6   66.6    67.1    71.4    78.2
b. Rpoyments                         27.8    44.9    60.1    46.8   66.0   59.0    41.6    87.9
c. Arrears (IFIo)                            126.0
4. Other IILT Flows (not)                4.6      2.8     6.8     1.7     1.7     1.9     2.0      2.6
Totsl Other Item ("et)                  -14.6      0.0  -18.1  -15.2  -11.1  -11.7  -12.6  -13.7
1. Not Short Term Capitol                0.0     0.0  -15.1  -15.2  -11.1   -11.7  -12.8  -18.7
2. Erroro *nd Omissiona                -14.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
I Overall Balance                          -e2.7  -831.2  -58.3  -70.6  -71.9  -62.7  -27.8  -31.7
a / These figures are based on projections of *ctual debt service payments *e opposed to scheduled
debt service payments. Balance of psym_nt. Informstion on an accrual basis through 1992, reflecting
schoduled debt service payments, are presently being prepared by IMf staff. They wll1 be included
In the PFP to tfe distributed shortly to the Executive Directors.
b/  As of Jun e, 1990.



-37-                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
Table 2:  GUYANA: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (contd.)
________          Z(USI million)
Ert.                  Projocted
1969   1990   1991   1992    1998   1994   19S9   1996
_ Financing                                02.7  813.2    6s.3   70.6   70.7   60.9   26.8   30.5
Chang  In Net Int'l. Re  rvec        -4.6   -9.1  -14.3  -10.0   -5.0   -6.0   -8.0   -2.0
Change In Arreera                  -742.4  -425.0  -32.9   10.1   58.7   47.0    9.6   16.5
FInancInq from IFI1                   0.0  222.0   66.0    86.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Exceptional Financing               609.9  626.9   87.6   86.0   22.0   10.9   19.6   17.0
Reschedul ing                     708.0  452.0   21.0   19.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
911at.role ond otho*r              20.9   78.9   10.6   10.0    22.0   10.9   19.0   17.0
K Financing Gap                             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        1.2    1.0      1.3    1.2
L Sharm of Esporta of Oode and NWS
1. Raouraa Balane.                 -23.8  -40.6  -24.0  -22.7  -16.5  -12.4  -10.1  -10.2
2. Totel Interest Paynmnto          -0.0  -51.7  -11.0  -10.6  -10.0   -9.4   -7.9   -9.0
8. Currant Accont 0 lane           -20.4  -90.2  -32.9  -27.6  -20.9  -10.0  -12.6  -18.9
4. MLT Capitol Inflow               -0.1  -28.6   10.1    4.2        1.6    8.1    7.6    9.1
M Foreign Exchange Re.oovest
1. Int'l Reserves (Not)           -114.4  -94.9  -117.7  -180.9  -84.2  -66.0  -80.2  -17.6
2. Gross Re-rve.                    11.8   20.4   84.7   44.7   49.7   54.7   57.7   59.1
S. OG. Res. In MtJw. of IZporta      0.6    0.6    1.8    1.6    1.6    1.7          1.7    1.6
- ----------------- -~~-fl- ---------



- 38-                                  ANNMC I
Page 4 of 7
WYtANA - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DESBT
'                               ~~~~~~~~~~(US9 elIlions *t Current PrIce.)
Est.       Projected
_____  ------------------------------------------------------
1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    199S    1998
A.  Dlibursements
-___________________
1. Public A Publicly Ouer. LT                 58.4   269.1  141.T   99.8   9s.0    94.2   97.4   se.4
Officiel Creditors                        51.9   26e.0  184.9    92.2   07.0 8      7.0    90.2    09.2
Multilateral                            0.0   162.6   100.6    74.1   65.0    57.1    59.4    bl.2
c/w  World Bank                         0.0    6.2    18,2       0.2     0.0     0.0      0.0     0 .
Bilateral                               61.9    96,C    84.4    18.1   82.2    29.9    8.8    20.0
Private Creditors                          4.5   11.1    0.8       7.1     7.2      7.2     7.2     7.2
Suppliers                               4.6      8.4     6.8     7.1     7.2      7.2     7.2     7.2
finepcitl Merkots                       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Others  a /                             0.0      2.7     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
2. Private Non-Over. LT                         2.1     5.4    1.0      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1
8. Totel LT Disburs_ants                       88.5   274.5  142.7    99.4    91.1   94.8    91.5  9s.6
4. IMF Purchsee,                                0.0   117.6   82.1    28.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
5. Net Short-Term Capitel                      0.0      0.0   -15.1  -15.2   -11.1   -11.9   -12.0  -13.7
6. Totel nl. IMtF S Not ST                     58.5  892.0  159.7  107.2    04.0   82.4   04.7   82.8
9.  Repeyents  b /
1. Pubilc & Publicly Ousr. Lt                  15.7  161.6    48.0    41.8    32.9    20.0   20.1    25.1
Official Creditors                         7.4   144.0   23.2    20.8    26.8    24.1    28.1    21.9
Multilaterel                             5.8    18.7   20.2    20.8    16.8    15.4    15.5    16.1
olw  World Bank                          1.6     5.6     8.6     8.7     6.8     5,5      5.?     8.6
Arrears to IFr.                           ..  125.8       ..      ..      ..
elleterel                                1.8     0.0     0.0     0.0    10.0      0.7     7.0    6.0
Privets Creditors                          0.8    17.0   1S.6   13.0       6.1      4.s     8.0     a.2
Supplieors                              0.0    14.8   12.7   10.1        8.2      1.6     0.1    0.2
Financiel Markets                        7.5     0.9     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other .  /                              0.0      2.1     2.9     2.9     2.9      2.9     2.9     8.0
2. Privete Non-Ouer. LT                        11.6     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
3. Totel LT Repayment                         27.0   161.6    48.0    41.8    82.9    20.6    26.1    25.1
4. IMF Repurches                                0.0     6.4     9.4     7.1    25.1    81.2    15.5    12.8
C.   Interet
1. Public A Publicly Omer. LT                  8.1   118.6      9.8     9.1     7.4     6.6      6.0     $.S
OffiJlol Creditors                         6.5  109.8      s.8     5.9     5.4    5.2       s.0     4.0
MultIlaterol                            8.0      5.2     6.s     6.9     6.4      5.2    5.0      4.6
ofw  World Bank                         0.5      1.2     2.0     1.9     1.0      1.6     1.5     1.4
Arrears to IFI                            ..  104.1       ..      ..      ..
1latreral                               0.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   0o.        0o.     0o.
Private Creditors                          1.5     4.5     8.8     3.2     2.0      1.8     0.0     0.7
Suppliers                               0.4      8.7     8.2     2.5     1.3     0.6      0.1    0.0
FinoneclU Market*                        1.1     0.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Other  *J                               0.0      0.5     0.6     0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7     0.7
2. Private N.n-Ouer. LT                         3.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
8. Total LT Interest                           11.3  118.8      9.8     9.1     7.4     6.5      6.8     S.2
4. IMF Service Charge                           0.0     1.8     2.1     1.5     s.5      6.9     3.4     2.9
S. Interest on ST Oebt                          8.0    21.9   26.8    26.5    29.8    29.9   80.6    89.9
7. Total Inl. IMPF & Nat ST                    15.1   187.5    87.7     9.1   42.2   43.3    39.9    47.9
-  -  -- -  -   -   - --- -------                                                                 ------
a / Reftes to natlonslizatlon.



-39 -                                AN7=  I
Page 5 of 7
cuYANA - EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DESt (continued)
(US9 muilien *t. Cu~rrent Prtcest)
-- - - - - - - -   - - - - - -     - - - -  - - - -- - -  - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---------
Est.        Projected
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1996
0.  Debt Service/Exports b6/
1. Public & Publicly Ouer. LT                  9.7  106.2   16.9   14.6   10.0    6.0          6.6     8.1
2. Private Nor-Ousr. LT                        6.1    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
8. Total LT Debt Service                      15.8  106.2   16.9   14.6   10.0    8.0    6.0           6.0
4. IMF Repurchosea.Srv.Chle.                   0.0     3.9    3.7      2.6     7.6     8.7     4.0     3.1
S. IntWret *ly on ST Debt                      1.6     8.4   12.2   12.0   10.0    9.S         9.2   10.7
6. Totel (LT*IMF#ST. Int.)                    17.3  117.5   32.7   29.0   27.7   23.0   19.9   19.9
I.  Interet iurd n Ratics
2. Total Interest/Exports  b /                 6.2    62.6   12.0   11.2   10.6        9.9    8.4      9.6
--- -   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~    ---    -- .--- ----
a J Includes debt service of nely disbuir funda.
b   Ratio to ^Exporto$ with lntter defined to Includo merchandlie and non f*ctor s      lrvice.



U C*FsiifCl  ill   I q  hugt
M          Ii  t t                 LA
.8         1   *ii Oi                     I          'I         I
U.         I



-41-                                       ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
Soddcinasrs OfDloprmn. 1989
Guyua
moo S. J  20i /ifghre
_sw            JO         qe        (we     C.-  _         _        greup
INCOMANPOVER
G?(P~eipia(mzm.198S)                      USS$              _       640        410     1M40         310      1.
TaaIuedh_dh
S tour 10% dbaaa,h                     a                  -          _         _
om0dkmseIuie                            *.                         .                   -
AbWmpm*xyvoww38                                m U          .p..p
Pop nabsalnupovat.m.                    tPOfjap                       .
*~m                                                 -t     9   6.p.   _ 
P,lofinluiMOn.S)                 S     afapgs          * -          32.I    _       ...
Food                                    %ofGDP              ..        _      
Ma-8sb..d1k. as.eW                           43        62         53     17.64     21773i     3f712
~~uodazuiaapercq~~~  197941.100 ~113.1                       77.       1a.       11          R7O
d _p =Zn                          17in4 fIVGDP       241 I                29.2      11.7       33.0      16.
.ianospwpuum        2.274     229        2,4       2.70       2.72       2.757
Hoodag                                  lot f  %4GD?                             .
Avuig. bosuelaMain -                                        "p        *          _
Usla                                        II-;                               ..     9          3 _.
Tmepobtsawinmko.                                                      _                                          .GDP.
%CIGDP         .    .         ..        ..         ..        ..
pe5fa swap                                                                                          4d2iteqbi_ .. kl9.9 5m  -  199
au    I6 a                       %po(S O
o~~~~~~dm~                                   _              ..        .. .
Sid<;~~~~otDP                                     -         -. 
PMals               ..       28         ..        16                    1 7
Rediw.m  uin.msauiimin                                      --*-.
Pquldapuplz                             pin                -         35         24        11         ..         16
INVESTrTI  HUMAN CAnAL
M eao                                 *iGIDP                                                         ...
gm=~~~~~~~~~                                                      3                  1.547:4
b.pi d                         0                -       260        30                   756
AmUUtohiulib ma                           dpaP                   -            Su 8.
[aunwuiud (iadot tlt2_mhsWlhsot%e pm                                   .                 6as 24   441343      64.7
COaRqdlmhajpuawm.d9r5)                    tm                  _ _              9.        33        21.6       28.2
PAdos                                   *D- %dhd-Ops   111.0      950        904      108.1       99.3      1068
S4X_y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 1sg.    67.8   1    1                                       01.80
T *<ewayum           27i        313        17.4 .
pqo :   t srt         26        32         37        26         10         28
Pap~Menan.~~                     p bpVY                28         21        19         ..        19         18
Pa~~,dlsmeadiuggvads4  ~~qbdom                     -                                                  8.0S "7.
"fa'"        i          -         ..      431        16.7      433 23
sa* idmsmOra)                               5.2       19.0      S5         32
N.w      wlu                          pwmpop                                    u _  88  81.2      204        79.3
_m  W_ _ m           i8m atqU



- 42 -
TABLE 1                             ANNEX I(e)
-------                       Pogo I of 2
OGYANA: TOTAL FINANCING REqUIREMENTS
------------------------------------
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
1989         1990       1991      1992       1990-92
Trade b.lance                      -27.2         -94.9      -61.1     -65.4        -201.4
Net services and tronsfer,
(excluding ;nterest)              -2.6        -18.6      -12.8        1.0         -30.3
Increase In gross international
reserves                          -4.8         -9.1       -14.3     -10.0         -33.4
Leads and logs                       0,0           1.3       -e.1      -1.8          -e.8
Subtotal                           -34.6        -121.2      -84.3     -88.2        -271.7
Current debt service
payments 1/                      -42.3        -78.8      -102.9    -101.0        -282.6
iU-F                                -8.1        -10.2       -11.5      -8.6         -30.3
World Oank                          -2.0          -e.8      -11.3     -11.2         -29.3
Coo                                 -0.1          -3.2       -6.0      -6.1         -13.3
Others (except rescheduled
debt and new debt)             -33.1        -3a.6       -48.8    -47.8         -132.9
Rescheduled Debt and Debt
Subject to Reschedulhng         -1.0        -19.1       -22.9    -23.3          -e5.3
New debt                             0.0          -2.8       -3.4      -6.2         -11.4
Arrears to the IFI* (June 1989)      0.0       -229.4         0.0       0.0        -229.4
IMF                                  0.0       -141.9         0.0       0.0        -141.9
World Bank                           0.0         -57.0        0.0       0.0         -57.0
CDB                                  0.0         -30.5        0.0       0.0         -30.6
Total Financns Cop 2/             -70.8       -429.2    -187.2   -167.2           -783.8
1/ Net of eaounts rescheduled or subject to rescheduling.
2/ Net of rescheduling.



- 43 -
TABLE 2                                 ANNEX I(*)
-------                                 Page 2 of 2
OUYANA: IDENTIFIED FINANCING SOURCES
----------------------------__--_---
(In millions of US dollars)
1989         1990       1991       1992       1990-92
Total Financing Requirement          78.9        429.2      187.2      187.2         783.6
(Reschedulings)                   (783.0)       (462.0)    (21.0)      (19.0)       (492.2)
Project financing                    80.2        108.6       92.2      104.5         303.3
Trede Credits A Others              -10.3         -1.6        0.0        0.0          -1.6
Required SOP Suppport                26.9        324.2       96.0       82.7         481.9
Financing from the IFIs 1/            0.0        222.0       68.1       36.6         326.8
IMF 2/                                0.0        117.5       32.1       23.0         172.6
World Bonk 3/                         0.0         8 .0       13.0        0.0          79.0
CDB                                   0.0         83.5        8.0        2.5          42.0
IDS                                   0.0          6.0       17.0       10.0          32.0
Identif;ed bilaterel sources         2e.9         73.9       18.6       16.0         100.4
Other Sources of Finance              0.0         28.3        10.4      11.2          49.9
Sale of Public Enterprises            0.0         20.0        0.0        0.0          20.0
VIF Deposits                            0          8.3       10.4       11.2          29.9
Financing Cap                         0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0           0.0
1/ Bridge financing of US S229.4 million would be required to clear arrears
of the IFl. as of end June 190. A portion of the bridga equivalent
to US 3178 million would be repaid from the IFI disbursements
July-Sept. 1990. The residual portion of the bridge will be funded fron
bilateral commitments.
2/ Equivalent to 266 percent of quote, with a mix of ESAf and general resources
over the three-year period, with disbursements starting from 1990.
3/ The disbursement in 1990 assumes the total of first and second tranche
releases of USSO6 million end US31S million respectivoly. It also includes
US11 million of retroactive disbursement from IDA project loans as SOP
financing.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF SANK RMUP  oTZW  IN m YANA
A. SttAment of Sank Laos and IDA Credits a of March U1, 199
--US$ MI IIlon----
Amount
Loan/Cr.   FTesol                                                             (Lose Cancel lotion)
NUmbe        Tear   Berer                   Pwrpoe                           Sank   IDA   Undieburued
12 loense edI  redit. h o, been fully disbrsed                               76.2    27.1
of  hbleh SECAL., SAL. en  Proga  Loans *J
:O9,-QUA        i    "ays         Structvral AdJustmet                                 *.0
1941-GUA       It   guyas         Strutural AdJustmet                        14.0
Subtota1              14.0     0.9
120-QUA       62     yan           petroleum Exploratlon promotion                     2.0      1.1
16565-UA      65   Guran,         Upp  Do_rara Forestry
(Supplumental Credit)                               8.8      J.?
1729-UA  bl  S7   Ouyana          Bovatta In try Tech. Assist.                        7.0      8.5
Total (Net of Cancllettoa)                     76.2    44.8
of whih hbo  bew  repaid                       14.2       1.2
Total Held by Sank end IDA  c/                 62.9    48.6
Amount Sold                            0.8
of which bs bm repaid                  0.S
Totl Undiebured   d/                                             18.8
*/ Aprwed during or  fer FY91.
hi Cedit he not yetbe  s*1_e.
c/1 See   a          Curret Vale 32.45;  A Current Volvo 547.B-
diffeece dws to fletea In SO Sechale rote. Ceorted
strats pevaIlin  at match 81. 10991  .
d/ CArren Volvo cooverted at SPoUSeVch e r                   n at March 8S1 19.
S. Stdoemt of dK   tmente s of Mar" 81, low
Total
Invost.uat F*scl                               Typ of                                      Hold by      Total
number      yeer    Se"V~                      helmes           EqIty  Leo    TOtal          IFC    Undiebured
- ~~ ~~     ~~                                        ~~ ~ ~~~~~~ -  -   -  -_--
_           _        _                         _                _       _        _          _-



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
GUYAIA:  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTME   CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) The Government has with the assistance of Bank and IMF staff
prepared a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which outlines the
Government's proposed measures for addressing economic problems
over the medium term. The Guyana PFP was reviewed by the
Committee of the Whole of the Bank and by the IMF Board in July
1988 Since July 1988, the Bank, through its leadership in the
Consu.tative Group for Caribbean Economic Development (CGCED), has
been engaged in mobilizing the necessary financial resources to
support Guyana's proposed medium-term adjustment program. These
efforts have been augmented through the Support Group for Guyana,
chaired by Canada. formed in late November 1988.
(b)  Preappraisal mission                  November 1988
(c)  Appraisal mission                    May 1989
(d)  Post-Appraisal mission               April 1990
(e)  Completion of negotiations            May 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness         July 1990
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Government's wide-ranging efforts at structural adjustment
have stretched the implementation capacity of an already weak institutional
structure. The steady outmigration of professional, technical and
managerial personnel has aggravated the situation. To ensure timely
implementation of the credit conditions, IDA will provide technical support
under a parallel Technical Assistance Credit (TAC).
Section III - Special Conditions
Effectiveness of the credit, which will permit use of the first
tranche of US$50.0 millicn equivalent. is sub;-^7t to no special coniditions
over and above the several policy measure's that were adopted prior to Board
presentation. Release of the second and third tranches of USS15.0 million
and US$13 million respectively would be contingent upon significant and
satisfactory progress made by the Government in implementing the structural
adjustment program, notably in complying with the following specific
conditions for each tranche release.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Conditions for Release of Second Tranche
Macroeconomic Framework
Favorable Bank assessment of the macroeconomic framework, including
international competitiveness.
Domestic Pricing
(a) Implementation of pricing policies in rice, sugar, electricity,
petroleum and public transportation as per formulas agreed with
IDA; and
(b) Complete the preparation of a least cost expansion program for
electricity supply for 1990-99.
Trade Policy
(a) Import licenses will be issued automatically by the Ministry of
Trade for all transactions within two working days for all
applications not requiring government foreign exchange and import
licenses will be processed within seven working days for
applications requiring foreign exchange from the Bank of Guyana
(excluding those in the prohibited list):
(b) One-half of the items from the prohibited list except for non-
processed meat, poultry, fruit and fruit preservatives will have
been removed.
Central Government
(a)  Conmission management audits of the civil service based on the
findings of the public service review, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA.
Current Transfers
(a) End all central government transfers to public enterprises from
the 1990 budget onwards except for the Guyana Electricity
Corporation and for maintenance expenditures of public enterprises
to be fully divested.
Public Enterprises
(a) PCS: Put into effect an action program and schedule for carrying
out the corporate strategy for the PCS group: and
(b) Operating procedures and auditing systems satisfactory to IDA to
be established to monitor the financial performance of GUYHINE,
GUYSUCO and PCS, and transfer of targeted amounts to these
enterprises to the Central Government.
PSI?
(a) Review of rolling PSIP satisfactory to IDA: and



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(b) Implementation of institutional arrangements satisfactory to IDA,
for strengthening the capacity of the State Planning Secretariat
by filling all vacancies for planners in the Project Cycle Unit to
provide guidelines on project preparation to line ministries and
government agencies and to evaluate and monitor projects included
in the PSIP.
Conditions for Release of Third Tranche
Macroeconomic Framework
Favorable Bank assessment of the macroeconomic framework, including
international competitiveness.
Domestic Pricing
(a) Complete study and initiate an IDA-agreed action program for
improving private sector rice exports;
(b) Prepare an electricity tariff schedule for all categories of
services with rates equal to at least the long-run marginal costs
on the basis of an externally financed least-cost expansion
program and a schedule for implementation satisfactory to IDA; and
(c) Cemplete and review with IDA the Master Plan to rehabilitate the
Georgetown Water Supply system.
Trade Policy
(a) Remaining items to be removed from the prohibited list of imports
will have been removed except for non-processed meat, poultry,
fruit and processed fruit items; and
(b) Begin implementation of an IDA-agreed program to reduce import
duty exemptions, except those required by regional and other
international agreements or those intended to provide fiscal
incentives for new investments in the form of exemptions up to
five years renewable once for the same period thereafter.
Other Incentives
(a)  Completed a study on consumption taxes in accordance with torms nf
reference satisfactory to the Association, and adopted a program
satisfactory to IDA to address deficiencies in the application and
administration of consumption taxes identified in such study.
Central Government
(a) Begin implementing a program satisfactory to IDA. to eliminate any
overlapping functions and noncritical vacancies identified in the
management audits.
PSIP
(a)  Review of rolling PSIP satisfactory to IDA.



ANNEX IV
-48 -                         Page   of I
G ANA - sMRUCTMRA AD          CDIT
CVERAGE 0  TP AND ANK PROGRAMS
Macroeconomic stabilization   -       w would take the lead through exchange
vate, fiscal, monetary and wage policy
reforms.
A would mske an assessmet of
sacroeconomi policies taking Into
account the findings of the IMF.
Restoration of Incentives          DA$ proposed SAC Includes domestie
and strengthening of              pricing, trade policy (Import licensing,
competition to promote            QRs, tariffs and export pricing) and
economic growth                   procedural reforms designed to complement
the producer Incentives generated by an
appropriato exchange rate regime. The
GovernmentlIff program also Includes some
components of trade policy (import
licensing and review of QRs).
M  program includes the passthrough of
price Increases following the
devaluation.
IDAI' main concern, however, vould be to
ensure that domestie pricing provides
adequate p:oducer incentives needed for
mdium-term growth.
Reduction of public sector   -   Ms fiscal policy reformu under the
defilcit                          program will be complemented by the
proposed SAC through conditionality on
central goverent employmet,
el4taiation of current transfere to
publc enterprise and rscource
=obilisation and divetment targets for
public enterprises.
Rehabilitation of *conomlc    -  ]JI the public sector investment program
infreatructure                    (PSIP) to be agreed under the proposed
SAC  il m*ign high priority to
investmeats needed to ehabilitate
economic lafratucture. The PSIP will
also include a few projects to
rehabilitate social nrastructure.
Institutional strten ening Za  -      ' proposed TAC will help strengthen
the cetral  inistrie  and department
thrsouh advisors   d training and thereby
mssist in the iuplinemtatiso of tbh SAC
ad  F'. progrn.
Alleviation of the socil    -   a's proposed operatio  In the  ocial
Impact                            sectors wll help addres the soeil cost
of adjustment.



miNisrYr oF FiNA4Nc. ANNiEx v
34 UIPILVP4Vt)*ATh                                      P.O. Box ?$7.   Piage 1 of 6
,.r ItUSUI'    o                                            a ...... *  Uquhr Sreeft.
- 49 -
June 4, 1990
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable:
GUYANA: Government Policy Statement on Structural Adjustment
1.       The Government of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana requests
from the International Development Association (IDA) a Structural
Adjustment Credit (credit) to support its economic recovery programme over
the medium term.
2.       The main objectives of the Government's programme are to:  restore
economic growth over the medium term; eliminate internal and external
imbalances; incorporate the parallel economy into the official economy; and
normalize Guyana's financial relations with external creditors. The
attainment of these objectives will require the restoration of incentives
through a realistic exchange rate regime, removal of price distortions,
sequential trade liberalization, promotion of private sector development,
and improvement of the public sector finances through streamlining the
civil service, increased generation of surpluses from public enterprises
and the implementation of a divestment programme. In addition,
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure will be critical for supporting
increased exports and private investment. Thus, the financing and
implementation of a public sector investment programme (PSIP) consistent
with the macroeconomic framework will be essential. The implementation of
a Social Impact Ahmelioration Programme is desirable in order to protect
groups that are particularly vulnerable to the adjustment measures and in
order to maintain public support for the economic recovery programme.
Recent Economic Develogments
3.       As you may be aware, Guyana's economy is based mainly on the
production and exports of bauxite, sugar and rice. Extensive mineral and
timber resources remain unexploited partly because of underdeveloped
infrastructure. Given the country's topography and the uneven distribution
of its relatively small population, the cost of meeting Guyana's
infrastructural needs are substantial on a per capita basis. Furthermore,
economic activity has been constrained by a difficult physical environment,
sharp fluctuations in output stemwing from the vulnerability of the economy
to exogenous factors, and weak economic management.



- 50 -                             ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6
4.       Economic performance during the 1970s was mixed.  During the first
half of the.decade, GDP grew by about 42 per annum in real terms as a
result of the rapid growth in Government expenditures and favorable prices
for Guyana's major export commodities. Per capita income increased by
about 62 per annum, resulting from a rapid expansion in consumption and
investment and the period was characterized by a rapid expansion of the
public sector, made possible by the windfall gains associated with sugar
production. This was followed by economic decline as a result of the fall
in sugar prices, the weakening in the demand for Guyana's main exports, and
reduced output notably in the case of sugar and bauxite during the period
1975-80 . As a result. the terms of trade fell by over 30S during 1975-80,
wiping out the gains achieved i. the first half of the decade.
5.       Guyana's real gross domestic product decreased at an average
annual rate of 6Z during 1981-83. Following a turnaround in 1984, however.
economic growth averaged about 12 per year in 1984-87, but was not
sufficient to offset the decreases in preceding years. The level of
recorded output in 1987 was thus some 15Z below that of 1980. Throughout
most of the period 1981-87, Guyana's principal productive sectors which had
hitherto accounted for about one third of GDP, and 801 of merchandise
exports, encountered a number of technical, organizational and financial
problems and in the case of sugar and rice, adverse weather conditions.
Reduced foreign exchange earnings cut into the country's capacity to
acquire imported inputs and led to considerable capacity under-utilization,
raising unit costs of production and further reducing financial
profitability of various operations.
6.       Despite the modest upturn in production during 1984-87, the period
was marked by a low level of aggregate resource availability, an increasing
divergence between the investment and savings rates especially of the
public sector and, correspondingly, an increasing dependence on foreign
borrowing. The public sector finances deteriorated markedly during
1981-86, although a reversal of this trend occurred in 1987.
7.       Guyana's external trade and payments situation remained extremely
weak during 1981-8.. As a result, the balance of payments deteriorated and
Guyana was unable to meet its external payments obligations. In 1988, the
economy witnessed a further setback, with real GDP declining by about 32.
As of December 1988, Guyana's total external debt stood at about US$1.8
billion, equivalent to 6702 of exports.
The Government's Response
8.       During 1984-88. the Government took a number of measures relating
to the exchange rate regime and the public sector operations aimed at
increasing output and exports and reducing imbalances. Although these
measures were in the right direction, they did not produce the desired
results given the severity of the country's economic problems. Guyana's
export volume remains below the levels of the mid-1970s while imports
continue to be compressed. In addition, the capital stock of the economy
continues to deteriorate and the state of disrepair of physical
infrastructure has resulted in serious bottlenecks which impair increases
in production. The period has also witnessed a decline in the standard of
living which has led to an exodus of managerial, professional and technical



ANNEX V
-~                           Page 3 of 6
personnel a,nd thus to a shortage of skills at all levels. Meanwhile, major
weaknesses continue to exist in the public sector and need to be addressed.
9.       In mid-1988, the Government, with the absistance of the World Bank
and IMF staff, prepared a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which outlined the
Government's proposals for addressing the problems of the economy over the
medium term. In early August 1988, price controls were removed from a
number of items except for petroleum products, public transportation, rice,
sugar and a few other essential commodities. Import prohibitions were also
removed on all items ezcept for food products, on grounds of the national
objective of food security through self-sufficiency. In addition, the
licensing of 'no funds, imports, i.e., those not involving the use of
official foreign exchange, was liberalized beginning September 1, 1988. In
the fiscal area, some measures to raise tax revenues were implemented;
Guyana Timbers Limited was sold in early 1989, and actions were taken to
close down one loss-making public enterprise. In July 1988, the Government
issued a document setting out the incentives available to the private
sector and in August 1988, Guyana joined MIGA. On the sectoral front, the
Government has taken a number of steps to improve the bauxite industry,
including securing a European Development Fund Loan to rehabilitate the
industry, and discussions with Reynolds International of United States of
America and ALCAN of Canada about possible joint ventures. In February
1989, Reynolds International signed an agreement with the Government to
commence mining, marketing and sales of bauxite. Discussions are also
underway with Booker Tate of United Kingdom to obtain management assistance
for the sugar industry while the operation of Guyana's international
airport has been contracted with British Airport Services Group. Also,
discussions are in progress with a US company on the sale of 83? of the
Government's equity in the Guyana Telecommunications Corporation.
The Stabilization Program
10.      The essential components of the Government's stabilization program
include further reforms in exchange rate regime as well as in fiscal,
monetary and income policies. Following a significant devaluation of March
31, 1989 (2301 in G$ terms), the prices of controlled items were adjusted
in order to pass through the effects of the devaluation. The program
initially called for the implementation of a flexible exchange rate policy
to help ensure external competitiveness and protect the balance of
payments. However, considering the difficult industrial relations
conditions that resulted from the 1989 devaluation, and the less than
expected flow of external resources, the Government decided not to adjust
further the official exchange rate despite the prevalence of a large margin
relative to the parallel rate (50?). Instead, the Government enacted the
Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act of 1989 which legalized a large
volume of transactions in the parallel market. At the same time, the
Government moved a number of items to the newly legalized market.  As of
April 1990, 15 Exchange Houses (or cambios) were in operation. The
Government intends to move more items to the cambio market and to unify the
exchange rate system, in stages, by March 31, 1991. To guarantee exporters
a minimum of foreign exchange for importation requirements, the Bank of
Guyana had established foreign exchange retention schemes that allow
selected exporters to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds.
However, with the eventual unification of the official exchange rate
system and the liberalization of exchange restrictions, the retention



-52-                               ANNEX V
Page 4 of 6
schemes will be abolished. Thereafter, foreign exchange for all payments
will be provided on the basis of availability.
11.      The Government will undertake fiscal policies aSmed at reducing
the overall public sector deficit, consistent with a sust.inable balance of
payments position and increased public sector savings over the medium term.
Measures to increase revenues include the improvement of tax administration
and a broadening of the tax base, addressing deficiencies in the
application and administration of consumption taxes. and reducing tax
exemptions. The objective is to enhance revenue, minimize disincentives,
improve resource allocation and incorporate the parallel economy into the
official economy. Measures to reduce expenditures will include: the close
monitoring by sector of recurrent funding requirements on supplies and
materials to seek further savings; the termination of transfers to public
corporations, except to the Guyana Electricity Corporation; the restraining
of increases in public sector wages and salaries; and the strengthening of
budgeting, monitoring and fiscal reporting procedures.
12.      The prime interest rate was increased from 152 to 352, but was
reduced to 302 as of April. 1990. It will be maintained at a positive real
level, taking into account the expected domestic inflation and interest
rates in the international market. The Government will abstain from from
establishing selective credit policies.
13.      To protect external competitiveness and help reduce inflation a
restrained wage policy will be implemented. The increase in nominal wages
would not exceed the domestic inflation rate in 1990-91. Merit increases
will be based on productivity increases and the overall financial
situation of each public sector enterprise. Wages in the private sector,
with the exception of that of some non-unionized workers, would continue to
be freely determined.
The Structural Adiustment Programme
14.      The structural adjustment programme aims to improve the incentive
framework for private sector development, reducing the public sector
deficits and implementing a realistic and viable public sector investment
progra-e (PSIP), all of which are designed to improve the supply side
conditions needed for sustainable economic growth.
15.      The reforms to restore an adequate incentive framework include
domestic pricing, trade policy and improved fiscal incentive procedures.
All prices except for those relating to rice, sugar, electricity, petroleum
and public transportation will be maintained free of controls during and
beyond the programme period. New pricing mechanisms will be implemented
according to the following criteria: the domestic prices of rice will
reflect the international prices at the recently legalized market exchange
rate; the domestic price of sugar will be set to cover the c.i.f. and other
aquisition costs of imported sugar; information from the ongoing study to
formulate a least-cost expansion programme will be used to develop rates
for the sale of electricity equal to at least the long-run marginal cost
and will be put into effect in the context of the implementation of the
power sector expansion programme; petroleum product prices will be set to
cover all foreign and local costs; and public transportation fares will be
set to cover all operating costs including depreciation.



-53-                                ANNEX V
Page 5 of 6
16.      With respect to trade policy. import licenses will be issued
within two working days for all applications not requiring government
foreign exchange; and processed within seven days for all applications
requiring foreign exchange from the Bank of Guyana (excluding items in the
prohibited list). The list of prohibited imports will be reviewed with a
view to progressively reducing the list and eliminating all such prohibited
items by September 1991, except for non-processed meat, poultry, fruit and
processed fruit items. The Government has also decided to eliminate import
duty exemptions. except those required by regional and other international
agreements or those intended to provide fiscal incentives for new
investments in the form of exemptions up to five years renewable once for
the same period thereafter. As regards other incentives, the Government
has decided to study the existing consumption tax structure and to adopt a
program to address deficiencies in the application and administration of
consumption taxes identified in such study, subject to the revenue
requirements to meet the Central Government's current balance targets.
17.      In order to support private investment, procedures have been
streamlined to reduce the average processing time from 10 weeks to 5 weeks
for consideration and decisions on fiscal incentives for new projects.
18.      A reduction in the Central Government non-interest current
expenditure in real terms will be achieved through further streamlining,
following the implementation of the recommendations of the public service
review, currently under way.
19.      As regards the Central Government budget, from 1990 and onwards,
no transfers to the public enterprises (PEs) will be made, with the
possible exceptions of the Guyana Electricity Corporation. and maintenance
expenditures for those enterprises to be divested. In addition, no new PEs
will be established during 1990-92 except for those resulting from the
rationalization process as defined in the strategy statements of GUYSUCO
and the PCS group of enterprises and/or joint ventures of private or
foreigr. firms with existing PEs. Nonviable public corporations will
cortinue to be closed or divested. Operating procedures and auditing
systems to monitor the financial performance of the PEs are being
instituted. The payment of taxes, dividends and transfers from PEs to the
Central Government will be enforced. In general, the above mentioned
actior.s will be aimed at improving the primary current account balance
(before interest payments) of the non-financial public sector from 18? of
GDP ir. 1969 to 222 of GDP in 1990 and to about 30: of GDP in 1991.
However, the overall public sector deficit will increase from 46Z of GDP irn
1969 to about 542 of GDP in 1990, owing to increased interest payments,
increased capital expenditure and the impact of the devaluation upon the
foreign component of the PSIP, but will be reduced to 412 of GDP in 1991.
20.      A corporate strategy has been developed for the enterprises under
the Public Corporations Secretariat with a view to determining which
enterprises will be kept within the Govermnent's control and which should
be offered for joint ventures or for outright sale to the private sector.
An action program and an implementation schedule have been established and
will be carried out. In the case of the Guyana Sugar Corporation
(GUYSUCO), the Government and Booker PLC of United Kingdom plan to develop
during 1990 a detailed agreement which will: (a) make arrangements for
Booker Tate to provide management services and technical-assistance to



- 54                                ANNEX V
Page 6 of 6
GUYSUCO; and (b) make possible a range of investments through equity and
loans, including the conversion into equity of the Government's debt to
Booker. In regard to GUYSUCO's non-sugar activities, separate accounting
and management vill be implemented and joint ventures will be sought.
21.      The size and composition of the PSIP for 1990-92 vill be reviewed
periodically to ensure its consistency with the stated objectives of the
program, projected domestic and foreign resources availability and
implementation capacity. Special attention will be given to the adequate
costing of projects to project disbursements and to the economic and social
criteria for the inclusion of new projects. The State Planning Secretariat
will be adequately staffed to provide guidelines for project preparation to
the line ministries and government agencies and for evaluation and
monitoring of projects. Additionally, the management of external aid will
be strengthened through the services of an advisor at the Office of Budget
in the Ministry of Finance to facilitate procurement and disbursement of
funds provided by bilateral and multilateral donors.
The Social Impact of Adiustment
22.      Donor assistance for the Social Impact Amelioration Programme
(SIY&P) has, so far, remained well below the levels of support indicated at
the Special Donors Meeting of July 1989. The Government remains convinced
of the need for urgent assistance in cushioning the most vulnerable groups
from the adverse consequences of the adjustment and proposes to explore the
possibility of assistance from. a wider range of potential donors. In this
regard, it has strengthened its internal arrangements. A SIMAP
Coordinating Committee has beer. established.  This Co=ittee is   chaired
by the Ministry of Culture and Social Development (MCSD) and includes
representation from the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Secretariat. The Committee and the related agencies are promoting local
co=u.nity and N5O participation in the design and implementation of
suitable projects. In addition. the MCSD has been staffed to support the
implementation of progra=es.
23.      In view of the measures being taken, the Government of the Co-
operative Republic of Guyar.a voQuLd appreciate your favorable consideration
of its request for the provision of a Structural Adjustment Credit. we
thank you for your efforts through the Consultative Group for Cooperation
ir. conomic Development and thrcugh participation in the Guyana Support
Group to raise the externil financing required to support the Government's
e:onor.ic recovery prograrme.  We look forward to a continuing exchange of
ideas with IDA. and the World Ba.nk and to the opportunity to discuss or a
continuous basis the progress made in implementing the above reforms.
Yours f incerely,
rl B. Gre  idge.  .P.
/ Minister of Finance.



- 55 -
AMNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
CUTANM STRUCTURAL ADJUSTfENT CREDIT
THE SOCIAL IMPACT AMELIORATION PROJECTS
1.       XSIAP projects are deaign.d ini'1ally as short-tern Interventions
of 6 to 24 months, with a fundaig ceiling of US$10 million. 8owever, If
funds are available, *ome projects vould be extended, particularly those
that develop humn resources (nutrition, health and training) and
facilitate increased household Incomes.
2.       To solicit projects, the SWMAP Coordinating Committee (SCC)
distributed preparation guidelines to central Ministries, agencies, Towns
and Regions. Hundreds of project proposals wre received and reviewed by
the SCC. Those selected balance proposals needs and geographical
distribution over the five Towns and ten Regions including the hinterland
areas inhabited by native Ahmrindians. Community and NGO participation in
project generation and Implementation is being promoted. Vnless otherwise
noted, projects will be managed by central, regional and local goverments.
Some government projects will be contracted to private firms, especially
infrastructure rehabilitation and construction.
3.       Labor lntensive employment schemes In Infrastructure
rehabilitation and development constitute 68S of total program costs. Work
will be mainly manual, using spades, picka xe. shovels and hired tractors
sad trailers to restore and xtend neglected social and physical
infrastructure.  Several mployment projects aim to improve snitation and
the environment. Other projects would develop ait to Improve sanitation
and the enviromaent. Other projects would develop human capital through
nutrition (16S of total project costs), training (142) and bealth (1?). The
status of project readiness variel some could begin Implementation
Immediately, while others could withit  a few moths.
4.



- 56 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
GUYANA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUMMARY OF TEC8NICAL ASSISTANCE
1.       This Annex summarizes the technical assistance to be provided
under a separate Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) to assist the Government
in:
(i)   implementing the adjustment measures under the proposed SAC;
and
(ii) implementing a social impact amelioration program (SIMAP) to
cushion the social cost of adjustment.
2.       Project Objectives.  The TAC will ensure that government
policymakers have the knowledge and expertise required to attain SAC
objectives: (i) improvements in the incentive framework, (ii) public
sector reform, (iii) improved public sector investment, (iv) amelioration
of the social impacts of adjustment, and (v) improved macroeconomic
management.  The TAC will strengthen the public sector agencies responsible
for implementing the SAC by providing special studies and highly-skilled
professionals; equipment including vehicles and training will also be
provided to ensure that agencies develop improved management and analytic
capacity to ensure a smooth transition at the project's end.
3.       Project Description.  The project will support the Statistical
Bureau and several offices in the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of
Culture and Social Development (MCSD), State Planning Secretariat (SPS),
Public Corporations Secretariat (PCS). The Monitoring and Coordinating
Unit (MCA) in the Ministry of Finance has the responsibility for
coordinating, advising and overseeing the provision of project-funded
assistance to other government offices critical for the attainment of SAC
policy conditions.
4.       The project will provide technical assistance in the form of
short-term and long-term consultants to work with local staff, equipment,
vehicles, special studies, and training. Technical assistance will be
provided to improve the incentive framework through the funding of special
studies on consumpLion takes. Public sector reform will be supported by
improving financial monitoring and divestment activities of the State
Planning Secretariat and the Public Corporations Secretariat. The Public
Sector Investment Program will be strengthened by improving the evaluation
and planning capacity of the Project Cycle Unit in the SPS, responsible for
formulating the PSIP. In addition, the TAC will improve the expeditious
use of external aid through assistance to the Division of Multilateral
Financial Institutions in the MOF, responsible for aid coordination, the
Bank of Guyana, and the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Implementation of
the emergency SIMAP program will be assisted by helping the Ministry of
Culture and Social Development and SPS to improve target efficiency of
SIMAP programs. Almost all technical assistance provided under the TAC
will contribute to macroeconomic management.  In addition to the assistance
listed above, the project will improve the overall coordination of
macreconomic policy advice provided by the MCA and improve macroeconomic
information provided by the Statistical Bureau.



- 57 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
5.       The Policy Framework Paper agreed by the Government of Guyana, the
IMF, and the Bank stipulated the adoption of a number of adjustment
measures prior to Board presentation of the SAC. Implementation of these
measures requires technical assistance for improvement in public sector
management capacity. To provide this technical assistance prior to TAC
effectiveness, the UNDP has agreed to a bridging operation in which it
fills several high level consulting positions, anticipated under the TAC,
using terms of reference agreed to by the Government ani the Bank. The TAC
will fund those positions retroactively.
6.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$3.1
million, of which US$3.0 million will be provided under the IDA credit.
The terms of reference (TOR) for the consultants were agreed during
negotiations and are available in the Project File. The consultants will
be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracting of the
consultants will be handled by the MCA on behalf of the Government.
Long-term Consultant Positions to be Provided by the Technical Assistance
Credit in Support of the Structural Adiustment Credit
7.       Macroeconomic advisor to the head of the Monitoring and
Coordinating Unit (MCA) located in the Ministry of Finance. This advisor
will have overall responsibility for assessing macroeconomic trends in the
economy, improving coordination of macroeconomic information and providing
analyses and policy advice to the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the
advisor will collaborate with other government agencies to ensure
implementation of the Government's Economic Recovery Program.
8.       Advisor to the State Planning Secretariat on formulation and
monitoring of the Public Sector Investment Program to ensure consistency in
terms of size and composition to the Borrower's macroeconomic framework,
objectives and funding.
9.       Advisor to the State Planning Secretariat on financial and
operational monitoring of public enterprises and monitoring corporate
development strategy of the independent public enterprises.
10.      Advisor to the Public Corporation Secretariat on corporate
development strategy, including divestment, and financial monitoring of the
enterprises under the PCS.
11.      Advisor to the Project Cycle Unit of the SPS to strengthen its
capacity to do economic evaluation and cost analysis of proposed investment
projects.
12.      Advisor to the Ministry of Finance, Bank of Guyana and the
Ministry of Trade and Tourism on coordination of multilateral and bilateral
external finance and disbursement, to be located in the Division of
Multilateral Financial Institutions under the Office of the Budget. This
individual will have responsibility for facilitating procurement and
disbursement of lines of credit provided by bilateral and multilateral
donors for project finance and balance of payments support.



- 58 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
Short-Term Consultant position to be provided by the Technical Assistance
Credit in Support of the Structural Adjustment Credit
A. Incentive Framework
13.      Analysis of the consumption tax structure to identify deficiencies
in its application and administration and develop recommendations to
address such deficiencies.
B. Macroeconomic Management
14.      Provision of a procurement agent to ensure compliance with Bank
Group guidelines and preparation of needed documentation for draw down of
the SAC.
C. Social Sector Program
15.      Assist the State Planning Secretariat and the Ministry of Culture
and Social Development in analyzing the distribution effects of the
Economic Recovery Program and the target efficiency of SIMAP and other
social programs in ameliorating the effects and make recommendations for
measures to improve target efficiency.



nWANA - SUU nAL AD.ST            EIt
PLZCT MAIWIR
Actions Token by the         Actions Taken Prior to         Actions to be Taken Prior    Action* to be Taren Prior
POIIXe APa            Governmet s*aO end 1989          Board Presentation           to Second Tranche Rl-ese    to Third Trench. Release
bacrtecone ie Frameork
Gu;a$ continua  to fac      to Aprl 19, Guyana began    Favorablo Bank oau ament   Favorablo Bonk *aaessment    Favorable Bank assessmt of
ajor macroeconomic         lmpleaetlog ork IUF-            of the acroecoonamc         of the macroeconomic          the *acroeconomic fre erk,
I.sISoncen. The  stema    monitor"d proram which          frameork, Including          frameork, including            including internattonal
largely from an             Included a major d.valuatien   International               International                 catitttene.
inappropriato *ix of        (28OM  Ito C  term), price    competitlvenae.              c_e ttI veneae.
*xchang  ratO fiscal,       pase through, Interet rate
monetary and  age           adjustments, public
poeliies.                   expenditure controle fnd
ang  retrint.  Logllation
*as s1eo eoncted In late
1989 to legalise a large
volum of ranesactlons in
the parallel markot throuh
exchang  hou se or ermblos.
Inentilve Fra_e  ri.        In *orly August 10gW, price    Damatic Pricing             Domestlc Prieing              Domestie Pricing
controls mor remeved from a
The lnentlve framerk        n ber of Items, exe pt for   (a) Agreemnt to put Into   (a) Ipl_amntatlon of              (a) Complete study and
has been eroded by the      petrolow produect,            effect pricino policles on   pricing policies In rice,      initiate an tDA-ogreed action
failure to correct nn tronspertaton, Pice, su*r  rlce which will rflect                 sugpr, electricity,           program for Improving privet.
evervaloed  xchang  rat.,    "d a fet  Other e    sntl     the International prie  of   petroleou  ntd  public       sector rice exports.
price distortloen  and the  lte.  Iport prohibitons    equivalent grodes of rice    tansportatlon as par
leck of   Cloee pole for   *ere els  removwd on  ll       calcuated ot an exchneo    formulee agreed wIth IDA;
the privat*e .ctt.          Item except for food           rate acceptable to the
producto, on groonds of the   Asociatliol
national objective of tood     (b) Agreoment to set tho
*scurity thrh    slf-         domestic wholesale price
uff ic iey Us greed In the   of sugr to Cover th
PFP. to addition, ad In        c.l.f. Ceorgteton end
eoeplince with the PFP, te   other aequisition coat* of
licenOlsg of 'no tnde         imported *ugar Including
import., i.e., thos  not      handllng, transportutIon,
involving the us of           and storae cost.;
official toreign  exchaoge,
was liboerlized beginnng
September Is 198, s es to
ollow private Individuals to
Import wIthout ficense,
Item  for their own use.                                                                                              o 
Also, In July 1W8, the
Gover_ment toued a document                                                                                          a'
settitg out the incentives
avalable to the private
sector.



nWAI - SncMAL    M   MED
leActions Takn by the         Actlon  Takeo Prior to          Actioe to be Taken Prior    Actions to be Tolke Prior
_______Aro__ gc  ov mt as of end ISD                     Bard Prestation               to Second Tranehe Riles       to Third Tranche  Roleas
(c) Agreemet on settiln      (b) Coplete the                (b) Prpare on electrIcity
electrlcity tariffs to       prepration of a laot cost  tariff schedule for all
eover tbo fuIll coat of      expeasion program for           categories of serwices with
operations Including         electricity supply for          rates equl to St least the
depreciatlon. Agreement       I#Q99.                         long-run marginal cot
to be reached on                                            calculated on the bsis of an
devloping a 10-yeor least                                   externally financed least-
cost exponslon program                                      cost expansion progrm and a
thich will provid  the                                      scheduvl  for implementation
Inforation for setting of                                   satiefactory to bOA.
lectrietty terttUf  based                                    (c) Coepleto aNd review with
on long-run marginal                                         IDA the Master Plan to
coeta;                                                      rehabilitate the CGorgoeto
(d) Agrement on                                             Water Supply system.
developirn a plan to
rehabilitate the
oeorg town Water Supply
System; 
(e) Agreement on petroleum
product priese (except
toron) to rices r c.I.f.
price and local
acqusitlon coSt
incleding depreciation;
(f) Agrement on peblic
trasoportation prices to
cover operating costs,
lncleding depreciation.
Trade Policy                         Trade Policy                  Trade PolICY
(s) Agre that the            (a) IMport license  *ill be   (a) R _emaing itee to be
remaining iteme on the        Issued automatically by the  r*emved froo the probibited
prohlbited list will be      Mlnistry of Trade for all    lItt of Imports wI l have
rmoved, with the             transatlon  within two         been removed except for nom-
e*ceptlon of non-proe ssd   oorllng days for all            proceseeod meat, poultry
m"ot  poultry  fruit and      applicatlonr  not requiring    fruit end processed fruit
proceosed fruit iteo.        government foreign  xchan"g  items. R
and import license will be                               00
processod within seven
working days for 
pplications roquiring                                        C .4
toreign exchange fro the                                  mt 
Bank of Cuyana excluding                                  ct
thoso tn the prohibited
list;
(b) one-half of the lteme
froe tho prohibited list
except for non-processed
moat, poultry. fruit and
processed fruit items will
he. 6on removed.



@riAM - SUXItiALRM  ARArnWf OMIT
POLICY ",mix
Actions Trken by the          Actions Taksn Prior to          Actions to be Taken Prior    Actlons to be Takeo Prior
Policy Arose           Geveres_t as of  nd 1989          Board Presentation            to Socond Tranch. Releoe    to Third Tranche Release
(b) Begin lmplem_tation of
*n IDA agreed program to
educe import duty
exemptions, except thoso
roquired by regional and
other International
agroments or thos  Intended
to provide fiscal incentives
for nem Invstments in the
form of exemptions up to five
yoars renoewble once for the
saeo period thereftter.
Other Incentives
(a) Completed a study on
consumption taxos tn
accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the
Association, and adopted a
prograe satisfactory to IDA
to *ddress deficiencieo In
the applIcation and
administration of consumption
taxes Identified In such
study.
Pr-ejdural Reform
(a) The Oovermnnt will
streamllne procodures to
reduce the average
processing time for the
consideration and decision
on fissol Incentives for                                                                 E w
new projects from ten           -                                                        0tl
woeek  to five weeks by
lncreasing te frequency of
the Fiscol Incentives
Commlttee (FIC) meting
held at WYMIOA, And
shortening the time within
and betweon core steps
which Include: roview by
tho relovent sector
minietry; discussion of
the project at the FIC;



W~M -   mRCUA MJE   aKT
tucrt MIAJX
Actions yaks by tie         Actions Taken Prior to         Actions to be Taken Prior   Actions to be Taken Prler
Polle  Ae             Gov,       sont   of en    d6 ftrd Presentation               to Second Tranchs, R*lea*e    to Third Tranebe Release
n  tonral approval of
fiscal Incentives by tho
Minsatry of Finance. A
specific processlng
echedule would be agreed
Public Setor Reform                                        Central Government           Contral Governmt              Centrol Government
Goans, economic             to tie ftel area, gem          (a) A public sevICe          (a) Cciisselon.d eanegomnt  (a) Belgn implemeting a
problems, sle  stem         measures to raise taon         rev     (Pgt) will be       adits of tho civil service   progre  satisfactory to tie
largely fre  an ove-       rp" Immted to  undertake. with a vlew to    based on tim  finding, of                     Asocitation, to .Ittinate any
extended and Infflelet   198U, nctiuding tm Fiscal    identifying overloppln           the Pl. under toer  of         overlpping functions and
public sector repopelble   Enacteet (Amenoet) Bill    functions and ooncritical   refrence satisfactory to            noncritical vacnies"
for a ignifiteent           1053 Nd tie Consumption Tarn  vacacle  In tihe clivl       Ute Assoclation;               ldetiftied In Use monagtmat
doterlortion of publie    (Aendeet) Ordor 198              service (I.e., positiona                                   audita.
finsan . The publie         (para. 42 of PFP). Also,      Dot directly related to
sector Ceniol of the        actions have been take. to    output growth);
central government, tbo     close do    twe lossw-skino    (b) Agreenet on eding
Nftionol Insurance          public entrprisee  the         all Control Ioveret
service eN  abot St         Olose Factory bao bee         trnnfore to public
fbIle enterprises          closed dow  and the Publi     entorpriaw  from tie 1990
Together they employ a      Trneoportatior Corporation    budget onwards, oxceApt for
total of sbout 75,000       Is In tie process of being    tbo Guyana Electricity
prsonsnerly 40t ot          closd dow. Thesm  ctions,  Corporation and for
th       tie Central        In part, helpod tim GUASIAC   maIntenane ependitere
Government sa  thi          group of 27 pubile            of public entrprise  to      Current Transform
belamc  la public           entrprlee  (in tie are" of  be fully divested.              (a) end a11 central
enterprisesand fiel lel   agricultare, industry,                                       goveoim_nt current
intittions.  Timo          trei     trsortalo  ad                                      tra ers to public
Central Gov                 Mtilts) to ie          Its                                 enterpriet  from the 1990
deficit steod at M          overoll srplu  frm 1i of                                   budget onrds except for
unsustainablo level of      MOP In 10  to 4.65 of GOP                                  tie Guyana Electricity
27 of 0P In 16. This   ton 19.  On the sectoral                                       Corporatlon and for
Is largly attribtable      front, the Government ha                                    mintenran  expenditues of
to Interet paymets, tie  taken a n_Ir of st_e to                                       public enterprise  to be
slgish growth of           improve tie s,xite indtstry                                 fully divested.
revenues, owig to recen   Including tie securln  of a
daclim  In rel ecoomic  SISUIN Intervntion to
activlty, tie growt of      rehabilitate tie industry,
the paalll eoony           and dilon  with
(which Is outside thi      Reynold  (USA) ad ALCN                                                                                                 0
revenue collecting          (Cn ada) about poeible-4
*retm) and currant         Jint ventures.
tanfors to public
rpri.



GWA  - _INKOAL s n     S 1  CDIT
Action. Tokeo by the         Actions Token Prlor to          Action. to be Token Prlor    Actions to be Token Prior
Polge  Amreas           ove_rn_nt so oe nd 1999         Board Presentation            to Second Trnecho Release    to Third Trench* Role...
Public Enttorpriso           Pubilc Enterpriseos
The three traditional                                        (a) CUYSUCOs Agree on *      (a) PCSs  Pat Into e fect
sectors of the economy,                                     strategy stateant and         *n action program and
I -.  beunite  sugar and                                    timetoble for setting up      schdulo for carrying out
reie *re domInated by the                                   separate accounting and       the corporte strategy for
Guy  n  Ulnino Enterprie                                    managemt *nd attracting    the PCS group;
Limited (WUYRtE), and                                       private investmnt for         (b) Operating procedures
Cuyana Sugar Corpoertlon                                    *ognr production *nd for      and auditing *ystc4s
(GUYSUCO) and the Guyana                                    non-sugar ectivltloe  I.e.   satisfactory to IDA to be
Rlce Group (SO).                                             vice producteon, dairy       established to monitor the
Together they account for                                   development, squacultore      finoncial performance of
about 305 of GP *nd 8aX                                     and orchard development;      aUftI4E1 CUWSUCO, PCS, and
of total mereahndio                                         (b) PCS:  Agree on a          transfr. of targeted
experta. Their finaucial                                    corporate  trat gy for th      _unte frm thes
trueturo  remaIn                                            PCS roup *Ith a  ie to    enterprios  to the Control
extremel week, and thuo                                    determining which              overnment.
bh_pering theIr                                             ent rprie ehould b   ept
operational eff icl q.                                      within the Gov*rnment'o
control to moot atrat.gic/
social objoctives and
which should be offered
for jolnt vantur   or for
outright n 1- to the
private sector
oo 



UAI  - SIRUCIlAL ADJ$NT   ADIT
Action. Token by the          Actions Take. Prior to           Actions to be Taken Prior    Actlon. to bo Taken Prior
Polle Ars              Government as of end 1980         B6ord Presentation             toSecond Tranche Releaso    to Third Trench, Reloeas
Pub le Sc       ito   nvestment
Prosram (PSi1                                                PSIP                           PSIP                           PSIP
The long period of                                            (a) Agreemet on and           (a) Roview of rol ing PSIP    (a) Reviow of rolling PSIP
ecesmie decline an                                           reviow durlng 199092 of    sotisfactory to IDA;               satisfoatory to IDA.
conaequently Inadequte                                       the siUt, and conposition      (b) Implemontstion of
asset melntenance Ma                                         of the throe-year roliIng    Inotitutional arrangement.
resulted In poor                                             PSIP, to bring It In lino    satisfactory to IDA, for
condition In the                                             With projected domestie        strongthening the capacity
Intraatructur  servlce,.                                     and foreign reource            of the Stat. Planning
Thorefore, the major                                         ovl lability;                  Secretariat by filling *11
foetie of the PSIP s11i  be                                  (b) Agreoment on               vaconcies for plannote   In
the rehabilltation of                                        aodalties Including the        the Project Cycle Unit to
boale infrostructuro that                                    type of inforoation,           provide guidelines on
so critical for                                               economic critoria for         project proparation to line
supportlig the progr a's                                     *dmission of new projects    ministries and governmont
objectives of Increasing                                     and timing for revio-e of    agencies and to evaluate                                            .
exports and prlvate                                          the PSIP (In the context       and monitor projetn                                             4>
investmnt.  The moat                                         of a roiling three-your        included in the PSIP.
reent task is to rostore                                     framework);
electricity supply to                                         (c) Agreement on
required levels.                                             Institutional arrangemnt.
- prIncipally the
staffing In tbo State
Planning Secretariat --
for providin guidelines
on projoet preparation to
line ministrios and
governmnt ogenieso and
for evaluation and
monitoring of projeets;
(d) Improvement of
Oxternal oId coordination
through the sorvie,s of an
advisor to the Ministry of
Finance to maintain
continuous contect with
donors and to facilitate
proeurement and                                                                           uo
disbursemont of fund8
provided by bilateral and                                                                  cn
multilateral donors.                                                                       oC
Chb



Z    i                                 ~~~GUYAN A
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W-                                             IsIdA        0jNT
N           JM6    C                   ~~~~~~~~~ ~~ESSEOUIGO  PAIA   t)TO            *J
)    _1'@                                            >5AH~~~~                ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AICA  
( uon>                                                 KAR""U COtINT 0Fe           $0' >tRIj
\ X k =, Qg,SAW f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CR  iEEK
,        _            X~~~~~KIETEUR t            8t         s       >
;   I  I Alluvial COmt ArmQ                -       \                   
L  - ~"Roedsf
Abtfi                                                           'AP ~OTERI          Z>      
Int---    ationl gotw*bs                o                   
ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES    " CY / !.
i  CeopsJPos-Ture  s^yo  !) _   IZ  s                         }            t~
o ,p   20    3 0 <1 tt 
Ml20   il   'P.  \IfUArlW
; > 14 ~~OCEAN.., 
t ! VC ;s~~~              9  A     Z . ,    .  2 1- J                                              -    B   R .   A   Z   I   L



