Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 2168-1 GUA
       (Second Structural Adjustment Credit - Supplemental)
                              between
                              GUYANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 13, 1990
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 2168-1 GUA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1990, between GUYANA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment
Credit), of even date herewith (the SAC Agreement), for the purpose
of assisting in the financing of the execution of the Program, as
such term is defined in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the SAC
Agreement;
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional financing for the execution of the Program;
      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
additional assistance to the Borrower by making a supplemental
Credit as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
      to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
      Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
      and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
      such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
      the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
      the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
      under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
      of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the Preamble to, and in Section 1.02 of, the
SAC Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,600,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of
June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
Page  3
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 com-
mencing September 15, 2000 and ending March 15, 2030. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2010,
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) The Bank of Guyana is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,  the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Guyana with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be fur-nished
to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be con-solidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
SDR 80,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Associa-tion has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
                  Additional Events of Suspension
Page  5
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that a situation has arisen which shall make it improba-
ble that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
      (b)   the CDB Loan Agreement and the FRG Loan Agreement shall
both have failed to become effective by September 30, 1990, or such
later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower estab-
lishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement;
      (c)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the CDB Loan or the FRG Loan
                        made to the Borrower for the financing of
                        the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                        part, pursuant to the terms of the CDB Loan
                        Agreement or the FRG Loan Agreement; or
                  (B)   any of the CDB Loan or FRG Loan shall have
                        become due and payable prior to the agreed
                        maturity thereof;
            (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreements; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and conditions consistent
                        with the obliga-tions of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement; and
      (d)   the Borrower shall have failed to make payment of prin-
cipal, interest, service charge or any other amount due to CDB,   or
to the Association as assignee thereof, under a loan or credit from
CDB the proceeds of which were originally provided to CDB by the
Association or the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section; and
      (b)   that the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the SAC Agreement have been fulfilled.
Page  6
      Section 5.02. The date October 15, 1990 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Ministry of Finance
            Main and Urquhart Streets
            Georgetown
            Guyana
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                    3038
                  Guyana
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  GUYANA
                  By /s/ Cedric H. Grant
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                             SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Page  7
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-group               Description of Items
112               -                 Alcoholic beverages
121               -                 Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
122               -                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco
                                    substitutes)
525               -                 Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
667               -                 Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
718         718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
897         897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
971         -                       Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,600,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1989;
      (d)   unless the Association shall otherwise agree, expendi-
tures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $50,000
equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
      (f)   expenditures for sugar or goods intended for a military
or para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the pro-
curement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$2,000,000 may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.
                             SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical
                  or technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
            (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association;
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines;
and
      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
Page  9
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
5.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
