Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2168-6 GUA
Fifth Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 7, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2168-6 GUA
FIFTH AGREEMENT AMENDING
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1994 between REPUBLIC OF GUYANA   
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Associa-tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment Credit), dated 
July 13, 1990, as supplemented on June 13, 1990 and amended on December 4, 
1990, June 14, 1991, February 7, 1992 and June 21, 1993 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred 
to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the 
Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance toward the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million nine hundred and ninety thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,990,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by:
(a)
deleting the word "and" after paragraph (l) thereof;
(b)
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (m) thereof by a 
semicolon and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(c)
by adding the following new paragraph (n):
"(n)
"Fifth Amending Agreement" means the Fifth 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Second 
Page  3
Structural Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated June 7, 1994."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the 
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eighty-three million twenty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR  83,020,000) (the Credit), which includes an 
original amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
57,200,000); a supplemental amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,600,000) (the Supplemental Financing); a first 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to three million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000) (the 
Additional Financing), a second additional amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,200,000) (the Second Additional 
Financing), a third additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,400,000) (the Third Additional Financing), a fourth 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to two million 
five hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,530,000) (the Fourth Additional Financing), and a fifth additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million nine 
hundred and ninety thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
1,990,000) (the Fifth Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. A fifth proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the 
Fifth Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after 
the date of the Fifth Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement:
"10. After a date twelve months from the date of the Fifth 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no 
Page  4
commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the 
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Fifth Additional Financing. At any time after 
such date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel 
the unwithdrawn amount of the Fifth Additional Financing from 
the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower 
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by 
September 6, 1994, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establish-es a later date for the purposes 
of this Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Develop-ment Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
Page  5
By /s/ Asgar Ally
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
