Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2168 GUA
               (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                              GUYANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 7, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2168 GUA
                     THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1992, between GUYANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa-
tion).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment
Credit), dated July 13, 1990, as amended on December 4, 1990 and
June 14, 1991 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of
assisting in the financing of the program referred to in Recital (A)
of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development
Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent
to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,400,000); and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by:
      (a)   deleting the word "and" after paragraph (j) thereof;
      (b)   substituting the stop at the end of paragraph (k) there-
of by a semicolon and adding the word "and" after such semicolon;
and
      (c)   by adding the following new paragraph (l):
                  "(l)  "Third Amending Agreement" means the Third
            Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement
            (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) between the
            Borrower and the Association, dated February 7, 1992."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
                  "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to
            the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
            referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
            amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five
            million and nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
            (SDR 75,900,000) (the Credit), which includes an
            original amount in various currencies equivalent to
            fifty-seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
            Rights (SDR 57,200,000), a first additional amount in
            various currencies equivalent to three million one
            hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000)
            (the Additional Financing) a second additional amount in
            various currencies equivalent to thirteen million two
            hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,200,000)
            (the Second Additional Financing); and a third
            additional amount in various currencies equivalent to
            two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
            (SDR 2,400,000) (the Third Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. A second proviso is added at the end of Section
2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
                  "; provided, however, that any commitment charge
            on the Third Additional Financing shall accrue from a
            date sixty days after the date of the Third Amending
            Agreement.
      Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount
"SDR 63,530,000" and the substitution therefor of the amount
"SDR 65,930,000".
      Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
                  "8. After a date twelve months from the date of
            the Third Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be
            made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
            amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
            expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
            Third Additional Financing. At any time after such date,
Page  3
            the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
            the unwithdrawn amount of the Third Additional Financing
            from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by May 7, 1992, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establish-
es a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement
shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if
this Agreement had not been executed.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  GUYANA
                  By /s/ John Murray
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
