Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2168 GUA
               (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                              GUYANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 14, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2168 GUA
                     SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1991, between GUYANA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment
Credit), dated July 13, 1990, as amended on December 4, 1990 (the
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development
Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,200,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by:
      (a)   deleting the word "and" after paragraph (i) thereof;
      (b)   substituting the stop at the end of paragraph (j) there-
of by a semi-colon and adding the word "and" after such semicolon;
and
      (c)   by adding the following new paragraph (k):
                  "(k)  "Second Amending Agreement" means the Second
            Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement
            (Second Structural Adjustment Credit) between the
            Borrower and the Association, dated June 14, 1991."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
                  "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to
            the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
            referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
            amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-three
            million and five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
            (SDR 73,500,000) (the Credit), which includes an
            original amount in various currencies equivalent to
            fifty-seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
            Rights (SDR 57,200,000), an additional amount in various
            currencies equivalent to three million one hundred
            thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000) (the
            Additional Financing) and a further additional amount in
            various currencies equivalent to thirteen million two
            hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,200,000)
            (the Second Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. A second proviso is added at the end of Section
2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
                  "; provided, however, that any commitment charge
            on the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a
            date sixty days after the date of the Second Amending
            Agreement.
      Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount
"SDR 50,330,000" and the substitution therefor of the amount
"SDR 63,530,000".
      Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
                  "7. After a date twelve months from the date of
            the Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be
            made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
            amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
            expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
            Second Additional Financing. At any time after such
            date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
            cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional
            Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  3
      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by September 16, 1991, this Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  GUYANA
                  By /s/ John Murray
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
