Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FLE COPY
Report No.P-3128-BEN/TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AND A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
October 8, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      CFA Franc ,CFAF)
US$1.00           =     CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million   =      US$3,704
FISCAL YEARS
Governments  ;          January 1 - December 31
CEB                     January 1 - December 31
CEET                    October 1 - September 30
SBEE                    July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
kilogram                (kg)  =      2.2 pounds
meter                   (m)   =      39.37 inches
kilometer               (km)  =      0.62 miles
kilovolt                (kV)  =      1,000 volts
kilowatt                (kW)  =      1,000 watts
kilovolt-ampere         (kVA) =      1,000 volt amperes
Megawatt                (MW)  =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
Gigawatt hour           (GWh) =      1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
Ton crude oil
equivalent              (TOE) =      4,000 kWh
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEB    -         Communaute Electrique du Benin
CEET   -         Compagnie d'Energie Electrique du Togo
CIMAO  -         Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CTL    -         Centrale Thermique de Lom6
FAC    -         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
OTP    -         Office Togolais des Phosphates
SBEE   -         Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau
SNS    -         Societe Nationale de Siderurgie, Togo
VRA    -         Volta River Authority, Ghana
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF ) in the
ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:               People's Republic of Benin; Republic of Togo
Beneficiaries:           Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB),
Societe Beninoise d'Electricit4 et d'Eau (SBEE), and
Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET)
Amounts:                 Benin:   SDR 1.7 million (US$1,815,000 equivalent)
Togo :   SDR 1.8 million (US$1,985,000 equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms. Bank/IDA would reserve the right to
refinance the proposed Credits under a future Loan/Credit
for a project in the power sector.
On-Lending Terms:        To cover the cost of the additional geological and detailed
engineering studies included in the project, US$1.5 million
of the total proceeds of the two credits would be on-lent
to CEB for 20 years, including a 3-year grace period, at
an interest rate of 11.6% per annum. The remaining US$2.3
million, to cover the cost of general studies of the power
sector in Benin and Togo, would be transferred as grants
to CEB (US$1.45 million), SBEE (US$0.34 million) and CEET
(US$0.51 million). The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the Governments.
Co-Lender:               French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (FAC)
Project Description:    The objective of the project would be: (i) to help the Govern-
ments complete preparation of the Nangbeto hydro-electric
project; (ii) to help prepare regional and national energy
plans and improve overall planning in the power sectors
of Benin and Togo; (iii) to provide assistance in institu-
tion-buiding, and to strengthen accounting systems and proce-
dures. The project would specifically include:
(a) additional geological and detailed engineering
studies related to the Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme;
a study for population resettlement; hydraulic model
tests; technical evaluation of the proposed Nangbeto
project by an engineering review board; assistance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
for prequalification of contractors and suppliers;
preparation of bidding documents; and assistance in
bid evaluation. 1/
(b) studies to assess and strengthen the organization,
management, finances, accounting, and training capabili-
ties of the three beneficiary agencies.
(c) tariff studies to help these agencies review their
current policies;
(d) audits of CEB and CEET (an audit of SBEE will be
financed under a proposed Water Supply Engineering
Credit approved by the Executive Directors June 25,
1981);
(e) technical studies to strengthen the planning
capabilities of CEB, CEET and SBEE, including prepara-
tion of master plans for distribution in Cotonou and
Lome, and a survey of potential hydroelectric energy
resources.
There are no significant technical risks associated with the proposed studies.
The major risk is that the project being prepared might prove to be premature if
the anticipated growth in the demand for power does not materialize.
Estimated Cost:
The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of taxes from which it is exempt,
is as follows:
Foreign          Local           Tot'al
-------     (US$ millions)-----------
Additional geological, detailed engi-
neering and population studies,
and technical assistance for procurement                                         2/
procedures - Nangbeto hydro scheme           2.13            0.07            2.20-
Power Sector Studies                         0.28            0.02            0.30
Tariff Studies and Audits                    0.47            0.03            0.50
Planning Studies                             1.09            0.11            1.20
Base Line Cost                         3.97             0.23           4.20
Price Contingencies                    0.73             0.07           0.80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  4.70            0.30            5.00
1/ These studies are being financed in part under PPF Advances totalling
US$800,000, which would be refinanced under the proposed Credits.
2/ Includes refinancing of advanices under the PPF.



- iii -
Financing Plan
Foreign       Local         Total
(US$ millions)
IDA                              3.8 1/         -            3.8
FAC                              0.9            -            0.9
CEB, SBEE, CEET                   -            0.3           0.3
TOTAL                     4.7           0.3           5.0
Estimlated Disbursements from
Proceeds of the Two Credits
FY82          FY83
(US$'000)
Annual             2,550         1,250
Cumulative         2,550         3,800
Rate of Return:   Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD 15657
11 Includes the refinancing of advances of US$800,000 equivalent
fronm the Project Preparation Facility.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
AND
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for SDR 1.7 million
(US$1,815,000 equivalent), and to the Republic of Togo for SDR 1.8 million
(US$1,985,000 equivalent), to help finance a Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project. The Credits would be on standard IDA terms. Part of
the proceeds of the two Credits would be re-lent by the Governments to
the Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB) for twenty years including three
years of grace at 11.6% per annum, and part would be made available as
grants to CEB and through CEB to the Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et
d'Eau (SBEE), and the Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET). Additional
financing for the project is being provided by the French Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation (FAC) in the form of a grant of US$0.9 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
BENINV
2.        The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN, entitled
"The Economy of Benin", was circulated to the Executive Directors on May
31, 1979. The paragraphs below are based on this report, but include updated
information. Annex I (a) provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revoluion of 1972
which brought to power the military Government of President Kerekou. The
new regime immediately took steps to replace foreign dominance in the modern
sector and strengthen the Government's involvement in the agricultural
sector. These measures initially disrupted the economy since there was
an inadequate number of trained Beninese to replace the departing expatriates.
Yet the Government also pursued conservative financial policies which resulted
in budgetary surpluses and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at
less than 7 percent.
1/ The text of this section is essentially the same as that included in the
President's Report for the Cotonou Water/Sanitation Project (P-3083-BEN)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on July 9, 1981.



-2-
4.        Benin has since enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a tight centrally-controlled one-party system. Following
the adoption of a new constitution in early 1980, Lieutenant Colonel Mathieu
K6rdkou was confirmed as President of the Republic for a three-year term
by the National Assembly. President Kdr4kou has in turn appointed a civilian-
dominated Government.
5.        The nation is poised for a period of moderate growth propelled
by major investments in the industrial sector. But Benin's near-term prospects
should be assessed with caution because they are dependent on a few key
factors: the Nigeria and Niger markets, success of industrial projects,
and the continuation of a prudent budgetary policy.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        With a population of 3.4 million people and a per capita GNP
of $250 per arnum (1979), Benin remains one of the least developed countries
as defined by the United Nations. Over the 1976-80 period, the country
enjoyed an average real GDP growth rate of 4.6 percent, and a sound public
finance position due to a prudent budgetary policy. Exports more than
doubled from $133 million in 1976 to $306 million in 1980, but are little
diversified (mainly oil palm products and cotton). Nevertheless, because
of high and rising imports, a large resource gap (20 percent of GDP) was
recorded over the 1975-80 period, according to Central Bank statistics.
However, the gap is actually smaller due to the substantial volume of informal,
unrecozded 6,purLs, primarily to Nigeria. Also, an important part of the
remaining shortfall is financed by a sustained inflow of workers' remittances
and capital grants, leading to only a modest reliance on medium and long-
term borrowing.
7.        Agriculture, which employs about 70% of the population and generates
about 40% of GDP (1980), has not substantially increased its output over
the past decade. With respect to export crops, cotton peaked in 1972 at
50,000 tons, but has since fallen to around 15,000-20,000 tons. Palm oil
production continued to increase until the mid-1970s, but output has been
reduced since a severe drought in 1976. Institutional changes, insufficient
farmgate prices, lack of financial resources, and the absence of technical
assistance, are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of
export crops. Foodcrop production, although beset by many of these problems,
has fared somewhat better with sustained demand from Nigeria. The situation
of the sector in general is slowly improving under renewed Government support
through producer price increases, less interference with market forces,
and better climatic conditions.
8.        The industrial sector is still undeveloped due to a lack of skilled
manpower, smallness of the local market, and institutional constraints.
It employs less than 2 percent of the labor force, contributes 11 percent
to GDP (1980), and consists mostly of processing of agricultural products
and import-substitution activities. The sector achieved an 11 percent annual
real growth rate during 1972-76, but declined to 5 percent during 1977-
80 due to a drop in demand from the Nigerian market. Currently, Benin
is beginning to exploit additional natural resources through several major



- 3 -
major industrial projects: the Onigbolo cement factory (limestone), the
Save sugar plant, and the Seme offshore oil field (para. 14).
9.         The tertiary sector (mostly transport, coimmerce and public
services) employs about 40% of the labor force and accounts for nearly
42% of GDP. The port of Cotonou has traditionally provided access to
the sea for landlocked Niger and the western part of Nigeria. The Niger
traffic through Cotonou Port rose from 180,000 tons in 1973 to 529,000
tons in 1977. Total transit traffic including Nigerian traffic rose to
a peak level of 900,000 tons in 1979, and then declined slightly during
1980. The Association is leading a group of cofinanciers in a major expansion
of the port facilities.
Public Finance
10.       As a result of a prudent budgetary policy, Benin has been running
current surpluses averaging about CFAF 4-5 billion during the last five
years. The Government followed a conscious policy of controlling current
expenditures (which showed no increase in real terms during 1972-79)
through limits on salaries of civil servants, and holding down maintenance
expenditures. It also derived increased revenues from the rise in cross-
border trade with Nigeria, and from increased small-scale industrial
activities (textiles, beverages). However, the overall budgetary position
has been in deficit because of substantial expenditures on investments
and Government lending in support of unprofitable state enterprises.
11.        In 1980, the overall deficit of the Central Government rose
to CFAF 15 billion, nearly four times the average level of the previous
four years. This substantial shortfall was the result of the Government's
efforts to mobilize resources for an accelerated implementation of the
Three-Year Development Plan. The deficits have been financed mainly
from external sources and domestic borrowing.
12.       Prices have been kept under control, and the overall rate of
inflation was limited to 9-10% in 1979-80. The increased economic activity
induced by the start-up of major industrial projects is likely to exert
continuous pressure on prices in the next few years, with an inflation
rate of 11-12% projected for 1981-82.
13.       The Government is committed to broad-based socio-economic policies,
but a key concern hitherto has been to keep wages and salaries low because
of limited public revenues. In real terms, both public and private sector
salaries have declined. Cash incomes of the farmers may have increased
slightly, the losses resulting from the drop in cotton production probably
having been made up by increased exports of maize to Nigeria. Thus, Benin
is one of the few countries in Africa where the urban-rural income gap
has not widened in recent years.
Development Planning and Issues
14.       A three-year Plan (1979-80) was issued in October 1977, setting
out the Government's economic goals. Its stated objectives are to raise
the general standard of living, to strengthen national economic policies
and to promote broad participation in the conception and implementation



of economic and social changes. Investment allocation in the Plan favors
large-scale projects. The major items are: the Cotonou Port extension (US$50
million) financed by IDA and seven other agencies; a 40,000-ton sugar project
at Save (US$210 million); a 500,000-ton cement plant at Onigbolo (US$159
million); and the Seme off-shore oil production project (US$120 million),
estimated to yield a total of about 11 to 20 million barrels. These projects
together account for some 50% of Plan investment. Work on the Cotonou
Port is far advanced. The sugar and cement projects are joint ventures
with the Nigerian Government, with Nigerian marketing and financing guarantees.
The production of sugar, cement and oil should commence around 1982.
15.       In fact, the rate of implementation of the Three-Year Plan has
been less than 50% of Plan objectives. Major difficulties include inadequate
project preparation and coordination, delays in obtaining foreign financial
commitments, and insufficient control over project execution. Recently,
however, the Government has succeeded in accelerating commitments from
foreign aid donors, and total public investment is likely to be some US$750
million in the five-year period 1978-82. This represents an increase in
the public investment rate from 10% during 1972-77 to 19% in 1978-82.
Economic Prospects
16.       The medium-term economic outlook in Benin is for real GDP growth
during 1981-85 of the order of 5-6 percent per annum. The risks to Benin's
economy are a slackening of export demand and the negative impact of bottle-
necks which may arise in implementing the large industrial projects. The
benefits from these projects are, in turn, dependent upon price agreements
(with Nigeria in the case of cement and sugar). Benin's agricultural growth
prospects, moreover, will depend on effective pricing and marketing poli-
cies in the rural sector. In the long-term, Benin's growth potential will
be limited by a weak resource base to perhaps 4% per year; and even the
achievement of this rate will depend on the ability of Government to channel
resources and orient national programs (for example, in social and economic
infrastructure, training, marketing) to the development of production of
both food crops and cash crops.
17.       Benin's public finance and balance of payments situation may
fluctuate more over the next five years than has been the case in the preced-
ing half-decade. In the mid-1970s conservative public policies led to
budget surpluses and a stable trend in foreign reserves. This partly reflected,
however, the lack of sizeable new initiatives in public investment. The
situation is now changing with the increase in public investment which
places heavy demands on the Treasury for counterpart funding, and steps
up the pace of capital and intermediate goods imports matched by foreign
financial inflows. The balance of payments will undergo fluctuations between
now and 1985 under the impact of the major projects. Since the large projects
underway will heavily influence the trade balance and public finances,
their successful implementation is essential for Benin's medium-term outlook.
18.       Benin's total external debt (including undisbursed), which until
the end of 1980 had remained relatively low (amounting to US$425 million
with a debt service equivalent to 4.5% of the country's exports), is expected
to rise substantially as investments and borrowing conditions harden. The
debt service ratio is projected to exceed 20% of exports in the mid-1980s.



The ratio is high, but up to 80% of the debt service is accounted for by
the large projects, two of which are guaranteed by Nigeria.
19.       In view of Benin's low per capita income, the growing need for
external funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and the
narrow export base, it will be necessary to increase the volume of foreign
financing on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance
no more than 10-15 percent of its overall public investment program; thus
foreign donors should continue to provide a large share of total project
costs, including some financing of local costs.
I/
TOGO-/
20.       The most recent economic report on Togo, Report No. 458a-TO,
entitled "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of Togo", was issued
on December 30, 1974. Economic missions visited Togo in 1978 and 1980.
Their findings are incorporated below and in Annex I (b) which contains
basic country data.
Introduc tion
21.       Togo has enjoyed political stability since 1967 when a military
government came to power. General Eyadema is President, but the Government
is entirely civilian. President Eyadema is also Chairman of the RPT (Rassem-
blement du Peuple Togolais), the country's sole political party. Togo's
external policy, in the spirit of the Lome I and II Conventions, favors
regional and international cooperation.
Economic Performance
22.       Togo is a small country (56,000 km ) with a population of about
2.4 million and a per capita GNP of US$340 (1979). Phosphate mining has
been the principal source of foreign exchange earnings, accounting for
an estimated 39% of export revenues in 1979/80, and receipts from phosphates
represent nearly 30% of government revenues.
23.       Slow growth and increasing financial disequilibria were the salient
features of the Togolese economy during the 1975-80 period. The slow growth
represented a deceleration from historical growth trends, and was the result
of a drop in phosphate production and exports in 1975 and a recovery to
full capacity thereafter, and of stagnation or decline in the production
of export crops. The 1974/75 boom in world phosphate prices contributed
to a substantial increase in export earnings and Government revenues, and
prompted the Government to adopt an ambitious Development Plan for 1976-
80.
24.       Growth in real GDP averaged less than 3% per annum during the
1975-80 period. Gross domestic expenditure outpaced production with the
result that the resource gap widened significantly through 1978. Due to
the rapid increase in public investment, gross domestic investment rose
sharply to exceed 50% of GDP in 1978, but declined to an estimated 21%
in 1980, as growing fiscal constraints necessitated a cutback.
1/ The text of this section is substantially the same as in the President's
Report for the Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(P-3084-TO) which was approved by the Executive Directors on June 23, 1981.



- 6 -
25.       In the primary sector, accounting for 30% of GDP and 80% of employ-
ment, growth has been limited by inadequate investments and extension services,
insufficient price incentives, and occasional droughts. Although Togo relies
largely on traditional production techniques, it is generally self-sufficient
in food crops, except during serious droughts. Yet the relative neglect
of agriculture has meant that only tiny portions of the cultivable land
benefit from fertilizers, insecticides, and selected seeds. Yields are
consequently low. Production of export crops, mainly cocoa and coffee,
has been hampered until recently by less attractive producer prices and
by aging trees with declining yields.
26.       The secondary sector experienced drastic swings during the 1975-
80 period. Production of phosphate rock slumped badly in 1975 due to a
recession-induced decline in demand, but recovered almost completely during
the following two years. The massive investments channelled into industrial
projects did not boost real GDP on account of the little, or occasionally
even negative, value added of several new industrial units. Construction
went through boom and bust as output doubled between 1975 and 1978, because
of greatly stepped-up investment, and subsequently declined to the 1975
volume. From a peak of 10,000 in 1978, employment in construction was cut
to 4,000 in 1980. The capital-intensive nature of many investments led
to an increase in demand for energy, most of which is met through imports
of electricity and petroleum products.
27.       In the tertiary sector, recent growth was concentrated in public
services and financial activities. The rapid increase in public services
was caused by substantial recruitment into the civil service which increased
by 75% to 39,300 during 1975-80. The growing size and sophistication of
the banking system accounted for the rapid expansion of financial activi-
ties, while economic activity in private transport and commerce, which
are little affected by public intervention, expanded more in line with
the rest of the economy.
public Finance
28.       In 1975 current revenues of the Government nearly doubled to
CFAF 33 billion as revenue from phosphates tripled from CFAF 4 to 12 bil-
lion. In 1976, the first year of the third Five-Year Plan, the Government
embarked upon its expansionary program just when the phosphate market col-
lapsed. However, while phosphate prices fell, output rose and--supplemented
by higher import duty receipts--current revenue nevertheless continued
to rise. Although current expenditure also increased rapidly, mainly due
to a rising wage bill, a sizeable surplus was left to finance investment
and debt service.
29.       Public investment (in current prices) of the Administration,
state enterprises and agencies increased from CFAF 30 billion in 1975 to
CFAF 88 billion in 1978, and continued at the still high but reduced rate
of CFAF 51 billion in 1980, as disbursements were made on projects being
implemented. In part because of the heavy reliance on foreign financing,
which was often project-tied, the investments undertaken differed greatly
from those foreseen in the 1976-80 Development Plan. Compared to its prede-
cessors, the Plan had placed more emphasis on rural development and, to



a lesser extent, on social services. However, during implementation major
shortfalls were experienced for these categories, while more than planned
was spent on infrastructure, tourism and industry.
30.       Much of the foreign borrowing was undertaken on commercial terms
to finance the investment programs of newly-created state enterprises,
which upon their completion were unable to service their foreign debt.
This situation led to the assumption by the Treasury of a rapidly rising
debt service burden. By 1977/78 debt service had risen to such an extent
that the Treasury had accumulated sizeable arrears, and in 1979 the Togolese
authorities negotiated a financial program with the IMF, and a rescheduling
of debt obligations was obtained through the Paris Club. Togo adhered
scrupulously to the new terms, but even with the debt relief, available
resources were severely strained during 1980, when CFAF 14 billion (25%
of current revenues) had to be allocated to debt service. Because of the
short-term nature of the agreement, amortization and interest due by the
Government would have amounted to CFAF 37 billion (over 50% of current
revenues) in 1981. Togo therefore undertook a second round of debt negotia-
tions, and in February 1981 an agreement was reached on the rescheduling
of most of Togo's debt due in 1981/82. In February 1981 the IMF approved
a stand-by arrangement in the upper credit tranches in support of the Govern-
ment's financial and economic program for 1981/82. The program aims at
further reducing both the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments and the budget deficit, and at strengthening management of
existing state enterprises and implementing a selective investment policy.
Development Planning and Issues
31.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) recently approved by the
National Assembly, sets forth the Government's goals in general terms:
promoting industrialization through the development of small-scale enter-
prises; promoting rural development in order to reach self-sufficiency;
developing transport and improving the maintenance of the road network;
developing research and human resources; and promoting regional develop-
ment. The total amount of the Plan's "priority program"--CFAF 250 billion-
-is, however, substantially in excess of the resources likely to be avail-
able, given the debt service burden now facing the Government. In recogni-
tion of this fact the Togolese authorities have undertaken to revise the
Plan, excluding projects whose implementation is doubtful and concentrating
on those with adequate rates of return. Further, the five-year period will
be divided into two tranches, the first corresponding to the time of great-
est financial strain and providing for much reduced capital spending plans,
and the second allowing for some expansion.
32.       With respect to public enterprises, the Government has established
a new Ministry of State Enterprises and Industry, which has begun a prelimi-
nary review to identify their problems and prospects. At Government request,
a Bank mission visited Togo in March/April 1981 to advise on a course of
action, incuding the closing of certain enterprise activities in appropriate
circumstances.



-8-
Economic Prospects
33.       In the 1981-85 period, the outlook is for average annual real
GDP growth of about 3.5%, i.e. an increase in GDP per capita of about 1%
per annum. Growth is expected to become more evenly spread among the sectors
but still highest in the secondary sector due to expanding mining operations
and higher industrial production from existing plants. The modest improve-
ment in projected growth will not relieve unemployment which will be aggra-
vated by the number of new entrants into the labor market. The pursuit
of less expansionary policies is expected to lead to a substantially smaller
resource gap and higher domestic savings.
34.       In agriculture there is scope to increase the output of both
food and export crops, and growth is projected to be about 3% annually
between 1981 and 1985. More resources allocated to food crops to modernize
production techniques, and the beginning of returns on IDA-supported cocoa
and coffee replanting schemes will be the main reasons for the more rapid
growth in agriculture. Investment would be concentrated on relatively high-
yielding schemes in food crops, cotton and other cash crops.
35.       The outlook for the secondary sector between 1981 and 1985 is
mixed, with growth on the order of 5%. Production and export of phosphate
rock is expected to continue to increase in response to world demand.
Since, in addition, the Bank-supported CIMAO clinker project is expected
to approach full capacity utilization, overall output in mining is likely
to increase significantly. In manufacturing, the Government's intention
to adopt remedial policies to redress state enterprises is expected to
overcome the stagnation of this sector. Growth in construction will be
modest or nil because of financial constraints, while the energy sector
will be boosted by projects and policies to replace electricity imports
by domestic production. In the tertiary sector, the severe financial con-
straints facing the Government will limit growth in the output of public
services.  Growth in transport and commerce is, on the contrary, likely
to quicken on the assumptions that Togo will be better able to organize
its transit trade to benefit from existing infrastructure, and that--as
in the past-- the sector will continue to be largely unaffected by Govern-
ment intervention.
36.       Notwithstanding the debt rescheduling in 1981, the 1981-85 period
will demand judicious policies to balance the need to meet rising debt
service obligations with the need to maintain a minimum development effort,
in particular in 1983 when debt servicing reaches a sharp peak. Except
for enclave-type operations, there is no scope for additional borrowing
on financial markets, and even with a lower level of investment, foreign
financing, especially on concessionary terms, will be required. Government
finances will be extremely tight during the beginning of the period, requir-
ing austerity in current expenditure and highly selective investments.
Toward the end of the period, rising revenues from phosphates and a moderate
acceleration in economic growth will begin to ease the financial constraint,
although low net capital inflows will put pressure on the balance of pay-
ments, requiring further recourse to balance of payments assistance. With
the restoration of a sounder financial situation, Togo's longer term develop-
ment prospects remain quite promising and there is considerable scope to
exploit the resource base of the economy.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN AND TOGO
BENIN
37.       To date the Bank Group has extended thirteen Credits to Benin,
including two supplementary Credits, totalling $107.6 million. Four of
the Credits helped finance agriculture projects with emphasis on develop-
ment of cotton and foodcrop production, and support to the cooperative
system, as well as major technical assistance efforts to strengthen mana-
gerial and technical performance of national agricultural institutions.
38.       Five Credits have supported Government's activities in the highway
sector. Operations have included construction and rehabilitation of import-
ant sections of the country's main trunk road and of other paved and gravel
roads; a major effort in feeder road development; and strengthening and
expansion of the road maintenance program, including elimination of backlog
resurfacing works. Also in the transport sector, an ongoing port project
includes provision for increased berth space, as well as improved cargo
handling and storage capacity, and technical assistance to improve port
operations.
39.       In education, a first project to expand support to the non-formal
sector and emphasizing vocational training is almost completed. A second
project now under preparation would focus on teacher training for primary,
secondary, and technical schools, and local production of teaching materials.
IDA is also providing assistance to small-and medium-scale enterprises
through an FY80 Credit to the national development bank (Banque Beninoise
pour le Developpement - BBD). In addition to making available resources
to BBD through 1982, the project provides for strengthening the institution's
management and its capacity to promote small- and medium-scale investments.
40.       An FY81 Credit to Benin, for a Water and Sanitation Engineering
Project, will address the most urgent needs of Cotonou in this sector,
and help define and implement long-range objectives and strategies. The
remainder of the planned program for the next several years is devoted
to continuing work in sectors with existing IDA activity, and initiating
Bank Group support in oil exploration, urban development, and in the import-
ant power sector as proposed in the present project.
TOGO
41.       Bank Group lending to Togo totals eleven Credits amounting to
US$90.6 million, and two loans totalling US$53.0 million for the CIMAO
project (a loan of US$3.5 million to Togo, and one of US$49.5 million to
CIMAO jointly and severally guaranteed by the Ivory Coast, Ghana and Togo).
Togo is the host of the CIMAO project, the largest regional industrial
venture undertaken so far in West Africa. Implementation of this US$284
million clinker project, financed by the Bank and seven other official
aid agencies, has been completed, and production started in March 1980.
To improve CIMAO's cost structure, a project to convert the installations
from oil to coal firing is being considered.



- 10 -
42.       Four of the Credits were in the road sector, with efforts directed
to building up an efficient maintenance service, upgrading the country's
main and more heavily trafficked roads, and the start of a comprehensive
transport planning and coordination system. A separate project for feeder
road development provided for effective improvement works and maintenance
operations on this network.
43.       The objectives of the four agricultural projects partly financed
by IDA Credits are to increase foodcrop production and farm income through
development of cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, and cotton. As part of
a sector-wide rehabilitation effort, a Bank Group mission visited Togo
in March 1981 to examine the scope for sectoral reforms which could be
achieved through a large-scale cotton and foodcrop project; it is planned
that this operation would incorporate a strategy to help overcome the slow
growth of output and incomes in the rural sector.
44.       An important objective of Bank Group lending to Togo is also
to help develop the country's large mining potential to increase its foreign
exchange earning capabilities, to strengthen institutions in the main economic
sectors, and to support the training and education system. An FY79 techni-
cal assistance project to the Ministry of Planning, aimed at helping the
Government formulate sound investment and public finance policies, is now
well underway. An FY81 Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit will
help to determine the technical and economic viability of developing a
phosphate fertilizer project in Togo.
45.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations
in Benin and Togo, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
46.       Benin and Togo are endowed with abundant forests, and firewood
constitutes the main source of non-commercial energy, while charcoal is
becoming the preferred fuel for domestic consumption in urban areas. How-
ever, the high demand for firewood, combined with the effects of several
droughts in recent years, have cast serious doubts on the long-term availa-
bility of this precious resource. An off-shore oil field has been identi-
fied in Benin at Seme, which is expected to produce within two years about
4,000 barrels per day of crude oil; in Togo, exploration is being actively
pursued. The undeveloped hydroelectric potential of the two countries is
estimated at 2,000 GWh per annum. Although 22 sites suitable for hydroelec-
tric power production have been identified, there has been no systematic
inventory of these energy resources, nor any attempt to rank them. The
proposed project includes financing for such an inventory and ranking in
both countries.
47.       Currently almost all (about 95Z) electricity consumed in Benin
and Togo is imported; the remainder is produced locally, using imported
oil. In 1980, the two countries imported 440 GWh of electrical energy from
the Akosombo hydroelectric plant in Ghana (para. 50), and 260,000 tons
of petroleum products and crude oil. Firewood and charcoal consumption



- 11 -
for the same year is estimated at 2.2 million tons and 61,000 tons respec-
tively. This represents a total energy consumption for 1980 of 955,000
tons of crude oil equivalent (TOE) or 165 kg. of oil equivalent per capita,
one of the lowest rates in the world.
48.       The coastal regions of Benin and Togo are experiencing a sharp
increase in electric power demand as a result of industrialization and
rapid development. Peak demand and energy consumption for the two countries
have increased at an annual rate of 17 and 15 percent respectively over
1975-79. A major concern for the two Governments is to preserve scarce
forest resources and to meet the rapid increase in energy demand, while
reducing the risks associated with dependence on imported power and minimiz-
ing oil imports. The Governments have therefore been seeking to develop
alternative sources of energy and, to that end, are giving high priority
to formulating national energy plans to determine the most rational develop-
ment and use of various energy sources. Technical assistance to be provided
under the proposed project would help in formulating such plans.
Institutional Framework
49.       The energy sector is under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Industry, Mines and Energy in Benin, and the Ministry of Public Works,
Mines, Energy and Water Resources in Togo. Since 1968, Benin and Togo have
been associated in a common power development program through the establish-
ment of a bi-national agency, the Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB),
which has its head office in Lome and is run by a General Manager under
a seven-member bi-national agency, the Communaut4 Electrique du Benin (CEB),
which has its head office in Lome and is run by a General Manager under
a seven-member bi-national council at the ministerial level.
50.       CEB's activities are regulated by a treaty, the "Daho-Togolese
Code". CEB's main purpose as detailed in the "Code" is to provide all
new power generation and transmission facilities in the two countries,
and to operate them on an industrial and commercial basis. In 1969, CEB
began the construction of a trunk transmission system for Benin and Togo,
and under a contract signed the same year by the Governments of Benin,
Ghana and Togo, CEB was guaranteed power supply by the Volta River Authority
(VRA) of Ghana from the 762MW Akosombo power plant. The contract provided
for supply of up to 50MW for 15 years beginning in 1973; this limit was
increased to 67MW in 1979, when the CIMAO clinker plant in Togo started
operations.l/ CEB has therefore been supplying bulk electric power imported
from Ghana to the two national public utility companies: Societe Beninoise
d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE) and Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo
(CEET), as well as to large consumers in Togo such as CIMAO, the Office
Togolais des Phosphates (OTP), and the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie
(SNS). In the field of power generation, however, CEB has so far not received
clear support from the two Governments for integration of power generation
facilities, and there has been a lack of coordination for thermal power
generation (para. 56). The proposed project provides for preparation of
a master plan for power generation and distribution for Benin and Togo,
thereby helping to establish a clear policy regarding overall responsibi-
lity for coordination of these operations.
1/ CIMAO (Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest) 90% owned in equal parts by Togo,
Ghana and the Ivory Coast, and 10% by private French interests. CIMAO
operates a 1.2 million ton clinker plant at Tabligbo, about 65km northeast
of Lome in Togo.



- 12 -
51.       CEB's staff totals about 160. It is a fairly well run company,
and since it started operations, quality of service has been good. However,
management activities so far have been limited to running a power trans-
mission system, with its related substations. CEB's staff has no experience
in managing the construction and operation of a large hydroplant such as
the proposed Nangbeto hydroelectric project (paras. 62 and 72-74). The
proposed Engineering Credit includes technical assistance to help CEB assess
its needs related to implementation and operation of the Nangbeto project,
and provides for the design of an appropriate training/recruitment plan
for its staff.
52.       The Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET) was created in
1963 as a joint stock company, with the Government holding 70% of capital
shares. It operates, de facto, as a State agency, since the 30% of capital
shares reserved for the private sector have remained unsubscribed. CEET
is responsible for power distribution to low-voltage customers and to small
industries, under supervision of the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry
of State Enterprises. CEET's main source of power supply comes from Ghana
through the CEB transmission system, which provided just over 90% of total
energy available to the company in 1979. CEET also operates a standby diesel
plant in Lome, and several smaller diesel plants in secondary centers.
53.       CEET lacks qualified staff for all phases of its activities.
Salaries are low, a fact which hampers recruitment and retention of quali-
fied personnel. Distribution and production facilities have not been properly
maintained, while the rapid expansion of CEET's activities, particularly
during the last five years, has posed considerable difficulties for its
management. The proposed project provides for implementation of a study
to review CEET's problems in organization, management and personnel, includ-
ing measures for improving present plant maintenance practices.
54.       The Societd Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE) was legally
established in 1973 as a national enterprise to plan, construct, operate
and maintain power and urban water supply facilities throughout Benin.
In the power sector, SBEE (like CEET), mainly distributes power supplied
through the CEB transmission system and from its own standby diesel plant
in Cotonou, as well as a number of smaller diesel plants scattered through-
out the country. SBEE is a fairly well organized public utility which is
conscious of giving good service to its customers, and which has competent
key personnel in both the power and water functions. Staff training is
being actively addressed at two separate personnel grade levels. The German
Aid Agency (GTZ) is currently providing a training program for technicians
and semi-professional staff, while IDA is planning to finance scholarships
and additional training for professional staff under the Cotonou Water/Sanitation
Engineering Credit which was approved by the Executive Directors on June
25, 1981.
Existing Power Facilities
55.       CEB owns and operates the transmission system in Benin and Togo
which consists of: (i) a 161 kV double circuit line (168 km long) linking
Lome, Mome-Hagou and Cotonou to Ghana's VRA system; (ii) three substations:
LomO (161/20 kV-32MVA), Mome-Hagou (161/63 kV-30MVA), and Cotonou-Vedoko
(161/15 kV-32MVA); and (iii) two 63 kV lines (totalling 34 km) connecting



- 13 -
to secondary cities (Tabligbo and Habotoe). Main generating facilities
in Togo are operated by CEET and OTP. CEET facilities consist of four diesel
electric groups in Lome with a total capacity of 24.3MW, used as standby
power and for peak load situations, and an additional 8.4MW capacity in
nine provincial centers. OTP has a 15MW diesel electric plant, which has
been used as standby power since 1979 when OTP was connected to the CEB
network.
56.       In 1978 the Government of Togo, in order to reduce the country's
almost total dependence on imported power from Ghana, decided to buy a
120MW turnkey thermal power plant, the Centrale Thermique de Lome (CTL).
The plant is being installed at Lome's harbor, with completion currently
scheduled for end-1982. Once completed, the CTL plant will include two
gas turbines of 25MW each, four diesel units totalling 40MW, one steam
turbine of 28.7MW with a boiler heated by exhaust gases from the two gas
turbines. The gas turbines have been in operation since mid-1980, while
the remaining components of the plant are still under construction. The
CTL plant is connected to the CEB transmission system, and is currently
operated by the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS). However, the Govern-
ment recently decided to entrust its operations to CEET. The proposed pro-
ject includes a study to integrate CTL into Togo's power sector.
57.       The existing distribution system in Lome is severely overloaded
as a result of rapid urbanization and population growth, particularly the
increase since 1978 in the number of industries and hotels in Lomd and
its environs. Distribution losses have increased to more than 20%. CEET
has prepared a distribution program to help address these problems, but
the program is not yet well defined. The proposed project provides for
preparation of a master plan for distribution of electric power in Lom6,
including identification of priority works.
58.       In Benin, SBEE operates a 17.6MW diesel plant in Cotonou, and
diesel units totalling 3.7MW in four provincial centers. The power distribu-
tion system in Cotonou consists of 15 kV radial feeders, starting from
the CEB Vedoko substation, which can be tied in through several switching
substations at different points of the city.
59.       The growth of demand in Cotonou and in the coastal area as a
whole has imposed heavy loading on the distribution system. This, along
with a rise in unmetered power, accounts for a rapid increase in distribu-
tion losses (about 25i); in addition, there are large areas on the north
side of Cotonou (5 km with about 40,000 inhabitants) which have no access
to electricity service. The most affluent people, however, have built their
own low-voltage extensions, on precarious and dangerous structures, due
to lack of distribution facilities. As in the case of Lome, SBEE needs
assistance in preparing a rational distribution program, and the proposed
project provides for preparation of a master plan for distribution of elec-
tric power in Cotonou, including identification of priority works.
Power Market
60.       Energy sales by CEB have more than tripled to 290 GWh over the
period 1972-79. Most recent growth rates were 15% over 1977/78 and about
37% over 1978/79. However, the growth rate should decline by 1982 with



- 14 -
the effects of a general economic slowdown and the possible implementa-
tion of new power tariffs. VRA has announced its intentions to triple
its rates to CEB.
61.       In 1979, CEET sold an estimated 129 GWh of energy to about
24,000 customers, of which 119 GWh (about 93%) to about 19,000 customers
in Lome and the coastal area. Similarly, 90% of SBEE sales are to 15,000
customers in Cotonou and the coastal area. Over 90% of the power sold
by CEET and SBEE is provided by CEB.
Power Sector Planning
62.       The connection of new industries in Togo over the past two
years has increased the demand for power by about 30% in 1979 and 40%
in 1980.  This high rate of demand increase is expected to continue until
1982, due to major development projects coming onstream, but would then
drop to a lower annual average rate of about 10% through 1989.  Total
coincident peak demand of the integrated Togo/Benin electric system would
increase from 83.5MW at end-1980 to 153MW in 1985, and an estimated 201MW
in 1989. To meet this demand, Togo and Benin are expanding their generat-
ing facilities by (i) installing at the CTL plant four diesel units of
1OMW each and a 28.7MW steam turbine; and (ii) adding two diesel units
of 8MW each at the Akakpa plant in Cotonou. In addition, the two Govern-
ments plan to start the construction of the 63MW Nangbeto hydro scheme
on the Mono River (148 GWh annual generation) by early 1983.  This plant
is intended to cover the deficit of firm power expected to arise by 1986,
and to help reduce generation costs, particularly from imported fuel.
63.       With Nangbeto in operation by 1986 as planned, the peak demand/-
capability balance of the Togo/Benin integrated system is projected as
follows:
Actual               Forecast
1980         1986   1987   1988    1989
Peak power demand, MW                     83.5         168    179    189      201
Firm cara i--, MW (without Nangbeto)   85.0            160    160    158       158
Balance, MW (without Nangbeto)             1.5         (8)    (19)   (31)    (43)
Firm capacity, MW (with Nangbeto)         85.0         205    205    203      203
Balance, MW (with Nangbeto)                1.5          37     26      14        2
Note: ( ) means negative figure
Meeting the peak demand forecast for 1986 through 1989 would be ensured
by bringing in Nangbeto. However, as the above table shows, under the
power demand growth here assumed, further generating capacity would need
to be installed by about 1990. We would propose to seek assurances from
the two Governmnents in any project to finance the construction of the
Nangbeto dam, that no additional thermal generating units would be installed
without appropriate consultation with the Association.
Tariffs
64.       Tariffs applied by CEB consist of a fixed charge, a charge per kWh,
and a charge per KW of the monthly peak demand. Compared to the cost for any
available alternative supply, CEB's tariff is very low (equivalent of
USV2.2 per kWh). The tariff structure reflects the marginal cost of



- 15 -
power supply at the time the contract with VRA was signed in 1973; but
since CEB is already planning new facilities to respond to growing demand,
the tariff structure will need to be reviewed. CEB has also been distribut-
ing energy produced by CTL since 1980, and in accordance with a temporary
agreement implemented in December 1980, CEB pays for CTL's staff salaries
and for the fuel it consumes, passing on the corresponding additional cost
to Togolese consumers. In order to establish the basis for more satisfac-
tory and permanent financial and legal arrangements between CTL and CEB,
the tariff study to be implemented under the proposed project will also
assess the economic contribution of the CTL plant to the CEB power system.
65.       CEET tariffs have been unchanged since 1967. The low-voltage
tariff has a declining block pattern with prices for energy varying from
the equivalent of US011.2 to USJ7.4 per kWh. There is also a special tariff
for air conditioning, public lighting, and commercial and small industrial
use. In addition, CEET charges a meter fee and a maintenance fee which
both depend on meter rating. Larger industrial consumers pay a fixed charge
related to their suscribed power, and the price of energy varies from the
equivalent of US05.6 per kWh for peak hour consumption to US03.0 for off-
peak consumption. In May 1981 CEET was authorized by the Government of
Togo to apply a tariff increase averaging about 45%. However, this adjust-
ment will only serve to alleviate present financial difficulties. It will
still be necessary for CEET to define a medium-term tariff policy taking
into account the results of the proposed study of CEB's tariffs (para.
66), its own generating forecasts, and ongoing and planned rural develop-
ment schemes.
66.       The power and water tariff structure now applied countrywide
by SBEE has not been adjusted since 1966. Tariffs for domestic consumers
are applied in block pattern, with rates ranging between US010.0 to US012.8/kWh
equivalent. Special tariffs are charged for commercial consumption, for
air conditioning, and for public lighting. For high-voltage deliveries,
there is a fixed charge of CFAF 1,250/kW (US$5.0), and a charge for energy
of CFAF 13.5 (US05.4) per kWh consumed. There is a special tariff for inter-
ruptible service to industries, at the same rate, but with no fixed charge.
A reassessment of SBEE's tariff structure and study of its power charges
as proposed under the present project has become necessary, among other
reasons, because of the increasing cost of energy to SBEE already reflected
by CEB's tariff increases, the development of thermal-generated power in
rural areas, and the need for new generating equipment to satisfy steadily
increasing demand. Moreover, the proposed reassessment would help SBEE
and the Government in their ongoing tariff negotiations. All tariff studies
for CEB, CEET and SBEE would be carried out by the same consulting firm,
to be selected by agreement between these entities and in consultation
with the Association (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (e)).
Financial Performance
67.       Available information shows that the financial situation of CEB
and SBEE has been generally satisfactory, but that CEET's is weaker. Total
energy sales by CEB in FY79 amounted to CFAF 1.6 billion (US$6.4 million)
of which about 50% to CEET, 30% to SBEE and the remaining 20% to industrial
customers. Sales in FY80 increased sharply to CFAF 2.5 billion (US$10.0
million), due essentially to new industrial connections. CEB's total revenue



- 16 -
has generally exceeded operating expenses (including depreciation plus
interest), except in FY78 when CEB delayed by six months a tariff adjust-
ment to reflect an increase in VRA prices. Net income after interest and
depreciation in FY79 was CFAF 109 million (US$0.4 million). Long-term
debt as of December 31, 1979, mostly incurred on concessional terms from
CIDA (Canada), was CFAF 3.0 billion (US$12.0 million) and there has not
been any significant change in FY80. In FY79 the debt-equity ratio was
71:29. Debt service in FY79 was CFAF 37 million (US$0.15 million), and
maximum annual future debt service calculated on year-end 1979 debt will
be CFAF 142 million (US$0.6 million). The conventional debt service coverage
ratio calculated for FY79 over the maximum future debt service was 2.7.
Due to the sharp increase in revenue in 1980, while operating expenses
rose more moderately, CEB's financial performance improved in FY80. Customer
accounts amounted to about 3-4 months of billing at year-end 1977 and 1978,
increased to about seven months in 1979, but by mid-1980 had dropped to
about three months. In spite of cash drain difficulties, CEB has been able
to pay its suppliers regularly, and payables to VRA do not exceed two months
of billing.
68.       CEB's accounts are reviewed annually by Government auditors,
but these reviews have been limited in scope and depth. The proposed project
provides for a full audit of CEB's FY80 accounts, and a review of its accounting
systems and procedures by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
69.       The latest available financial information for CEET relates to
FY79 when total operating revenues were approximately CFAF 2.5 billion
(US$10.0 million). Sales to low-voltage consumers amounted to CFAF 1.5
billion (US$6.0 million) and sales to small industry at medium voltage
accounted for the remaining CFAF 1 billion (US$4.0 million). In recent
years, CEET has regularly shown a positive net income after depreciation
and interest, but this performance remains to be assessed by independent
auditors. As of September 30, 1979, receivables represented about six months
of billing, and available information indicates that this amount has increased
sharply during FY80 when, for example, Government arrears more than doubled
over 1979/80 from CFAF 600 million (US$2.4 million) to CFAF 1.4 billion
(US$5.6 million). The company's long-term indebtedness amounted to CFAF
2.8 billion (US$11.2 million) as of September 30, 1979; at that date, pay-
ables were CFAF 3.2 billion (US$12.8 million). As a result of its cash
difficulties, CEET failed to service its debt in FY79 and FY80. To ensure
availability of a comprehensive analysis of CEET's finances, the proposed
Credits include financing for an audit of CEET's FY80 accounts, and a review
of its accounting systems and procedures by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association.
70.       SBEE operates in both the power and water sectors. At present
it does not record its water and power operations separately, and the finances
of the two sectors must still be considered as a whole. For FY80, SBEE's
revenues from electricity sales were CFAF 2.0 billion (US$8.0 million)
and from water sales CFAF 0.7 billion (US$2.8 million). Total revenue ex-
ceeded cash operating expenses plus debt service. The operating ratio
for FY80 was 63%. Net fixed assets of CFAF 4.1 billion (US$16.4 million)
at the end of June 1979 were entirely covered by share capital and reserves.
Long term debt was only CFAF 1.4 billion (US$5.6 million) at the end of



- 17 -
FY79, and the ratio of debt to equity was 24:76. The debt service coverage
ratio was about 6. SBEE's cash position has been weakened by slow collec-
tion of customer bills, especially from the Government. The total of water
and power customer arrears at end-June 1980 amounted to CFAF 1.4 billion
(US$5.6 million) for the Government, and almost the same level for private
customers, equal to about 18 and 7 months of billing, respectively. SBEE's
financial problems will be addressed following the independent audit of
its 1980 accounts, and the review of its accounting procedures and finan-
cial management, planned for implementation under the Water/Sanitation
Engineering Project, which was approved by the Executive Directors in June
1981.
Bank Role
71.       The Bank Group's objectives in the power sectors of Benin and
Togo are to:
(i)    help both countries plan the development of their generation,
transmission and distribution facilities to meet the rapid in-
crease in power demand, reduce their dependence on imported power
through development of domestic hydro resources, and extend elec-
tric service to larger segments of the population;
(ii)    help strengthen existing institutions and rationalize organiza-
tion of the power sector, and improve overall financial and techni-
cal management of CEB, CEET and SBEE: and
(iii)    strengthen cooperation in the power sector between the two countries.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
72.       The planned Nangbeto project is a regional undertaking by Benin
and Togo to develop the hydroelectric and irrigation potential of the Mono
River, which forms the border between them for 100 km. from the Atlantic
coast northwards. The interest in the project dates back to 1964 when a
study of the hydroelectric potential of the Mono River was carried out
by consultants Sofrelec of France. In 1976, CEB entrusted the updating
of Sofrelec's study to Electro-consult of Italy. This new study led to
identification of the Nangbeto site and preparation of a pre-feasibility
study for a multipurpose hyroelectric, flood control, and irrigation develop-
ment project for Benin and Togo. At that time, however, project implementa-
tion was judged premature. The power component did not seem justified
considering the relatively small power requirements of these countries,
which at the time could be met more economically from diesel plants or
imported power from Ghana. In 1978 UNDP agreed to finance a feasibility
study assessing the hydroelectric potential alone; IDA was appointed as
executing agency. The feasibility study was carried out by consultants
Electrowatt/Sogreah (Switzerland/France).



- 18 -
73.       A meeting of potential donors was held in Paris in June 1980
to review the results of the feasibility study. The meeting concluded that:
(i)    the construction of a 63MW hydroplant at Nangbeto, producing
148GWh annually, based on a concrete buttress dam, was
technically feasible;
(ii)    at a total estimated cost of about US$120 million, it was the
least-cost solution compared to thermal power alternatives to
satisfy electricity demand of Benin and Togo beginning in 1986;
and therefore
(iii)    further project preparation was warranted.
74.       During the June 1980 donors meeting, the Association and the
French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) indicated that they would consi-
der financing the necessary detailed engineering studies and preparation
of bidding documents for the construction of the Nangbeto hydroelectric
scheme. A financing agreement between France and CEB was signed on February
6, 1981, and in March 1981 FAC made available to CEB FF 4,500,000 (US$0.9
million equivalent) to cover part of the detailed engineering studies and
bidding document preparation. In February 1981, IDA made available to the
Governments of Togo and Benin two advances of US$400,000 each under the
Project Preparation Facility. Under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, technical services for detailed engineering and bidding
document preparation were negotiated with Electrowatt/Sogreah in December
1980, at a fixed contract price equivalent to US$1.5 million. The studies
and the draft bidding documents have been reviewed by CEB and the Association
and been found acceptable. A second donors meeting is scheduled for mid-
October 1981 to review the final project documents and determine a tenta-
tive financing plan.
75.       The proposed Engineering and Technical Assistance Project would
finance studies to complete preparation of the Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme.
It would be the Association's first operation in the power sector in Benin
and Togo. The project was appraised in February 1981. Negotiations were
held in August 1981 with a Beninese delegation headed by H.E. B. Ohouens,
Minister of Industry and Energy, and a Togolese delegation headed by H.E.
Y. Grunitsky, the Ambassador to Washington. There is no Staff Appraisal
Report. Annex III contains supplementary project data. IBRD Map 15690
shows the location of the main power centers in Benin and Togo.
Project Description
76.       The proposed project would consist of:
(i) assistance to CEB in completing the engineering design studies
for the Nangbeto hydroelectric scheme, including additional geo-
logical investigations; hydraulic model tests; assistance in
monitoring and evaluating the studies through a panel of indepen-
dent experts; assistance in preparation of tender documents,
prequalification of contractors and suppliers, and bid evaluation;
and preparation of a plan for resettlement of the population
expected to be displaced by the proposed construction works;



- 19 -
(ii) assessment of the organization, management, finances and train-
ing/recruitment needs of CEB, CEET and SBEE, together with a
comprehensive plan for meeting them, and a study for the integra-
tion of CTL into Togo's power system;
(iii) audits of CEB and CEET FY80 accounts by independent auditors
(audit of SBEE accounts is to be financed separately under the
Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Credit);
(iv) assistance to CEB, CEET, and SBEE through coordinated tariff
studies, to review their tariff policies to take account of devel-
opments in the power sectors of Benin and Togo;
(v) assistance to CEB, CEET and SBEE in strengthening their planning
capabilities through technical studies covering:
(a)  master plans for distribution of electric power in the
cities of Cotonou and Lome, including identfication of pri-
ority works;
(b)  survey of potential hydroelectric resources, including identi-
fication and ranking of priority sites; and
(c)  a master plan for development of power generation and
transmission in Benin and Togo, taking into consideration
possible regional interconnection and results of the planned
hydroelectric survey.
Project Cost and Financing
77.       The total cost of the proposed project (net of taxes and duties
from which it would be exempt) is estimated at US$5.0 million equivalent,
of which US$4.7 million is foreign exchange. Consultants services for
detailed engineering studies and assistance in procurement preparation
are estimated to cost US$1.5 million for 150 man-months, including all
travel and related consultants' expenses. This represents an average of
US$10,000 per man-month, which is in line with IDA's experience in West
Africa for this type of studies. The remaining general studies, estimated
to require 200 man-months of consultants services, have also been estimated
to cost US$10,000 per man-month, for a total cost of US$2.0 million. Geolo-
gical investigations, to be sub-contracted by the consultants, are estimated
to cost US$0.7 million. Price contingencies are estimated at US$0.8 million.
78.       The proposed Credits totalling US$3.8 million (including US$800,000
for refinancing the PPF advances) would cover about 72% of total project
costs. The remaining costs (US$1.2 million) are covered by the FAC grant
to CEB (US$0.9 million) and by contributions of CEB, CEET and SBEE to cover
local costs (US$0.3 million). CEB has provided assurances as to the availa-
bility of local funds and similar assurances from SBEE and CEET will be
included in the financing agreements to be concluded between these agencies
and CEB (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b) and para. 2 of the Schedule,
respectively).



- 20 -
79.       The entire proceeds of the two Credits would be made available
to CEB. US$1.5 million (to cover the cost of the detailed engineering studies
and bidding document preparation for the Nangbeto Project) would be on-
lent to CEB by the Governments for a term of 20 years, including a three-
year grace period, at an interest rate of 11.6% per annum. US$1.45 million
(to cover the cost of general studies for the power sectors of the two
countries) would be passed on to CEB as a grant. The remaining Credit pro-
ceeds(US$0.85 million), to finance general studies of the two national
power utilities, would also be passed on by CEB as grants to CEET (US$0.51
million) and SBEE (US$0.34 million). The amounts of the IDA Credits corres-
pond for Benin to 50% of the funds to be employed directly by CEB plus
100% of the funds to be used ultimately by SBEE; and for Togo, 50% of the
funds to be employed directly by CEB plus 100% of the funds to be used
ultimately by CEET. On this basis, the Credit to the Government of Benin
would be for US$1,815,000 equivalent and to the Government of Togo for
US$1,985,000 equivalent.l/ Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
the Governments and CEB, and of financing agreements between CEB and CEET
and SBEE respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credits
(draft Development Credit Agreements, Section 5.01).
80.       CEB will act as coordinator of the Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project, and will be responsible for processing and channelling
all disbursement requests to the Association (para. 84). The proposed alloca-
tion of the Credits is shown in the following table:
Allocation of IDA Credits (including contingencies)
(US$ thousands equivalent)
CEB    CEET   SBEE   Total
(i) Detailed engineering studies and   1,500          -       -   1,500-
technical assistance - Nangbeto
(ii) Studies for improvement of the          100      170    120    340
organization and management of
the power sector institutions,
including their financial
management
(iii) Audits                                   60      120      -     230
(iv) Tariff Studies                          110      110    110    330
(v) Master plans for distribution for        -       110    110    220
Cotonou and Lom6, and priority
programs
(vi) Inventory and ranking of hydro-         840       -       -     840
power sites in Togo and Benin
(vii) Master plan for power generation        340       -       -     340
and transmission
2,950     510    340  3,800
*J Includes refinancing of $800,000 under PPF advances
1/  BENIN:    $    750,000 CEB loan    TOGO:         $    750,000 CEB loan
$    725,000 CEB grant                $    725,000 CEB grant
$    340,000 SBEE grant               $    510,000 CEET grant
$  1,815,000                          $  1,985,000



- 21 -
Retroactive Financing
81.       Retroactive financing (estimated at up to US$475,000 from the
Benin Credit and up to US$645,000 from the Togo Credit) is recommended
to cover expenditures incurred since February 1, 1981 for preparatory studies
to allow appraisal of the Nangbeto project to proceed as scheduled. These
studies consist of distribution Master Plans for Cotonou and Lome including
identification of priority works; and the management, financial and tariff
studies, and audits, all part of the proposed Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project (para. 80, items (ii) through (vii)). CEB has arranged
with CEET and SBEE for prefinancing of these studies.
Project Execution
82.       CEB would have overall responsibility for project execution under
the terms of a Project Agreement with the Association. CEET and SBEE would
be responsible for direct implementation of their respective parts of the
project under financing agreements with CEB, which would spell out the
studies to be performed under the responsibility of the two institutions
(draft Development Credit Agreements, Section 3.01(b), and the Schedule
to the draft Project Agreement).
83.       As indicated previously (para. 74), the consortium of consultants
which carried out the feasibility study for the Nangbeto hydroelectric
scheme is also responsible for the detailed engineering studies and prepara-
tion of tender documents. To assure an independent expert review of the
detailed engineering designs, CEB would employ a panel of experts with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Associa-
tion (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)). For the remaining project
studies, CEB, CEET and SBEE would also employ power utility consultants
and experts with qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
acceptable to the Association. Independent auditors for the remaining studies
would also be acceptable to the Association (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.02(b).
Disbursements
84.       Proceeds of each of the IDA Credits would be disbursed to cover:
(i) refinancing of amounts due under the PPF advances;
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for the parts of the project to
be carried out by CEET and SBEE; and
(iii) 50% of foreign expenditures for the parts of the project to be
carried out by CEB.
Disbursements for (ii) and (iii) would be fully documented. Disbursements
to cover CEB expenditures would be made pari passu from the two Credit
accounts. The Governments would designate CEB as authorized signatory for
purposes of preparing and submitting withdrawal applications under the
proposed Credits (draft Development Credit Agreements, Section 2.08).



- 22 -
Benefits and Risks
85.       The benefits of the proposed Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project would essentially be:
(i)    to obtain pre-construction designs and tender documents which
meet the Association's requirements, and which would permit sound
offers to be obtained in the international competitive bidding
planned for the Nangbeto hydroelectric project;
(ii) to further prepare the Nangbeto hydroelectric project by streng-
thening the institutions in the power sectors of Benin and Togo
which would have ultimate responsibility for managing the project;
and
(iii) to plan the efficient development of an electric system covering
both countries, with optimum use of local energy sources.
86.       The major risk is that the project being prepared might prove
to be premature if the anticipated growth in the demand for power does
not materialize. However, as far as the present Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project is concerned, there are no significant technical risks
associated with the proposed studies. Nevertheless, CEB has accepted the
Association's suggestion that the detailed design of the Nangbeto hydro
power system should be monitored by a panel of experts of international
repute selected in agreement with the Association, and whose services are
financed under the proposed Credits. The panel is to be constituted by
experts in dam foundations, design of power dams, design of electrical
systems, and socio-environmental aspects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Development Credit Agreements between the People's
Republic of Benin and the Republic of Togo and the Association, the draft
Project Agreement between the Coumunaute Electrique du Benin (CEB) and
the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
88.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreements of special
interest are mentioned in the text and referred to in Section III of Annex
III to this Report. A special condition of Credit effectiveness would be
the execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Governments and
CEB, and of Financing Agreements between CEB and CEET and SBEE respectively,
with terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 79).
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credits would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credits.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.,
October 8, 1981



Annex I (a)
- 24-                                            Page1
UNIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEgAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            112.6                                MOST RECENT            LOW INCOKE             MIDDLE INCOME
ACRICULTURAL      10.2              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$                   90.0       120.0    250.0                  238.3                   794.2
ENEIGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      39.9        54.0      67.5                 70.5                    707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
OPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOWANDS)  2049.8        2645.6   3425.0
URBAN POPULATION (PlRCENT OF TOTAL) 9.5         12.6      13.9                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIOIS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        19.0
YEARl STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2110
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KK.                       17.7        23.5      30.4                 27.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.6       264.0    326.7                  73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        45.3      46.0                 44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                         53.3        52.0      51.3                 52.4                    51.2
65 YES. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.7       2.7                  2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.6       2.9                  2.6                      2.8
URBAN                              5.8         5.4       3.9                  6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.5         49.2      48.7                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.5         21.9      18.5                 19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.3       3.3                  3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USES (PERCENT OF MAIRIED WOKEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PMODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          95.0       101.0      97.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRMNTS)                     93.0        96.0      98.0                 90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          51.0        53.0      51.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0        15.0      13.0                 17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4)  DRRTALITY RATE    41.0        32.2      25.4                 27.3                    20.2
IEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT RIRTH.(YEARS)   37.2         42.4      46.7                 45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      21.0                 23.9                     27-4
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.0                 55.0                     74.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      16.0                 18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        14.0        ..                 26.2
URBAN                               ..        83.0        ..                 63.5
RURAL                               ..         1.0        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         23031.3    28447.1  26883.3                31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NUSING PERSON          ..      2860.1   3035.9                3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            747.6       846.9    735.5                1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                            538.1       231.6    393.9                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                            779.5      2185.5   1134.6                1745.2                  3543.2
AlltISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        30.2      17.7
HOUSINI
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMLER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL .L 
URBAN
RUNAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



Annex I (a)
- 25 -                                            Page 2
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEBAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 26.0         40.0      60.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  38.0        55.0       78.0                  70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                15.0        25.0       42.0                 50.1                      79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          5.0      12.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   2.0         8.0       18.0                  13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0        7.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  13.0           4.1       6.0                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0         44.0      55.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                          23.0         26.0      31.0/d                25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         8.0         11.0/e      ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
- POPULATION                          1.0          4.6       5.4                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.2         32.1      46.5                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.1                   1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL,
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0          0.8       0.3                  - 2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2           0.4        ..                   1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1048.9       1285.7    1572.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   45.4         45.1      44.2                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              54.0         49.7      46.4                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0         11.8      15.5                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2         48.6      45.9                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                 57.1         54.3      52.0                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                               45.5         43.1      40.0                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0       1.1                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.4/c
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7Tc          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.57           ..        .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.87           ..        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      84.0                  84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      82.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Population;  /d 1975;  Ie 1973.
May, 1981



- 26 -                                                                                      Annex 1(a)
Pa.e 3
DEFlI"TIONtS OF SOCIAL, ItiCATORS
naooonallyooepaeahle  heceoco of th-el-ackof                                                              , ~        e d.l.   Th.edat. ars        n~
thele-o  -tfol so dec-ohe oroe-  ci egnit-de,  ndod-boo   -oodo, and tar -tooteoan cl-ndiff.... setenutre
Tfoenofrreor groopoae   linhesan              ,..otpttupfohoeuhetoto,dl                  totr    roonhoehthghboog   ttsnt-totyto
oe(ortt  of therootonts  Otignop  tea   ote fo   thtitdl ao E    t11:  Eoo  oh btonaregd1of r-.ni.e  aetna thA      0tene  opnso  teaatelln                     tfd
and tenouotfore.oeutoonstat teeartooednneletcneoerege    ofosgdtoto                    no iote   .h-teenroge  7-.oternlyuo-ullcedarc..                heol. eo
fntai - fonl oorf ot are  o-n-ictog land are  end on:aoodatt-re.                                 -ob-n  end r-rl) 3 iided hr fhie-  reto-i-eoobor of hospital baos
Agyilolt-nl -tnE.      n   oftoblnra  ari  used ornyotarly  orpnaenpttlbeI   uln   ndpoot   oeo   n   OI11lr  hos,                                                             a   e    r
ion onope .  enNants. na(ort anf blohan gatdrnsor no I it  ollro; 1970data,           habIt tiecyn  centpo    NyepitulinreenatlisbonoI 97nmdtnoly  staffe
hyat  Iee   one phyttolar. -rth  leeeteon dict~ Pr Ot Ielytt-
(US$t011c   t) -IP-10cpIetnlonse   coo  nre                           oa    i-                   flu otr  antto  in lIa..   tocal hoepitl,orcn   inlde   et
ouaodb  cs    -onoi        oho,f a-  -Wordno  One   177-79bss    19th.                             end tadi,,a  c-nnne rot pr--non  ifonffed hty   phyobia    ho  b 
171C. an  S1919ac.                                                                                     ced at eat is-to, nonse.  d-fe, m-) etioh offerinptin   a:,--
da-o  ant poontdeelt s.i-   range of nedhoeI teotliasa.    Ftnos
tttRif CON(tSLTION PER CAPITA - Aoncal  -ocpt-cn ciof             er   c   noogy Ico ...lpoparore P                               hosptal   Onld   Wipioiegoos hspitals,
endlitin,  ptnooo.nauya   dcathydc-   niireIcd tonnrmoeo                                       ado-n1lhnspolz.looeIcr_u_clb.sita leeoasod .os                     ..td _aernly
timy) inoogotoccloaarrn  po   ipta.(90  1970." adI                                                   --- eosa    Spiptcllod hospinalo aeIttlaed only odrttl
total Pocilation. foid-Toan   obcad)-d   f (cly 1; 0997, 1970, ocd 1979                            tottlnl
date.                                                                                                 eog  hoot of Ho-ehbld (roroone reth hocannoid  - t-nl, -bst, and n-rl-
tO rn_n  dof oiniono  of -nb-tra    ar af_e    c.....railifp  of data                                and chon  ca_on o.te.   0  _oondo  no lodge -       n0oa n_0beinodedin
_. __ _       1997. 1970. any 1779 dana.                                                   the tocoobtid ton  Innato   _opoa_t
yojoio    oe ttr 2O -ct.. nonlty re -to  .s.nia   o          b ..e dsno   a19a0             000-0 peddpres
len.S   adfsl   i teierfny bib-ho   at, 77.1. pay.    Tho pat-.                                    tenc  oe   otl roat                  d-e1in tty.i  itnin   qutters  -a-ar1eag
Eerr  irittt cyrae   inhone                                           ineaeaesotgidn    too!oe.ohn   nd rural deall irsrseiey
fortiloo I rodiog noi- moo e    1r and past fonily pl..nringpeDfCrAaIoN
cod Orl  _tyn dno  fco P'oj _cicn                                                                Adjisted Lrolnttoi-a
h-onlan-r op...an-i    - Iniaaint    cc o                  'onheo ...    no g. t  since.Pnern ethool - total, sle aoi female - Gross onoa, e,elssd femal
the,  loot1 refe   Io -oo   to cho dauh rat, end a..lsoti ge   orotar-sooieofal  ge  at the pointy (ca  as pareoag                                                             ..f se ..is
Ib    I  ach,en-d only afe0    erii-       ee   ds-llne tpoar sho-ee opento                                          or ly inolodes  hildeo   ge  6-11
oho replacenenolnl  fit  ot-orooan-onae                       her tarOt aeer   on..n ban adlieted for different Iseths of ptisry  edioseica.; for
cf esen   oples isoltan-cl   The staionary  poplan ionsla  0                                  toony.e..th .it          e  edooto  atoien    a  esosd 100 p-_sa
eocndothhssofna10enaotroeteooTIroPoyclanico                                                   inocos   .PopIs ert  ha,loso          n  the offtie   aa.sI age
to one yea  2000, and nte --t  of d20010  of f-noit-  tots to neplo-                               bant.d-or  -toni-oal.e    o   fem&ale   - Cmae ,s shoe;  -modery
neon- le-oedl.                                                                               ed.ioetn-    PP~.t..tootq.ioe   a  beet..Int  Yer  of epprond pti.eytaacota
Yea atetionr   ooa  o   onoce       h   enoe  ca  oeypnlno                                              p-oideegert   anotior.., or- neah-rosoe                                  "Itntio a  P.Oei
eL-e baa bean reahed.                                                                                  ..illy of 121.t if years of ega;  -otrepooda.e narsen    eatIly
Pen an-   m.-PId-pa .ccato   pnt..e.cloee   (lIt h-rt-ne) of                                         V.to   = -lnol   .ro .mei ip-ra- of  -soonero   - no..aInoaI Ioatteatea
total ara 1967. 091 7ad0(   o                                                                        i-olade 1e-hsi-e.hdorol.rtbt prgrem   ahIob opers.t.e id sd -
Peono.trolialend -  Co..r.teda tcnE. gco ioiolnr-laInd                                                   -clyp-oasfdpa-rtmenoetosYionnto
on  960lfi, 1977 ard 1970daa                                                                   Pn0tl-teeobe  ratio -n           y, r. ao  ae-oda-n    Intel staeeeerild
"P'la tonga  toioon   (pe--onI   Chotada   (i-lW  -eer)   - cking-igs (11-                                primarty end senodary lenale dotded by sam-r  oftapreooh
60, years ).  d0 retired          Y..  .. yaoadco-n)        peonae    fni-erP000-                        ...r.spotdtolsnel.'
1cotco (1960. 19,7. end  9197 dane.                                                                  gdo1t ltteroyr -        reoet7- L.iotetetsd,u1t  (eble to reed sad arias)
Ioaato   ..oeh late foco-eno  - totl  - A         Rnoa  h  -rnors   of total sod-                  asprta-tge  of total odo,tpo1             lno     gsd 10 faeet  se   ver
perpnpoa_i_n  Eon 1951-tO, 1960-71,0 nd1970-79.
Popot.ietn bosch Rao '(goorono   -, orbon-   -il groth -1-r  of orba  popo-                        CONSUMPT!ION
(anion   f-n 1950-hf, 1960-7i. And 1970-79                                                         Passae-  Care fret thoaedrelno)-Pesee    asnmrs    ae
populetoct; ifti, 1907.-  bicc.1979thdo.o..dil itay...os-irles.
C-ode leanth Mote (n      houacrd9- On-1a  dants pen  tho.....da of cid-yece                        tRdhi R..einsosp oybtha....dAlllaio   -01  types of receiver  for rle
rpaio;1960lOO , and1 -I97 9 dana.                                                             bond-    ssn    Mssa    atn   a   baedtf po              iltto;aocs   a
Or.aa ter-d-oIt-o R toe   -tyna           bnhno  aghooreosa.            sill boat Jn                    !ictea o_ atse  nooitt    a  to f-y -ra ab: rgisrt-ins of radio
lte,o-men...oad-in- perIod if aeaeinrspe                         og-aPeifir fa-                      ossasnoff t; date!ftroott Y...synomog.rhaip
oil lop rates; ostoe lip  fine-year ananegaseo.::ding in 1960, 1970, end 1079.            scat... ooieore   abolished ttotg
Paeilllaoito-oieotrn.tc...alinboesss(-           __oal.oa _anf a_npa.tr                   Pi Iat               lb.e.ra,  -rrhasoetlation-T-   reoin-e  ftrhbnsd.etsea
of bireh- -oool d-ientc   coden acapite  of  -aicoa.l family PIat..lIg p-ogtse.                      g..sarel poblir Petobame  popalerto-; aaide lite....d  V.. ratatear
FamIly Pla-oioe-Oatafrreo    f seriad noaI - Perreeag   ofeared                                         iooaetesnd  in Yse b.    netsr_etion of TVse  se .i sffmta.
.il carie  co...n  itb,  saeeagcp-Naeto i.Cf 'dal  gaIrI                                                                                 totoee  neepapar',  dsiode  a  erode
poblitoetto   denote d primarily to  --todieg  geosre  ese    It i.to n adered
FO0D AND NUTRIoTION                                                                                       no he 'deily'  if in sopsans at loeso lfoot rIse    a
Indee of Food yrod-cto eoayo (1969-71-10O0)   Iodea of p-r capita .e.....                            CInema onoa  AedateH pa  CY_t   a   ea-ao    mth    s to
pnd.to  o l   od   cndnr.   Po.c-o ettesar  an   feed end                                  n     ton  soddrtgten         er  ieoladisgdedmiesl...stodrive-ia  lieeea
is   notod       y-po  bao7a.  CosedIitte   c_o    nisony goodo(g.  agarer                           end eabile  -elts.
icnradof  ,a,,I oh ih ant edi~ble end              I-nonuneos(..cffer and
0    0    olded).  Iggoego-  pr-d-ttico  ofot  toty  absd o                                     iC
natIonal  __enge prd... poir  oigos  1916                1970,..ad 1979 dote.                      Total Lbo- Po-ca itbia..ata) - too-mtely soi-t pseam. ise1adi.g
Pen cipitasnI         fclota(sro nO titneqi-oneta     Co..paed foo-                                  arme  for.... cd   e,employd.bat ...oladingbaeae,sods                       0.
onoy oq,icio   of nI-odapye    nileble in onatr   e   opt                                        oeoe    ooetto l  ae.   ifinitie =                    is netoat...      hes
re_  it.oalha   crlsrepiedoai .oodo,..n. isponoP,sestot. toparble; 196O. 1070 end 1t79 deta.
onono,ao  ohoog-no (ool-k.  tN-  aoppl iea a-1Iod  ania  feed  aed,ymoe(aosn        emleo  foro  as penng  of   tota  laborfoo
-dan   ote  fo d or  o    --ocesco, and (ose.n....       hoto.   aair                     Aerioc-tor  toapat I -lao    rsifrmn,forestry  toeagam
000   eo   a  mnd by yAO hate d on_ofyaioogi-al nee ds fon norma  ati-                   fishing as p-enecege of total laben forns; j960. 19ff0 sad'1934 da.-
cloy and health ocosidering  annononmonno( netc~~p--acc, body  Iegre   grP                -aty (peroson) - Cabot fnoato   iig    oerota   easte
and a... an  thoti--  of  ,pcyulanio    so   loig   7pntnPo   asod 1serrtiy,cIee   ndpas   pensaso   aa  lbrfrs   96
hooeol   ocl;i9itS   177   nd197   aa.190d o  1939                                                    nd data.
Pe r     I't o l of poone.i (arom   per dsp) - Protet   ---rn   of Pen  -pinetriiatn    ieinre    total   ae  ae                                  .am          ..n........m. 0
ne  spply of fnod per day.  Net eapply nO food J. deftited as abm.-   Re-                       eniiyaase-te                     ste,ml,sd femei  tato- f..rres.
qoit__nn   fcr. al   --inrtt   -tbliehed by 7910 pronide for  ini-i                                peno-tagas of to-l, sle end femal  ~pplatita of all ages r-peetiesly;
elcoerce of 60 g.a.. of ..nt   p-onrin pro day And 2I gnos of animal aod                           1960, 1979. end igO7  dens.  Thass see based on Pin's partitipatlm    rees
ruise opooin, of  !bioh I0 Sam   oboold he-1                 a Ina  pnt., Tbhass seesd-            eaflant ig age-se.ar tiret  of ohs  oieno,end long tine r-d.A
onm  - oteina   nnngE fo  the otrld. ynp-a-d hrAC in thr Third                               fo...osin    peedes-y Pai       at   fpoaaioifr13ed'                         Mna
W-oO   oo  ho- ey  lOtl-t;. 10071  ad (9,77 data.                                                  to  the tonal Iahb- f--r
nior  Oto  onima   a nd pu1ara in gr-as Pen dey; 1960-65, 1970 and 1977 dot.                  INClIN   DlTISt"RIB7I0
Child (aaes (-o I   r lito hate loot tho..sand) - Annual deaths Po  ho....nd in                    -Pare.e.. o..f Prinate Jnom   ihoth to  -e1, end bind) - iR-ei-sd   pniobest
agE. group 1-4 poars, nocildre,       nti  age. g.oty; fot noond-nelpingron-                         5fperoer, rirh-s  20 parornt, poores t P0 ponoao. aed Psre t              f "paF-sm
or~os data deriord  loon cite  ouhis; 09h, 1977 en  1979 daa                                   fh_aeele
Lie"peoenpn   Birth (coco                      ..000   ober o Eano.  .f life re-ining             The foliostg  a in" te   r   "Irapromt    -esie   o   on y isnals
enhno,190t17 t            oOh  .  19729 data.                                                         sod shoold be `e-rpntad sith rooe.en-bl  cantine.
"neo'fn oY it  I oa tho -d    Aatroi deenhe cf infant  under 000 Year                         Etima-d Abeolate P-etly Inro-  Lna(1$pr o is -abs  -e rta 
hen of people (tota.   _rec  and rual  oitI _c              bI       ..rstoaeft                      affordable.
-a-ocoptly (i-oludas   - -t- onfr   asn    suoeee    u                     nottaimt-d              Etaimated tolatine P .... t bois  Laa 1      (PiN..1 P5t oeit, -  tba sad rtars   -
00000  eob ee tot fro   pronsotod honeho lee, spnngs, end ea.tirey.elie) ashRal. rolenive ponely tn-oa  lon-I iso-hid ofiaverge Par r-pit.
of thi .nepecic ~Popolanio-.  Inec-ba-ne   a .pobi I`Persosl lon--  of tobeno...try.ira ab el ta1 deemedfrot                                                     h    aa
fonetoo  sanpsoloaedno   on  tat00  enr  fonaho5eer  e                                     eelinodonsonfrhogbr  oa nbinn    toabdo area.                                  1
......tbleont lieo       pl cenen-      f  uplaho-       toa-   coan end                              ennaral -plti.(rbn-                                    _~   .1  
tiecoleotot  nd  tepoal-snt or aPlt hoot one Inoeno, of hoenetnd                                                                     frnmi  o  tt-            Pt   insn
andaeneeane  h   -anso-hor   sye       fthe  -s  of pit prrs          Mn  also-                                                  Sonaoaalasd Pnnjeti... Dpanarmat
(e   lat (looo..Stay 1981
fcoolooion oar Ohnotoian                   d oca citoidd hy nombr  of prericlog physi-
otao qaliie   Prs aeelo-I school en-       iealply
rcilton00  oni ayrsc     ooloind-rdad  hoyoaenofporiIcg
feaodtoltg-od-atnoaae              nola    aaen            attnnoe



_ 27 -
Annex I (a)
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROITH (7..CURUTT PRICES)
US$ Million   7% of GDP                                                  1975-80
GNP at Market Prices                                     1103.0          103.0                                                    14.7
GDP at Market Prices                                     1070.9          100.0                                                     14.8
Gross Domestic Investment                                 271.4           25.3                                                    24.0
Gross Domestic Saving                                      20.3            1.9
Current Account Balance                                 - 117.8         - 11.0
Exports of Goods, NFS                                     306.1           28.6                                                     16.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                                     526.7           49.2                                                     14.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980                                           Value Added                                Labor Force                       Vl1- AAdA par X_V&Ar
US$ Million                  7            Thousand                   7.                 US$                    7
Agriculture                                              413.5                   43.1              906                    55.7               456.4                  77.4
Indostry, Construction
& Public Works                                          113.2                   11.8              52                      3.2              2176.9                369.2
Government                                               114.1                   11.9               72                     4.4              1584.7                268.7
Commerce and Transport                                   285.9                   29.8              597                    36.7               478.9                  81.2
Other Services                 ,                          32.8                    3.4
GDP at Factor Cost                                   959.5                 100.0             1627                    100.0               589.7                100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
CFFBillion)          7. of GDP      967
J~~F  ~     1980     %  fGP       1976-79
R evenue                                                            32.8        14.6                    15.9
Grants                                                              18.0         8.0                     8.6
Current expenditure                                                 26.7        11.9                    12.5
Investment expenditure                                              29.2        13.0                    11.4
Net lending to State enterprises                                    10.2         4.5                     3.4
Overall deficit (-)                                             -15.1        - 6.7                  - 2.8
External borrowing                                                  14.7          6.5                    4.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                 1976        1977        1976       1979        1980
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    30.6       34.9        39.0        L6.8       65.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           _ 5.5       - 7.6       -10.4       - 8.0      -10.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            31.0       37.5        47.2        60.0       80.8
(Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Qausi Money as 7 of GDP                        22.8        23.1       23.1        24.2       29.2
General Price Index (1974 = 100)                        122.4      132.6       145.6       160.4      177.9
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                     8.2        8.3         9.8        10.2       10.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          -87.1      -38.2       -36.8        23.1      -26.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           1.8       21.0        25.9        27.1       34.7
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rates noted on the following page.
not available



- 28 -
Annex I (a)
Page 5
TRADE, PAYMENTS AND CAIITAL FLOWS
BAACE OY PAYTS                                                                                      21                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-1978. RECORDED)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980                                                             USS Million       .
(us$ Million)
Exports of Goods, NF5                          102.5       146.3       137.2       191.9       242.8                  Cotton                                       8.0         26.1
IMortt  of Goode,  1S                         -241.8      -269.5      -302.6      -379.0      -480.5                  Cocoa Beans                                  3.5         11.4
llsource Gap (deficit   - )                   -139.3      -123.2      -165.4      -187.1      -237.7                  Balm Products                                2.2           7.2
All Other Coiodities                        16.9         55.3
TOTAL                             30.6       100.0
Interest Paymnts (net)                        -  0.8      -  0.8      -  2.2      -  2.8      -  2.8 
Workers  B_ittances                              19.7       26.0        35.8        34.3        42.8
Other Factor (net)                            -  0.4      -  6.5      -  6.6      -  8.1      -  9.5
Net Tranfers                                     54.0        58.1       49.5        32.8        90.0
Balece  o  Current Accounts                   - 66.8      - 4U.4      - 80.9      -110J4    -117.2
Direct Forei4n Investmnt                         6.3         6.5         4.4        10.5        10.9                  EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1980
Bet MLT Borrowing                               23.4        28.4        47.3        57.1        70.0
Capital Grants                                  10.0        10.0        12.0        20.0        25.0                                                                  USS Million
Other Capital (net)                             32.0         1.0         3.0         8.1         7.8                  Public Debt (Disbursed),
Other It_n ne.i.                                  _                                  1.9         1.9                    Inclin  Guaranteed2
Use of Bserves (increaas - - )                -  5.0         0.5        22.2        13.3         1.6                  on-Guarantd Privat  D bt2617
Net Reserves (end year) V                        20.1        20.1        14.1       13.8         8.6                  Total Outstandin8 And Disbursed
Petrolem Imports as 7.
of Total Imports                                5.5         5.0        5.0         5.2          5.3                DEBT. SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Public Debt (Disbursed)
Including Guaranteed                               2.9
E Con-Guaranteed Private Debt
cum   B &TS (ClAP PEE U55)                                                                                           intel Gutatanding *nd Disbursed
Year               Period Average         End of Period
1976                    239                    248                                                                    BRD/IDA LENDING  August 31, 1981
1977                    248                    2335BE                                                                                                                     
1978                    226                    209                                                                                                                IR            D
1979                    212                    201                                                                                                                   (US$ million)
1980                    210                    226
1961                    270                     -                                                                    Outstanding and Disbursed                    _ -         5897
Undisbursed                                 - -          19.60
Outstanding Including Undimbursed           _ _         7855
1   ForeiSn aets  of Central Bank
E Estimtw
/  Preli iery estimate of ratio of debt service to exports of goods  nd services
Mt avileble



Annex I (b)
- 29 -                                         Page 1
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOGO                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              56.8                                      MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       16.2                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       80.0        160.0      350.0                 238.3                     794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           23.0         66.3     117.4                   70.5                    707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       1499.0       1956.0    2420.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       9.8         13.1       19.2                  17.5                     27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             4.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              13.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            26.4         34.4      42.6                   27.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         116.2        117.8     145.7                   73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              44.0         45.3      46.2                   44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                              53.4         52.0      51.1                   52.4                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        2.6          2.7       2.7                    2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.2          2.7       2.4                    2.6                      2.8
URBAN                                   5.2          5.6       6.6                    6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          50.5         48.1      47.8                   46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          26.5         21.6       18.3                  19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.3          3.2       3.2                    3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               99.0        102.0      80.0                   89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
C:ALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        93.0         95.0      90.0                  90.2                      92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               44.0         46.0      48.0                   52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            11.0         12.0      13.0                   17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          41.0         31.3       25.4                  27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2         42.5      46.9                   45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         17.0      16.0                   23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                    ..           .,      49.0                   55.0                     74.3
RURAL                                    ..          5.0      10.0                   18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          1.0      15.0                   26.2
URBAN                                    ..          4.0      36.0                   63.5
RURAL                                    ..          1.0      12.0                   20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              35756.1     27942.9   17984.4                 31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          5341.0/c    4170.6    1996.5                  3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 598.0/c      643.5/d   669.6                 1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                                 11I.0/c      155.2/d   240.7                  272.8                    423.0
RURAL                                1166.07w    1435.57T  1139.5                  1745.2                   3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         24.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..       5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          5.8
URBAN                                    ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..



Annex I (b)
- 30 -                                              Page 2
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHtEET
TOGO                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
-MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)=
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  44.0         69.0     102.0                   56.4                      73.7
ItALE                 63.0         95.0      129.0                  70.7                      96.8
FEMALE                24.0         42.0       75.0                  50.1                      79.0
SECSONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          7.0      25.0                   10.0                      16.2
MALE                   4.0         11.0       39.0                  13.6                      25.3
FEMLLE                 1.0          3.0       12.0                   6.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  10.0/e         10.0        8.0                   8.0                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATI(
PRIMARY                             63.0         58.0      58.0                   46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                             ..         25.0      41.0                   25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         10.0/r       15.9       18.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          3.7       6.0                    2.9                      32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.5         20.4     195.5                   32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       3.0                    1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.0          7.0       3.1                    2.8                      20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2             ..        1.0                   1.2                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        687.1        856.7      996.5
FE.IALE (PERCENT)                   39.2         41.3      40.5                   34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               79.5         73.3       67.6                  80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.1         10.9      14.5                    8.6                     17.5
PARTUCIFPTION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 45.8         43.8       41.2                  41.7                      37.2
MALE                                  56.8         52.3       49.8                  54.3                      47.1
FhMALE                                35.3         35.6      32.8                   29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUITION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
KECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTh'iATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (I;S PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ,,           .      243.0                  136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     118.0                   84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     121.0                   99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..     121.0                   61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW AESOLUTE
POVEITY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      42.0                   39.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   68.8
INot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   19b2;  /d Government hospital establishments;  /e Including teacher training.
May, 1981



Annex I (b)
- 31 -                                     Page 3
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ million               Annual rae  of growth(, current prices)
GNP at market prices                  1,052.8        99.1              11.3
GDP at market prices                  1,062.4       100.0             1i.4
Gross domestic investments              272.8        25.7               9.9
Gross domestic savings                  141.9        13.3              17.5
Current account balance                -172.3       -16.2               -
Exports (C + NFS)                       384.3        36.2              22.2
Imports (G + NFS)                       536.2        50.5              17.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value added               Labor force           Value added per worker
US$ million                 Thousand                  US$            i
Agriculture                             249.5        26.0         750         79.0         332.7        33.L
Industry, construction and
public works                          195.2        20.4          24          3.0       8,133.3       808.2
Government                              107.1        11.2          39          4.1       2,746.1       272.9
Commerce and transport                  322.8        33.7          67          7.0       4,817.9       478.8
Other services                           81.4         8.7          70          6.9       1,162.8       115.6
GDP at factor costs               956.0       100.0        950         100.0      1,006.3        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CFA billion            of GDP
1-975     1980      1975       1980
Revenue                               3         62.0      24.9       27.8
Tax receipts                       31.       52.0      23.7       23.3
Other                               1.5      10.0       1.2        4.5
-Exenditures                            ,        66.4      26.5       29,8
Current budget                     22.       54.0      17.02
Investment budget                   9.1       7.4       6.8        3.3
Other                               3.3       5.0       2.6        2.2
Special accounts                       0.3       -          O.2       -
Annex budgets                          0.3       1.0        O.2       0.4
Overall deficits                      -2.7      -5,4      -2.0       -2.4
Memo item:
GDP current prices                 132.3     223.1     100.0      100.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES              1973      1974                 1976      1977       1978      1979      1980 L/
(Billion CFAF outstanding end period)
Money and quasi money                 15.9      30.5      28.2       41.2      48.1       64.9      73.8       68.7
Bank credit to public sector          -1.9      -2.5        1.4       1.2       1.9        6.2      11.2        6.4
Bank credit to private sector         13.3      16.3      24.6       32.2      44.6       51.6      57.8      59.6
(Percentage or index number)
Money and Quasi money as % of GDP    17.5       22.6      21.3       27.8      25.2       32.5      34. s      --
Consumer price index (1975   100)    75.1       84.7     100.0      11L.6     136.7      137.3     147.6     155.3
Annual percentage change in
Consumer price index                -        12.7      18.o       11.6      22.4        0.2       7.5
Bank credit to public sector        -       -31.5        -       -14.3      58.3      326.3      80.6
Bank credit to private sector       -        22.5      51.3       29.7      38.4       15.6      13.3
j  As of end September 1980.



- 32 -
ANNEX I (b)
TRADE PAYnNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                  Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                         1975       1976       1977          8       1979       1980
TU-S millon)7
Exports (G 4 NFS)                          141.2      158.9      195.1      257.5      250.9      384.3
Imports (G * NFS)                         -242.9    -212.5    -300.4    -519.9    -524.8    -536.2
Resource gap  (deficit   -)               -101.7      -53.6    -105.3    -262.4    -273.9    -151.9
Interest payments (net)                     -1.9       -3.3       -5.7      -24.3      -29.0      -27.6
Workers' remittances                         3.3        5.4        5.3        5.3        7.1        7.1
Other factor payments (net)                -14.0       -8.4      -13.0      -13.2      -23.8      -28.6
Net transfers                               18.7       16.7       20.3       22.1       28.6       28.6
Balance on current account                 -95.6      -43.2      -98.4    -272.5    -290.9    -172.4
Direct foreign investments                   4.8        6.3        8.1        8.8       10.5        9.5
Net MLT borrowing                           50.5       55.6      113.8      246.o      290.0      195.7
Capital grants                              19.1       15.0       15.0       25.7       26.2      35.7
Other capital (net)                         14.0      -16.7      -32.5        4.0      -31.4     -42.8
Other items, n.e.i.                         15.4      -15.0      -31.7        4.4      -33.3     -45.7
Change in reserves (increase a -)           -8.2       -2.0       25.6      -16.4       29.0      20.0
Net reserves (end year) j/                  38.8       58.1       33.7       50.4       28.8       51.4
Petrol imports as % total imports            -          -          9.0       11.4       11.9      23.9
Petrol exports as % total exports            -          -          -         20.6       22.0       32.2
/ Net foreign assets of the Central Bank
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (average 1975-80. recorded)
TS$ million
Phosphate                                                 97.1            41.7
Cocoa beans                                               40.5            17.4
Coffee                                                    23.3            10.0
All other commodities                                     71.9             30.9
Total                                         232.8            100.0
EXTEKNAL DEBT, becember 31, 1980
JS$ million
Public debt (disbursed) incl. guaranteed                 869.6
Non-guaranteed private debt                                -
Total outstanding and disbursed                          988.o
EXCHANGE RATES (CFAF per us$)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 S                          Year            Period average        End of Period
1973                 223                   230
Public debt, inel. guaranteed             36.3        1974                  241                   222
Non-guaranteed private debt                -          1975                  214                   224
Total outstanding and disbursed            -          1976                  239                   248
1977                 246                   235
1978                 226                   209
Ratio of debt service to X (G * NFS)               1979                  212                  201
1980                 210                   226
1981                 270
IBRD/IDA LENDING, August 31, 1981 (US$ milli4n)
IBRD /   IDA
Outstanding and disbursed               43.5     48.10
Undisbursed                              -        36.45
Outstanding including undisbursed    43.5        84.55
/  $53.0 million of which $3.5 million CIMAO loan
to Togo and $49.5 million loan to CIMAO with the
guarantee of Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of August 31, 1981)
Credit
Number        Year   Borrower    Purpose             Amount  1/  Undisbursed
(US$ million)
Three Credits fully disbursed                         14.80
415-BEN       1973   Benin        Roads              20.80 2/      3.06
583-BEN       1975   Benin        Rural Education    4.00          1.54
and Training
716-BEN       1977   Benin        Technical Assis-   1.70          0.19
tance
717-BEN       1977   Benin        Feeder Roads        5.50         O.o3
746-BEN       1977   Benin        Third Highway      10.00         1.89
826-BEN       1978   Benin        Cotonou Port       19.30 3/      2.89
997-BEN       1980   Benin        Industrial Devel- 10.00         10.00
opment
TOTAL                                  86.10       19.60
of which has been repaid                8.45
TOTAL now outstanding                  77.65
TOTAL now held by IDA                  77.65
TOTAL undisbursed                      19.60
Amount      Undisbursed
(SDR million)
1090-BEN 4/   1981   Benin        Feeder Roads        5.5          5.5
1127-BEN 4/   1981   Benin        Borgou Province
Rural Development 15.7         15.7
1142-BEN 4/   1981   Benin        Fourth Highway      9.3          9.3
1171-BEN 4/   1981   Benin        Cotonou Water
Sanitation          4.1         4.1
TOTAL                                  34.6        34.6
of which has been repaid                0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                  34.6
TOTAL now held by IDA                  34.6
TOTAL undisbursed                      34.6
1/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment
2/ Including a Supplementary Credit of US$9 million.
3/ Including US$8.3 million participation of the Government of Norway (fully
disbursed) and repaid.
4/ Not effective yet. Credit No. 1090 was signed on January 14, 1981 and
Credit No. 1127 on April 9, 1981. Credit 1142 was approved on May 14,
and was signed on July 16, 1981. Credit 1171 was approved on June 25, 1981
and has not yet been signed.



- 34 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 415: Second Highway Project; US$11.8 million credit
of July 3, 1973; Closing Date: October 31, 1981. Due to inflation and
currency realignments, project cost estimates increased to US$23.3 million or
77 percent above the original cost estimates. The Association provided a
supplementary credit of US$9.0 million on March 10, 1976. Physical execution
of the project has been completed. The closing date was postponed to October
31, 1981 to allow for disbursement of about $600,000 to cover costs of tech-
nical assistance under the Feeder Road Project (Credit 717-BEN).
Credit No. 583: Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0
million credit of September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981. This
credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training materials for a
Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction, equipment and technical
assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training program; and (iii)
preparation of a second education project. The construction of the National
Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for the rural
training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center (CPPE)
have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC. Equipment
has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for extension staff
and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural water supply com-
ponent jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980 is expected to
take two years to complete.
Credit No. 716; Technical Assistance Project; US$1.7 million
credit of May 30, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1981. This project is
designed to prepare the way for a rural development project. The project
which was to be carried out over a two-year period is nearing completion. It
provided for technical assistance to SONAGRI, the project-executing agency, in
financial management, project preparation and evaluation, procurement of
trucks and staff vehicles, consultant services for the preparation of invest-
ment proposals and for cotton and foodcrops adaptive research. Preparation of
the Zou project is nearing completion.
Credit No. 717: Feeder Roads Project; US$5.5 million credit
of May 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1981. This project consists of
a three-year program for the improvement of about 845 km of feeder roads and
subsequent maintenance of about 1,270 km, the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment and spare parts, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Equip-
ment. This project is about completed. The program of feeder road develop-
ment would be continued under a recently approved Second Feeder Road project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -                                   ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 746: Third Highway Project US$10 million credit
of November 18, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This project is
designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou by providing for the
rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country-s main north-south highway;
it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program begun under the two
previous highway projects; including the elimination of some of the backlog of
bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen roads resealing program
have resulted in further deterioration of about 54 km of roads which now
require full reconstruction. This coupled with an erosion of the dollar of
about 17 percent since appraisal has caused project costs to increase by an
additional $5.5 million. Reconstruction of the bitumen roads is provided for
under the proposed Fourth Highway project.
Credit No. 826: Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit
of October 6, 1978, Closing Date: March 31, 1982. This project provides
for the extension of the existing general cargo port facilities involving
dredging of a new basin, construction of 610 m berths with transit sheds,
hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the construction of a new
cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging; technical assistance
for all port operations including railway and a study of coastal erosion
problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally agreed to par-
ticipate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of external
financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved on
November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of one
of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $7.5 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the
construction of a new one. The Government is seeking additional financing
from the cofinanciers.
Credit No. 997-BEN: Industrial Development Project; US$10
million credit of April 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project
provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement
(BBD) for financing small- and medium-scale investments in the industrial
sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD-s capacity to identify,
promote and assist industrial projects.
Credit No. 1090-BEN: Second Feeder Roads Project; US$7 million
credit of January 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984. This project
provides for the construction of about 700 km and maintenance of 1,200 km of
feeder roads. This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1127-BEN: Borgou Province Rural Development Project;
US$20 million credit of April 9, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985. This
project provides for expanding agricultural production (foodcrops and cotton)
in the Borgou Province through the strengthening and support of institutions
and of technical infrastructure, integrated with improved extension, coopera-
tives, training and social services. This Credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -                                  Annex II
Page 4
Credit No. 1142-BEN: Fourth Highway Project; US$11.3 million
credit of July 16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project provides
for strengthening the Directorate of Roads and Bridges' capacity to carry out
routine and periodic road maintenance, by training field, workshop and office
staff at different levels; continuing the program for rehabilitation of paved
and gravel roads; and instituting axle-load control and safety programs.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1171-BEN: Cotonou Water/Sanitation Engineering Project;
US$5.0 million credit approved by the Executive Directors July 9, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project provides for studies to help
define and implement long-range sector objectives and strategies to address
Cotonou's most urgent water and sanitation needs. This Credit has not yet
been signed.



- 37 -                            ANNEX II
Page 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of August 31, 1981)
Amount - US$ million
(less cancellations)
Bank        IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Three credits and one loan fully disbursed    3.5            18.40        0
638-TO   1976  Togo Maritime Region Rural
Development                             9.45       3.13
693-TO   1977  Togo Third Highway                         10.00       0.68
741-TO   1977  Togo Rural Development
in Cotton Areas                         13.21       3.55
810-TO   1978  Togo Feeder Roads                           5.80       2.64
930-TO   1979  Togo Technical Assistance                   2.20       1.93
945-TO   1979  Togo Cocoa/Coffee
Development II                          14.00      13.94
1018-TO   1979  Togo First Education                       11.00      10.58
Total                          3.5        84.06      36.45
of which has been repaid      0.11         0.13
Total now outstanding          3.39       83.93
Amount sold                      0            0
of which has been repaid         0           0
Total now held by
Bank and IDA          3.39        83.93
Total undisbursed                                    36.45
Amount   Undisbursed
(SDR million)
1139-TO 2/  1981  Togo Fourth Highway                       16.4       16.4
1169-TO 2/  1981  Togo Phosphate Engineering                 4.8        4.8
Total                                    21.2       21.2
of which has been repaid                  0.0
Total now outstanding                    21.2
Total now held by IDA                    21.2
Total undisbursed                        21.2
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Not yet effective. Credit 1139 was approved on May 7, 1981, and
Credit 1169 was approved on June 23, 1981. Neither credit has been signed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
B. Statement of Bank Loan Guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo
Bank      IDA 1/ Undisbursed
1295 - WAF   1976   CIMAO -CIMAO Regional
Clinker                  49.5                  0
C.  Statement of IDA Credit for Regional Projects - Benin, Ivory Coast,
Niger, Senegal Togo, Upper Volta
969 - WAF   1980   BOAD Project Preparation Credit         3.0       2.69
1/ Prior to Exchange Adjustment



- 39 -                                  ANNEX II
Page 7
D. Projects in Execution *
Credit No. 638-TO Maritime Region Rural Development Project; US$9.5 million;
Credit of June 16, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The purpose of the project is to improve and diversify production of
upland crops (maize, cassava, groundnuts, cowpeas and cotton); develop lowland
rainfed rice and vegetables; rehabilitate smallholder coconut plantings; and
provide the necessary support services and infrastructure for about 20,000 farm
families. Adverse weather conditions, difficulties in developing a technology
appropriate to the depleted coastal soils and insufficient supervision of
extension works have delayed implementation of the project. Infrastructure
development has been satisfactory. A project monitoring and evaluation unit
has recently been established.
Credit No. 693-TO Third Highway Project; US$10.0 million; Credit of
April 1, 1977; Effectiveness Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project provides for the reconstruction of the Aneho-Tabligbo
road (45 km), the construction of the Agou-Notse road (51 km), the provision
of technical assistance for improving transport planning and road maintenance,
and preinvestment studies for a follow-up project. Implementation of the
project has been satisfactory and is by now practically complete. The
implementation of the technical assistance component has been slower than
expected.
Credit No. 741-TO Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas; US$14.0 million;
Credit of October 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project aims at increasing cotton production from 7,000 tons to
34,000 tons and foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton from 40,000 tons to
57,000 tons (maize and sorghum); and strengthening of SOTOCO, the agency in
charge of the project. The project is progressing well. Over 45,000 farmers
are now involved in the project. 22,000 tons of seed cotton were produced in
1980. The area planted to improved foodcrops was 23,000 ha. Credit repayment
by farmers has been good. 215 km of feeder roads have been constructed and
120 wells have been drilled. Extension of the project, with greater emphasis
on foodcrops is under consideration. SOTOCO financial management has improved
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems and actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read
with the understanding that they do not present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 40 -                                 ANNEX II
Page8
considerably over 1980. However, its financial situation remains unsatisfac-
tory, because of delays in the payment of the Government's contributions.
Credit No. 810-TO Feeder Roads Project; US$ 5.8 Million; Credit of June 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project consists of a four year program for the improvement
and maintenance of about 1,000 km of feeder roads, technical assistance to
establish a Feeder Roads Unit in charge of the program, and consultant ser-
vices to study a follow-up feeder roads program. The equipment provided to
the Feeder Roads Unit is now fully operational, while efforts are being made
to ensure that future work programs adhere more closely to what has been
foreseen under the project. Implementation of the project has suffered from
serious institutional difficulties, but the Government has recently agreed to
undertake corrective measures.
Credit No. 930-TO Technical Assistance Project; US$2.2 million;
Credit of June 22, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 23,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project provides for two advisers in the Ministry of Planning
for a three year period each and for short term consultants to carry out
specific project related and macroeconomic studies. The first adviser is
expected to counsel on general economic and public finance questions, while
the second adviser is expected to assist in selecting major new investments
and in finding ways of improving existing large projects. The first adviser
has served for over a year. The search for the second adviser is drawing to a
close with a suitable candidate expected to be appointed shortly.
Credit No. 945-TO Second Cocoa and Coffee Development Project; US$14.0 million
Credit of July 23, 1979; Effectivenes Date: July 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is a continuation of the first Coffee-Cocoa project. It
provides for the planting and maintenance of a further 7,500 ha of coffee and
4,000 ha of cocoa by 17,000 smallholder farmers, marketing, storage and extension
services, applied research, associated foodcrop development, and construction of
300 km of feeder roads. Coffee planting for 1981 is expected to be ahead of
target. The cocoa program has been delayed by an outbreak of capsid disease,
and by land tenure problems.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Credit No. 969-WAF Project Preparation Credit to Banque Ouest Africaine de
Developpement; US$3.0 million; credit of January 25, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1980; CloFing Date: June 30,
1983.
The objective of the project is to finance feasibility and detailed
engineering studies by external consultants of regional development projects,
which a priori have a high probability of success. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. BOAD is a well managed institution, but its financial situa-
tion will have to be carefully monitored.
Credit No. 1018-TO First Education Project; US$ 11.0 million; Credit of
September 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Construction of training institutions is progressing on schedule.
Credit No. 1139-TO Fourth Highway Project; US$20.0 million approved by the
Executive Directors May 7, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This project provides for a three-year training program for road
maintenance personnel; procurement of road maintenance equipment and spare
parts; pavement of 157 km. of road; pre-investment studies for 57 km. of road;
and technical assistance to improve transport planling and coordination, as
well as railway operations. This Credit has not yet been signed.
Credit No. 1169-TO Phosphate Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$5.7 million;
credit approved by the Executive Directors June 23, 1981;
Closing Date: August 30, 1983.
The purpose of this project is to determine the technical and eco-
nomic viability of developing a phosphate fertilizer project to manufacture
for export phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers from the Dagbati deposits
and from recovered slimes. The Credit has not yet been signed.



- 42 -
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  First Bank Mission to consider the project: December 1980
(b)  Agency which prepared the Project: UNDP - Electrowatt/Sogreah
(Switzerland/France), IDA as executing agency, at request of both
Governments.
(c)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  February 1981
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations: August 1981
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  January 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a)    CEB, SBEE and CEET will make available sufficient resources to
cover their estimated share of local cost financing for the project
(para. 78);and
(b)    CEB will be responsible for overall project coordination, and
would be designated by the Governments of Benin and Togo as author-
ized signatory for purposes of preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications under the proposed Credits (paras. 80 and 82).
A special condition of Credit effectiveness would be the execution of Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements between the Governments of Benin and Togo with CEB,
and of Financing Agreements between CEB and SBEE and CEET respectively,
all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (paras. 79
and 82). Conditions of effectiveness for both Development Credit Agreements
would be the same, and both Agreements would be declared effective on the
same date.
The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association have been modified to provide for a consolidated arbitration
proceeding in the appropriate circumstances (Schedule 3 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreements).



International Development Association                  t  
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FO R            1For consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                          November 10, 1981
DIRECTORS'                               r         1        v                  __       l
MEETING
IDA/R81-127/1
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                           November 6, 1981
BENIN/TOGO: Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project
Corrigendum
The attached map (IBRD 15690) replaces the map (IBRD 15657) included
in the President's Report and Recomendation on Benin/Togo: Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (IDA/R81-127) distributed on
October 22, 1981.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
President's Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






43RD 169
-O O    BENISING
~~A L                   , E R                            '    ENGINEERING   PROEC
3 )      C)          S1 otoubauou                                        =                =    ---  UNDER CONOSTRUCTION S
touboua                                                             Zoume
1   +  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NERAI)N SA,I!   
L ai. ' f  i             <            E   V    I  \                             0            W'3~~~~~~~~~~~S WD91
\< t X  9 79 V                   \            a                    ic~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWERS
:S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llcg~ t






IBRD 15657
UPPER VOLTA   r                                   1'20'                                      1-30'  /To 6hot VoSouDh          APRtL 1981
I   -               Ws,h .o 55 pp.d s- t-           Dzaf i
_W BW       s ~..kds,s of
'(t.iwffOssUoff,,c,hfad*,fsof  X  ,EDzafl             /           }          Le,  BENIN
BENIN         Th If  0  -      ha .pe/
do ,t -s,.'0n h pf of hs/
J Wd,* B    t.k ~Od(ftMsiso so,
GHANA           '        r       y .  o As log.- t  /0 ofTABLIGBO
\,, TO Ga|l                o         " fi 'Seco'-ucb"we   /
  2  w Adangb6                 Tchekpo D6dekpoe
Gouf ofin       6-G\                                                                                   Afanyangan   6-3D'
),los        \       </                         Esson                             D /gbot'
@    Gblenvie  \\       >AgbatopP                                                o         f         a  locations
s-Ei                                                          CIMAO grinding              Atitogoe
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V     n                                                                               6 20'
Sa_ < s omm                 Oi refinenrouin
\%> |!\ ~~~~~~~~~~ < Q~~~xistingingrawayf
Naxitiong racilwayfcitinpl
*      Possible raiwaystrengtertingiz ner plnbcrionec
-     Mating roadng s
Secondary roads
6OO    oo       o          so    15                    20         ~         ~Swampyw areas sot
KIoMETERs                            -.-AInternational boundaries
AgoL                                                                                               ECH20  30
A,rpo,t, 



