OFICIAL
DOCU   T       CREDIT NUMBER 1190 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1190 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     0U-CL      aA , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF TOGO (hereinafter c lled the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   any financing so provided by the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so requests, out of the proceeds of
any credit by the Association or loan by the International Bruk
for Reconstruction and Development which may later be granted
to the Borrower, or any political subdivision thereof, or any
enterprise owned or controlled by, or operating for the account
or benefit of the Borrower or of any such subdivision or any
subsidiary of such enterprise, for the carrying out of any
project for which studies or designs have been carried out under
the Project;
(C)   the People's Republic of Benin has also requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange
cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the People's
Republic of Benin and the Association (the "Benin Development
Credit Agreement"), the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to one
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,700,000);
(D)   Parts A, B.1 (a), B.2 (a), B.3 (a), C.3 and C.4 of the
Project will be carried out by the Communaut6 Electrique du
Benin ("CEB") with the assistance of the Borrower and the People's
Republic of Benin and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to CEB part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided and the People's Republic of Benin will make
available to CEB part of the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Benin Development Credit Agreement in accordance with
the terms of said agreement;
(E)   the Borrower, the People's Republic of Benin, and the
Association intend that for the financing of the Parts of the
Project to be carried out by CEB, the proceeds of the Credit


﻿- 2 -
provided for in this Agreement be disbursed pari pass- with the
proceeds of the credit provided for in the Benin Development
Credit Agreement;
(F)   Parts B.1 (b), B.2 (b), B.3 (b) and C.1 of the Project
will be carried out by the Compagnie Energie Electrigue du Togo
("CEET") with the Borrower's and CEB's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower, through CEB, will make available to
CEET part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(G)   by an exchange of letters dated December 5, 1980 and
February 11, 1981 between the Borrower and the Association, the
Association has granted the Borrower an advance (hereinafter
called the Advance) in an amount equivalent to $400,000 to assist
the Borrower in financing the preparation of the Project and the
Association is prepared to refund such Advance out of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for herein;
(H)   CEB has contracted from the Republic of France, acting
through its Fonds d'Aide et de Coopfration ("FAC"), a grant
in the amount of four million five hundred thousand French Francs
(FF 4,500,000) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement dated February 6,
1981 between the Republic of France and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and CEB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-3-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meaning.:
(a)   "CEB" means the Communautf Electrique du Binin, an
international public enterprise established and operating pursuant
to the Accord Relatif A 1'Institution d'un Code Daho-Togolais
de 1'Electricitl et A la Criation d'une Communautf Electrique
du Binin, between the Borrower and the People's Republic of
Benin, dated July 27, 1968, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(b)   "CEET" means the Compasnie Eneriis Electrique du Toso,
a public company established pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance
No. 63-12 of March 20, 1963, and operating pursuant to statutes
approved by the Borrower's Decree No. 63-152 of December 11, 1963,
as such statutes may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "SBEE" means Sociftf Bininoise d'Electricitg at
d'Eau, a public company established by Ordinance No. 73-13 of
February 7, 1973, of the People's Republic of Benin and operating
pursuant to statutes approved by Ordinance No. 74-20 of March 11,
1974, of the People's Republic of Benin, as such statutes may be
amended from time to time;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and CEB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(e)   "Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and CEB pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(f)   "CEET Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between CEB and CEET pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement and Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)   "Benin Development Credit Agreement" means the develop-
ment credit agreement of even date with this Agreement between
the People's Republic of Benin and the Association for the
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time;


﻿(h)   "Benin Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the People's Republic of Benin and CEB
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Benin Development Credit
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i)   "SBEE Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between CEB and SBEE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
the Benin Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from to time;
(j)   "Fiscal Year" means: (i) with respact to CEB, the period
January 1 through December 31; (ii) with respect to CEET, the
period October 1 through September 30; and (iii) with respect to
SBEE, the period July 1 through June 30;
(k)   "Nangbeto Hydroelectric Project" means the joint project
by the Borrower and the People's Republic of Benin for the con-
struction of a 60 MW hydroelectric power facility on the Mono
River at Nangbeto, to be carried out and operated by CEB; and
(1)   "Advance" means the advance in various currencies
equivalent to four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) granted to
the Borrower by the Association pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated December 5, 1980 and February 11, 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 1,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
services (including any goods required in connection with such
services, as provided in the contracts for such services) required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿- 5 -
(b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Associat,on
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.   The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Advance shall automatically be
cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. The Clos-ing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Scrice charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991, and ending May 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.08. CEB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon a7.iy of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) exercise any right, power or
remedy available to it so as to permit CEB to perform in


﻿- 6 -
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance, and (ii) cause
CEET to carry out Parts B.1 (b), B.2 (b), B.3 (b), and C.1 of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of the CEET Financing
Agreement, shall take all action necessary or appropriate to
enable CEET to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to CEB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CEB on terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association. Such terms and
conditions shall include, inter alia, that, out of the proceeds
of the Credit, (i) $750,000 equivalent shall be relent to CEB for
a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 3 years, at an
interest rate of 11.60% per annum, (ii) $1,235,000 equivalent
shall be made available to CEB as a grant, and (iii) out of such
grant funds, CEB shall make $510,000 equivalent available to
CEET as a grant under a financing agreement to be entered into
between CEB and CEET on terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia,
the provisions set forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall eercise its rights under the Togo
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of- the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a)   CEB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of CEB under the Project Agreement, the Togo
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the CEET Financing Agreement;


﻿-7-
(b)   CEET shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of CEET under the CEET Financing Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CEET or CEB, or for the suspension of their respective
operations;
(d)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that CEB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement, the Togo Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, or the CEET Financing Agreement, or which shall
make it improbable that CEET will be able to perform its
obligations under the CEET Financing Agreement;
(e)   the Accord Relatif a l'Institution d'un Code Daho-
Togolais de l'Electricitg et a la Creation d'une Communaute
Electrigue du B&nin dated July 27, 1968, or the Code de l'Electri-
cite annexed to such Accord, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of CEB to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, the
Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the CEET Financing Agreement;
(f) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
right of the People's Republic of Benin to withdraw
the proceeds of the credit made available to it
under the Benin Development Credit Agreement shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Benin Development Credit Agreement;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if adequate funds for the Project are available to
CEB and SBEE from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of CEB
and SBEE under the Project Agreement and the SBEE
Financing Agreement, respectively.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period


﻿- 8 -
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and to CEB or CEET, as the case may
require; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c), (e) or (f) oi
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   the Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CEB;
(b)   the CEET Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf
of CEB and CEET; and
(c)   the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Benin Development Credit Agreement, other than fulfillment of the
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been satisfied.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly signed and
authorized or ratified by CEB, and is legally binding upon CEB in
accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Togo Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
signed and authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CEB, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and CEB in accordance with its
terms; and
(c)   that the CEET Financing Agreement has been duly signed
and authorized or ratified by CEB and CEET, and is legally binding
upon CEB and CEET in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 9-
Section 5.03. The date    D         a  , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except. as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance and economy is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lomg
Togo
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINANCES                        5286
Lomg, Togo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For CEB:
Communaute Electrique du Benin
Direction Gen&rale
Rue de l'Hopital
B.P. 1368
Lomg, Togo
Cable address:
BENELEC
Lome, Togo
For CEET:
Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo
10 Rue du Colonel de Roux
B.P. 42
Lome, Togo
Cable address:                       Telex:
CEET                               5230 CEET
Lome, Togo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' and experts'
services (including
goods provided for
in the contracts for
such services) for:
(a) Part A and Parts           620,000        50% of foreign
C.3 and C.4 of the                       expenditures
Project
(b) Parts B.1 (a),             130,000        50% of foreign
B.2 (a), B.3 (a)                         expenditures
of the Project
(c) Parts B.1 (b),             460,000        100% of foreign
B.2 (b), B.3 (b),                        expenditures
C.1 of the Project
(2) Refinancing of                  360,000        Amount due
the Advance                                   under Section
2.02 (b)
(3) Unallocated                     230,000
TOTAL         1,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the


﻿- 12 -
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country from the territory of which goods or services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures" but, pro-
vided further, that expenditures for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the People's Republic of Benin shall not
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to November 10, 1981, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $645,000 may be
made in respect of Subcategories (1) (b) and (c) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before such date but after
February 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category or Subcategory will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category or Subcategory, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category
or Subcategory, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category or Subcategory and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
or Subcategory may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to complete the studies and
related activities necessary for the preparation of the Nangbeto
Hydroelectric Project and to carry out ancillary studies for the
planning of the power sectors of Togo and Benin and the strength-
ening of the relevant institutions.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Preparatory Studies and Activities for the
Nangbeto Hydroelectric Project
1.   Completion of engineering design studies, including
geological investigations and hydraulic model tests.
2.   Pre-contracting activities including, inter alia,
preparation of bid and contract documents, prequali-
fication of contractors and suppliers, and evaluation
of bids.
3.   Preparation of a plan for the resettlement of the
population to be affected by the construction works.
4.   Detailed review and monitoring of the studies and
activities to be carried out under Parts A.1 through
A.3 of the Project by a panel of independent experts.
Part B:   Power Sector Studies
1.   Organizational and Financial Studies
(a) A study of CEB's management, organization, finances
and training needs, and formulation of a plan to
correct shortcomings identified by such study.
(b) A   study  of CEET's management, organization,
finances and training needs, and formulation of
plans to correct shortcomings identified by such
study, for integration of the thermal power plant
at Lome into the power sector of the Borrower,
and for improving plant maintenance practices.


﻿- 14 -
(c) A study of SBEE's management, organization,
finances and training needs, etnd formulation of a
plan to correct shortcomings identified by such
study.
2.   Audits
(a) Auditing of CEB's accounts and financial statements
(balance sheet, statement of income and expenses
and related statements) for Fiscal Year 1980 and
review of its accounting system and procedures.
(b) Auditing of CEET's accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheet, statement of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for Fiscal Year 1980
and review of its accounting system and procedures.
3.   Tariff Studies
(a) A study of CEB's tariffs;
(b) A study of CEET's tariffs.
(c) A study of SBEE's tariffs.
Part C:   Planning Studies
1.   Preparation of a master plan for the distribution
of electric power in the city of Lomi, including
identification of priority works.
2.   Preparation of a master plan for the distribution
of electric power in the city of Cotonou, including
identification of priority works.
3.   A survey of potential hydroelectric resources in Togo and
Benin, including identification and ranking of priority
sites.
4.   Preparation of a master plan for the development of
power generation and distribution in Togo and Benin,
taking into consideration possible regional inter-
connection and the results of the survey to be carried
out under Part C.3 of the Project.
T  P                   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
1.   The following paragraph 14 is added at the end of Section
2.01:
"14. The term Benin Development Credit Agreement means
the development credit agreement between the People's
Republic of Benin and the Association for the purpose of
the Project, of even date with the Development Credit
Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time."
2.   The following paragraph (m) is added at the end of Section
10.03:
"(m) If any arbitration proceeding is instituted under
this Section and if the controversies or claims to be submit-
ted to arbitration involve a question of law or fact common
to any controversy or claim submitted to arbitration under
the Benin Development Credit Agreement, such arbitration
proceedings shall be consolidated into one proceeding upon
request by either party notified to the other, provided that
if in such other arbitration proceeding a period shall have
been fixed for the presentation of evidence, such notice
shall have been given prior to the expiration of such period.
A request for consolidation shall be promptly notified to the
parties to such other arbitration proceeding and, if already
appointed, to the Umpire of the arbitral tribunal constituted
for such other proceeding. The Borrower and the Association
hereby accept any consolidation of arbitration proceedings
duly requested pursuant to Section 10.03 (m) of the General
Conditions applicable to the Benin Development Credit
Agreement. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (1) of
this Section shall apply mutatis mutandis to any consolidated
arbitration proceeding, except that the parties shall be
the Association on the one hand, and the Borrower and the
People's Republic of Benin on the other, and the Arbitral
Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Associa-
tion; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Borrower


﻿- 16 -
and the People's Republic of Benin; and the third arbitrator
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed
by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by
the President of the International Court of Justice or,
failing appointment by him, by the Secretary-General of the
United Nations. If the Borrower and the People's Republic
of Benin shall not agree on the appointment of a common
arbitrator, the Borrower and the People's Republic of Benin
shall each appoint one arbitrator and, in such event, the
Association, on its part, shall appoint two arbitrators and
the four arbitrators so appointed shall, together with the
Umpire appointed as provided above, constitute the Arbitral
Tribunal. If any party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator,
such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          - day of          ,
19 8 4.
FOR SECREAY


