Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC591
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/28/2004
A. Basic Project Data (ifom PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country: NAMIBIA                               Project ID: P073135
Project: Integrated Conmmunity-Based Ecosystem  Task Teamn Leader: Christophe Crepin
Management (ICEMA)
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 28, 2004  IBRD Amount (Srn):
Bank Approval: May 20, 2004                    IDA Amount ($m):
Global Supplemental Amount (Sim): 7.10
Managing Unit: AFTS4                           Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Lending Instrumiient: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (100%)
Status: GEF grant $m 7.1                       Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and
institutions (P); Land management (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project development objective is to promote community-based integrated ecosystem
management that accrue socio-economic benefits, and prospect for benefits, to conservancies.
The project global objective is to restore, secure and enhance key ecosystem processes in
conservancies that increase the prospects to improve significantly the conservation of globally
important biodiversity and to reduce land degradation in the country as a whole.
Background to the project
The project's on-the-ground activities will be targeted to communally managed lands represented
through Namibia's "communal conservancy network". Therefore, the project also provides direct
institutional support to the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), which is the country'
lead agency responsible for implementing the "National Community-Based Natural Resource
Management (CBNRM) Program". The CBNRM Program        in Namibia is based on an initial
policy and legal framework which grants rights over wildlife and tourism management and uses
to communities on their lands once they are organized as "conservancies". Conservancies are
multiple-use zones with legal status, registered with the authorities (Ministry of Environmenit
and Tourism), where residents curr-enitly continue farming but collectively manage wildlife in
order to benefit both from better natural resource management practice, and from capturing
tourism revenues. A communal conservancy consists in setting aside part or all of the land of a
given community with the intention to conserve and valorise wildlife through its sustainable
consumptive and non-consumptive uses within ecosystem-related activities. The committees that
run conservancies aim to. be multifunctional, serving as management structures for natural
resources utilization and benefit distribution. The establishment of communal conservancies is
seen as a fundamental step in improving local management capacity and linking it to benefits for
communities in communal areas, promoting sustainable environmental management and rural
development.   The changes associated with the National CBNRM Program are expected to
impact differently on rural households depending on factors lilce income levels, livestock wealth,



2
ISDS
tourism income, wild resource income, cash income, conservancy involvement, degree of
common property management, employment and education.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
1. Project components: (see Annex I)
GEF provides incremental financillg for the project's 4 inter-related components that together
serve to consolidate, add value to and build on the previous achievements of the National
CBNRM Program. It will foster the shift from traditional natural resource management
(mainly wildlife) to an integrated ecosystem management approach in targeted conservancies
thereby enhancing globally significant biodiversity conservation and reducing  land
degradation while at the same time providing increased income-generating activities. ICEMA
will support targeted conservancies on communal lands complying with MET's and ICEMA's
defined strategic criteria. The project also provides institutional support to the Ministry of
Environment and Tourism (MET), which is the governmental lead agency responsible for
implementing the National Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNR4M)
Program.
Project components 1 "Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities" and 2 "Sustainable
Ecosystem Management" support site-specific on-the-ground activities.
Project component 3 "Targeted Institutional Support" focus on priority issues of the
institutional, policy and financial CBNRM framework. All three components are expected to
provide replicable lessons for the remaining conservancy network.
Project component 4 "Project Management Support" aims to strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Environment and Tourism to manage and supervise the project activities.
Component 1: Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities
This component is concerned with the sustainable use of natural resources and ecosystem
services through provision of funds to conmmunities for barrier removal to ecosystem-based
income-generating activities that generate equitable benefits to conservancies members. It
specifically aims to
(i)  provide  resources  for  direct  financing  of demand-driven  ecosystem-based
income-generating activities,
(ii) increase the viability of activities through tailored business planning, feasibility support,
training and mentoring;
(iii) promote mechanisms for equitable sharing of costs and benefits;
(iv) develop and disseminate best practices for replication and up-scaling through monitoring
and evaluation processes; and
(v) contribute to improved participation in development planning processes at local and
regional level.
The two closely inter-related sub-co7mponents are the
a) Community-Funding Facility (CFF):
The sub-component focuses on the delivery of sub-projects (micro-projects) to eligible (see
selection criteria in annex 2) registered conservancies. CFF funded activities will target a
diversity of aspects related to wildlife, tourism, forestry, and multi-sector with emphasis on



3
ISDS
community ownership.
b) Capacity- Building and Technical Assistance:
This sub-component focuses on providing three levels of support to conservancies:
(i) technical support for strategic business planning as part of the conservancy ecosystem
management planning process as well as for subproject development including a mechanism
for benefit sharing at conservancy and specific subproject level. It will further assist with the
development of subproject proposals through feasibility studies to identify and assess costs
and benefits for new income-generating opporttnities as well as to provide guidance based
on marketing and management study results.
(ii) inmplementation support for subprojects consist of subproject in-built technical assistance
(TA) for training and mentoring to further strengthen capacity of local stakeholders, and to
ensure desired quality and standards of subprojects;
(iii) follow-up support for subproject management including management advise, knowledge
management and replication activities at local and national level.
Component 2: Sustainable Ecosystem Management
This component is concerned with restoring, securing and enhancing the biodiversity and
ecosystem processes that support sustainable benefits to local communities on communal
lands. The component will adapt its support according to national conservation priorities and
the needs and current status of targeted conservancies. Some Conservancies will only require
basic support for the community based integrated ecosystem management planning and
prioritization of activities, for developing methodological approaches for pilot activities, for
designing an appropriate knowledge management and replication strategy and action plan.
Whereas other Conservancies, where there is a need and which have more capacity to plan
and implement their plan, will benefit from an enhanced and more detailed approach.
The component provides funds and teclnical support to:
(i) establish approaches for CBIEM planning including inventory and baseline assessment as
needed in targeted sites;
(ii) restore, maintain and enhance ecosystem services as part of the implementation of tlle
management plans as needed in targeted sites;
(iii) develop capacity for local monitoring and evaluation functions related to ecosystem
management (including replication) as needed in targeted sites.
The three inter-related sub-components are the
(a) Management Planning:
The sub-component will support the development of 15 integrated conservancy management
plans in targeted registered and emerging Conservancies that will guide resource based
management activities.
(b) Implementation:
This sub-component focus on the implementation of site-specific key prioritized activities for
ecosystem restoration, maintenance and recovery as outlined in the CBIEM plan.
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation:
This sub-comporient focus on
(a) designing an adaptive and comprehensive CBIEM m&e methodology (socio-economic



4
ISDS
and environmental) for local level users and uses;
(b) implementing m&e througlh support'for data collection (satellite phone, tracker; aerial
surveys, GIS) at local and central level;
(c) providing training for local and centr-al level stakeholders on m&e development and use.
Component 3: Targeted lnstitutional Support
The component aims to improve the MET's strategic planning, implementation, monitoring
and replication capacity to promote, develop and implement the National CBNRM Program
and policies in Namibia over the longer term. It will also provide institutional and operational
support to selected Conservancies.
The component is focusing on
(i) strengthening MET's organizational framework for CBNRM;
(ii) providing targeted training for MET's staff to support its leading role related to National
CBNRM Program in place;
(iii) reinforcing the MET to engage other sectoral ministries in the active SUppolt for
CBNRM policies and the CBNRM Program implementation;
(iv) facilitating the establishment of a sustainable financing framework for CBNRM;
(v) providing direct institutional (training) and operational support (small equipment) to
targeted conservancies; and,
(vi) developing and implementing a CBNRM knowledge management and communication
strategy and action plan.
The two sub-components are:
(a) Policy and Organizational Review and Development:
This sub-component includes the following closely interlinked issues:
(i) reviewing and enabling the priority legal fi-amework for CBNRM;
(ii) providing technical support for improved inter-sectoral CBNRM policy coordination with
other ministries on themzatic issues;
(iii) identifying and funding of targeted CBNRM research issues to be undertaken or guided
by a technical and scientific roster of experts;
(iv) assisting MET to review its current National CBNRM strategy and institutional set-up.
The results and recommendations of this internal assessment will.be used to identify and
implement a targeted training plan for MET's centralized and decentralized staff.
(v) supporting MET to formalize a CBNRM consultative group to discuss policies issues,
progress within the National CBNRM Program and associated activities and to share
experiences.
(vi) supporting the development of a sustainable financing strategy including options to
integrate the protocols used under the CFF under' the Environment Investment Fund (ElF),
assessments of the further use of the Game Product Trust Fund (GPTF), mainstreaming
further funding for CBNRM into Government's budget, and development of a CBNRM
cost, reduction strategy; and
(vii) providing limited direct operational support (equipment and TA) to targeted
Conservancies for inter- and intra-conservancy meetings and registration procedures.
(b) Knowledge Management:



5
ISDS
The sub-component provides institutional support for
(i) designing and implementing a CBNRM multi-media communication strategy and action
plan outlining the communication tools, recipients and timeframe of actions;
(ii) developing and implementing a CBNRM replication plan; and
(iii) designing and implementing a CBNRM knowledge and dissemination management plan
for conservancies, central govemnnent and other stakeholders based on the lessons learned
over the lifetime of the project in particular under component 1 and 2.
Component 4: Project Management Support
The component aims to provide MET with the additional increased operational ability to
manage and supervise ICEMA activities.
The two sub-components are:
(i! Project Office and Management: The sub-component provides the necessary infrastruLcture
and training for the Project Office staff.
(ii! Review and Reporting. The sub-component enables the timely delivery of project reports
according to the project implementation plan.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, informationi about the key enviror-nental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas,.or sites or
critical natLral habitats, or any other culltually or socially sensitive areas.)
Conservancies are principally located in three regions of Namibia, i.e. the north-west (arid
savanna and desert, including the escarpment zone); north-east (broadleaf woodlands and
savanna in the Okavango and Zambezi River catchments), and southern Namibia (desert and
arid steppe (grassland and low scrubland). The detail of conservancies in each of the three
regions can be obtained from the table and map. Conservancies in all three regions are in
different stages of development and have different needs and potential for development and
natural resource conservation and management. All three regions are of importance to
Namibia in tenrs of biodiversity conservation and contain a wide range of Namibian or
southern African endemic species. None of the three regions are adequately represented in
Namibia's protected area network, or the protected areas in those regions can not be
effectively managed in isolation from adjacent land. These three regions therefore represent
the priority regions for intervention through the ICEMA project.
Interventions through this project are the result of a participatory and consultative process, in
which the specific situation and needs of each targeted conservancy will be considered. A
phased approach will be taken, focusing on a limited number of conservancies at time.
Lessons learned will be incorporated in the next phase. In addition to the ecosystem
approach, the projects supports cross-conservancy activities too achieve economies of scale
and in recognition that some anticipated intervenitions may, however, benefit more than one
conservancy, e.g. capacity-buildillg and training as well as investments as the reintroduction
of species.
Criteria for project intervention area:
The project will use limited GEF resources to support selected registered and emergillg



6
ISDS
conservancies:
*   with global environmiiienitally important assets;
*   with strong community-driven demand and ownership for the transition from a
community-based wildlife management (present) to an IEM (long-term) approach;
*   with strong potential for sustainability (socio-economic, financial and institutional);
*   where the GEF's catalytic role leads to additional leverage of resources addressing
root causes and other local development needs (partnering with other projects and
programs adding value to the national programme) and where insufficient funds are
available but financial viability is expected over time;
*   where contributing to the development of best practices;
*   in localities where community-based organizations are in place or emerging;
*   where scaling-up and replication is facilitated within the national CBNRM
programme; and/or where it favors an integrated landscape approach and a mix of
ecosystem types.
A list of priority target sites for project year one (see Annex 17 of the PAD) has been
pre-selected based on the above selection criteria, yet conclusion on final intervention sites of
project year one, will be subject to a consultative process to be undertaken until project
effectiveness.



Ej~               D
-E
,,,~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W. A.  IL d 
IU~~~~~~~~~~~C
o'
o     ,



8
ISDS
Map. Registered Communal Conservanicies in Namibia. Source: MET, 2003.
Registered Communal Conservancies
t7.    //                             Registerod Communal
3 Kw"rdi.
4 t. ';,lisiI
=   8 UitkIkrle, i
-> 1,< O_ nqundvmb
13 Oynndu rtui
5iu.>f2-, ^* '  '.. -  t;-                             nlrvaci
|S 3 Fi'^   ".#'""E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nive'
3 7 !  Kj in-AivMa
2. Tr.isn
*  5   5  '  "   \                          7 M.ti.f, .  -  St
t=>w- -t             vXJLr /lF 95anruPotcrdAe
I  9 < .                 gYg  I o mur;se
*;  3-  ;1 ]                     ..  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Oao:;f a%rrl1nin
\*/   ! ..                       9-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 0-12O.nowdeb
B~~~~~~. cekEvrn,etl clasiiction B (Partwr13O ial Assessment
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o- 2 4 eiTisfrls-rL
imacs ha cnnt eitgaed efetvl. nEvrnmna n Socia Asesmn (EA ha bee.nl
,'  @   EIS,   <  /,&>1-'        ~~~~~~~~.;,, - '  9'.n^t1N3 0
( ,  H                          . . 24~~~~~~~~~~L St,ate PotecedAra
>9                      i  \  .; z 23 Olji ntc3xf 0~~~~~I
B.~~~~~~~ Clec Eivriieia  lssfcto: B (Pi,ia . As-ses2sment)           N .
imacstht ano e -ntgaedefetveyAi Eivrrietaan Soia Asesmn ESA      t ate broeen



9
ISDS
prepared and lays out a clear and systematic process for the effective assessment of any potential
environmental impacts that could result from project-funded activities. The ESA spells out the institutional
set-up for project implementation as well as screening of sub-projects, as well as monitoring of the
implementation of mitigative measures of potential environumental or social impacts.
In accordance with OP.4.12, resettlement, either in the form of physical relocation on communal lands
(there will be no land acquisition under the project) or through restriction or loss of access to conservancy
areas, both resulting in adverse impacts oni the livelihood of people will be avoided to the or adequately
mitigated. A Resettlement Policy Framework and template Resettlement Action Plan have been prepared.
OD 4.20, indigenous people applies as the project may support conservancies in which San, intemationally
recognized as indigenous people, reside. In accordance with OD 4.20, indigenous people, an Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan focusing on the San has been developed to ensure that the San equally benefit
from project activities and intervention in tenns of social, economic, and cultural development and that any
activities leading to potential marginalization of San within communnal management of conservancies are
prevented.
C Saferguard Policies Triggered (fionm 1'DS)
(click on I for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a bri ef description)
Policy                                  Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 * Yes 0 No
1nvoluntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Ycs 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International MWaters (OP 7.50, BPl 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes 0 No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Smnimary of Key Safegutard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. ifinforimation is niot available,
cdescr-ibe steps to be taken to obtain necessary dlatli.
lI.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify anic describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or ir-eversible impacts.
Overall, the project is designed   and expected to have positive envirounental and
socio-economic benefits. The safeguard documents prepared for the project confirm that
significant or irreversible negative impacts are not expected. The safeguard documents
provide for the prevention and mitigation of minor environmental and social issues. National
and World Bank environmental and social safeguards will be complied with by NGO,
conservancy partners and private sector firms to which implementation of several
conservancy-based activities will be out-sourced by the Government/Ministry of
Environment.
Because the ICEMA project has not yet identified specific activities of sub-projects nor exact



10
ISDS
areas where its various components will be implemented over the course of the next 5 years
of implementation, only a broad statement on potentially negative impacts can be provided.
Potentially negative biophysical and social impacts that will require mitigation could occUI
within the conservancies through implementation of activates under Component 1 and 2. To
prevent and mitigate potentially negative impact, enviromental and social safeguard
recommendations will need to be integrated in conservancy management planning.
Conservancy management plans will need to be in place before project investment will be
made at conseivancy level. It follows that the conservancy management plans will be
developed on a participatoly fashion and with broad-based consultation of all conservancy
members. Although existing and planned benefit distribution plans and income and
employment generating activities should provide benefits to local communities, there could be
negative impact affecting non-members of conservancies. This would include local people
who presentably engage in illegal exploitation of natural resources (e.g. wildlife, gemstones,
etc.) and who would prevented to do so in strengthened conservancy management schemes.
With regard to tourism development and related activities in conservancies, the broader area
will have a tourism  master plan with set parameters for tourism  and infrastructur-e
development (this already exists for some regions). Where an intended large sub-project (e.g.
a community lodge) is likely to result in some environmental impacts, an EIA will be
necessary. The ESA includes guidelines and generic Terms of Reference for such ElAs while
Namibia's EA policy provides clear direction on the process that must be followed in
conducting the EIA  and the standards required by the government in this regard.
Notwithstanding the obvious need for conducting ElAs for major projects, the ESA
recommends a pragmatic approach towards ElAs, so that small projects that are unlikely to
result in significant negative impacts, not be required to do EIAs. In such cases, goverrnnent
can set conditions of approval based on expert opinion.
Il.D.lb. Describe any potential cumllulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
duc to multiple project component.
It is anticipated that there will be no cumulative adverse impacts.
lI.D.lc Describe any potential long term Impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Project sites will be selected based on agreed criteria for selection (see Point I.A.4. above).
Thus, the predictions on long term impact of project activities will be general rather than
specific to identified project intervention areas. The long term impact of the project is to
enable conservancies to accrue socio-economic benefits through community-based integrated
ecosystem management. The project further supports conservancies with restoring, securing,
and enlhancing key ecosystem processes in conservancies that increase the prospects to
improve significantly the conservation of globally important biodiversity and to reduce land
degradation in the country as a whole.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
An alternative implementation set-up for the project was considered and rejected.
Alternatively to current implementation set up with the Ministry of Environment and
Tourism (MET) as the executing agency, the role of the executing agency could have been



11
ISDS
transferred from the MET to the Namibian NGO network organization of CBRNM
Support Organizations (NACSO). However, the MET did not agree with this set up. It
was also considered beneficial for the project to create a positive competitive environmenit
for NGOs and private sector partner. Implementation of several activities and packages of
activities will be outsourced by MET to NGO, and private sector partners. This
arrangement will also allow perfonnance control and transparency through upstream
reporting.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the bonrower to address safeguard issues
Overall, implementation arrangements to address safeguards issues under this project build to the
extend possible on existing policy, legal and institutional foundations. Namibia has achieved
considerable success in the implementation of Community-Based Natural Resource Managemenit
(CBNRM). This is largely due to the conducive overarching policy and planning framework and
the network of government, NGO, conser-vanicy and private sector partners involved.
Figure: Illustration of the overarching framework policies and laws, and the various
levels of planning that are required for the successful implementation of the project
National  cosrain  Namibias
RsettlementAenmn   EA PoICy>
PolicyAc
aamiban                  nWorld Bank
Management ) nservan  Management
as)
,.In  ) '\P   /           |   ) o
C:
-  r.j. r,.  /0\    \              /  \  \         |  °
{~~~ 0:,: ... .-*] > =|(
v      \%  ~~Pbn .   Income,       |t|-
*~~~  ~~~ p  -t  1-1l  o   ;-  .-          J
't.s'Irl-m    " C ll: J-  I      Iir, .... lrfin-nt
The safeguard compliance arrangements places considerable importance on the development
of conservancy management plans. These conservancy management plans must take
cognizance of the guidance provided by the Indigenous People's Development Plan (IPDP),
and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF). One of the most important components of
the conservancy management plans is the zonation of land use, since this determines whether
people will be resettled or whether their livelihoods will be detrimentally affected by loss of



12
ISDS
access to resources or social services. The safeguard documents thus underline the
importance to fully involve all stakeholders, especially vulnerable groups, in the development
of the conservancy management plans. By building consensus early and displaying good
governance at this strategic level, there should be fewer conflicts within the community and
less need for time-consuming and costly arbitration measures.
Sites for project intervention (focusing mainly on Component 2) and sites for fuiture
sub-projects to be financed under the CFF (Component 1) are not expected to be identified
during preparation. To qualily as a recipient uLnder the CFF, a community shall be a registered
conservancy within the ICEMA Project Area (thus having at least an initial managemelnt plan
in place). Community participation is key for preparing sub-projects proposals. Communities
will be given greater responsibility in planning their own actions for development as this
approach is more likely to create support for those actions and in the longer termn are more
likely to succeed due to sense of responsibility and ownership of the asset created. As such,
the Community Driven Development (CDD) model will be adopted which demands
community participation at eveiy stage of the sub-project cycle - from needs identification
and prioritization, preparation, appraisal (desk and field) and approval, implementation,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation to completion.
Component I - Ecosystem-based Income-Generating Activities. This component provides
for the creation, distribution and implementation of a generic checklist for safeguards to all
communities that fall under the project scope. The intent of the checklist is to ensure that
safeguards are upheld at the sub-project level.
Component 2 - Sustainable Ecosystem Management. Site selection and design of activities
within this component provides for incorporating safeguard elements, and for compliance
monitoring of those safeguards at a decentralized level.
Component 3 - Targeted.Central Institutional Support. All M&E activities coordinated
centrally will report on safeguard issues.
Component 4 - Project Managemenit Support. An annual safeguard report will be prepared
by the Project Office.
GRN is committed to ensuring that no involuntary resettlement occurs within this project and
that the rights of indigenous people will be protected consistent with the laws of GRN. GEF
funds will not be used for resettlement or direct compensation; where such funds are
required, GRN will use its own resources to finance such undertakings. If such funds are
unavailable from these resources, activities will be adjusted to remove the impacts that might
necessitate such compensation.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechaniisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders for ICEMA include the following: the communities of to-be-selected
conservancies, the community management structures, CBNRM   support organizations
(NGOs), Private sector service providers, the Ministry of Environment and Tourism.
Safeguard documents will be disseminated to target conservancies and other stakeholders via
existing information pathways, that is via CBNRM  field offices (and officers), througl



13
ISDS
CBNRM     Support Organizations to which implementation of project activities has been
out-sourced, and througlh the Conservanicy Association. Safeguard documents will further be
made available to the public on1 the MET's CBNRM website.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is detennined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] St. - Significant, cumulative and/or ilTeversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguar-d policies are triggered, but effects arc limited in their impact and are
techlnically and institutionially manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Filancial intermediaty projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard frameework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
issues.



14
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessmneni/Analysis/Man1agem7ent Planl:      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 12/19/2003    1/16/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             1/16/2004     1/26/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                             1/27/2004      1/27/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For categomy A projects)
Resetllement Action Plan/Franewolk-:.                       E,vpected     Actital
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 1/9/2004      1/22/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             1/16/2004     1/26/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                              1/27/2004     1/27/2004
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framnework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 1/15/2004     1/19/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            1/28/2004      1/28/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                              1/28/2004     1/28/2004
Pest Management Plan:                                       Exvpected     Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dani Safetyj Management Plan:                               Expected      Aclual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoSlhop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosture of any of the above documenits is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Christophe Crepin                           01/28/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Dan R. Aronson/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  John A. Boyle/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Namne                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomiias E. Walton                       01/28/2004
Sector Manager/Director       Richard G. Scobey                           01/28/2004



