Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053247 NA 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Integrated Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated June 4, 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053247 NA 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 2004 between REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(E) 
the Bank has received a letter dated December 3, 2003, from the 
Recipient describing the Recipient
’s vision, priorities and strategies for the National 
CBNRM Program (the Program), declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank for Currency Pool Loans, dated 
January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (m), (n), (o), (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
the second sentence of Sections 10.01 and 10.03; 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(j) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; and 
(vii) 
Section 10.04 is amended to read:  “Any dispute arising out of or 
relating to this Agreement which is not settled by agreement of 
the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance 
with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of 
this Agreement.  The place of arbitration shall be Washington, 
D.C.  In the event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall govern.”   
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a Conservancy (as hereinafter defined) or a 
nongovernmental organization (NGO) established and operating in accordance with the 
Recipient’s laws, and which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the CFFM (as 
Page  5
-
4
-
hereinafter defined) and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and as a result, 
has received, or is entitled to receive, a Micro-Grant (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“CBNRM” means Community-Based Natural Resources Management; 
(c) 
“CFF” means Community Funding Facility to be established under Part 
A.1 of the Project to finance Sub-Projects (as hereinafter defined); 
(d) 
“CFFM” means Community Funding Facility Manual, the manual 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Conservancies” means multiple-use zone on communal lands referred to 
in the Recipient’s Nature Conservation Ordinance (Ordinance 4 of 1975), and the Nature 
Conservation Amendment Act (Act 5 of 1996); 
(f) 
“ESA” means Environmental and Social Assessment which includes the 
Environmental Management Plan; 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on April 1 
and ending on March 31 the following year; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“IPDP” means Indigenous People Development Plan; 
(j) 
“MET” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment and Tourism; 
(k) 
“Micro-Grant” means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary of the CFF to finance a Sub-Project (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(l) 
“Micro-Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into with a 
Beneficiary for the provision of a Micro-Grant in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Namibia Dollar” or “N$” means the currency of the Recipient; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(n) 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(o) 
“PO” means the Project Office referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement and to be established by the Recipient within MET; 
(p) 
“Project Account” means the Account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the resettlement 
policy framework dated January 27, 2004, outlining the modalities for land taking and/or 
expropriation and resettlement; 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(s) 
“Sub-Projects” means any activity under Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement in respect of which a Micro-Grant has been, or may be provided. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount of seven million one hundred thousand United States Dollars (US$7,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Recipient central bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through its Ministry of Environment and Tourism with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and environmental 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
open an account in Namibian Dollar in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain the Project Account under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank until the completion of the Project; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount in N$ equivalent to 
US$65,000 (the Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at quarterly intervals, replenish the 
Project Account by the amounts required to finance the Recipient’s contribution for 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, as shall have been agreed upon between the Recipient and the Bank; 
and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under the 
Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the Effective Date 
falls, and including the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is made, have the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Special Account and the Project Account for each Fiscal 
Year, or other period agreed to by the Bank, audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year, or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, 
Page  9
-
8
-
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit  of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year or other period agreed to by the Bank, 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitations upon the Recipient progress reporting set 
forth in Part IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and uses of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the period covered by said report; 
showing separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets;  
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter;  thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
The Recipient has adopted and furnished to the Bank a PIM in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
The Recipient has appointed to the PO, a project coordinator, a 
procurement officer, and an accounting officer, all selected in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Recipient has adopted a monitoring and evaluation manual for the 
Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(d) 
The Recipient has established a financial management system for the 
Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
(e) 
The Recipient has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein 
the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement. 
(f) 
The Recipient has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Director General of the National Planning Commission of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
National Planning Commission 
Government Office Park 
Luther Street 
Private Bag 13356 
Windhoek 9000 
Namibia 
 
Tel. 264-61-283-4223 
 
 
Fax. 264-61-250751 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Page  12
-
11
-
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Pretoria South Africa, as of the day and year first above written. 
REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA 
By 
/s/ Immanuel Ngatjizeko 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
By 
                  /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
US$ Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)  Works 
310,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 
 
85%
of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(2)  Goods and Vehicles 
540,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 
 
85% of local  
 
expenditures  
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
1820,000 
75%  
 
(4) Training 
710,000 
100% 
 
(5) Micro-Grants 
1500,000 
100% 
 
(6) Operating Costs 
1720,000 
85% 
 
(7) Unallocated 
500,000 
 
________
TOTAL 7,100,000 
 
======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) the 
ter
m
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of contractual support staff salaries, social benefits, travel 
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance; 
vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance; materials and 
supplies; utilities and communications expenses; banking charges and insurance; but 
excluding the salaries of staff of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $250,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2004. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, works 
and services for firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) 
services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in promoting community-
based integrated ecosystem management that generates socioeconomic benefits for 
conservancies. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A:
Ecosystem-Based Income Generating Activities
1. 
Establishment and operation of a CFF to support community-based Sub-Projects 
aimed at promoting sustainable use of natural resources and ecosystems services, through 
provision of Micro-Grants. 
2. 
Development and implementation of conservancy business plans and Sub-
Projects through carrying out of feasibilities studies, promoting equitable sharing of costs 
and benefits of conservancy investment decisions, developing and disseminating best 
practices of sustainable livelihood options, contributing to improved participation in 
development planning processes at local and regional level, through provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
Part B:  Sustainable Ecosystem Management
1. 
Development and implementation of integrated conservancy management plans 
to guide resource management activities. 
2. 
Development and implementation of activities as proposed in integrated 
conservancy management plans aimed at ecosystem restoration, through provision of 
technical advisory services, acquisition of equipment, and works. 
3. 
Development of a local level monitoring and evaluation CBNRM system, 
through provision of technical advisory services and training. 
 
Part C:  Targeted Institutional Support
Page  16
-
15
-
1. 
Provision of policy, organizational, and financial support for MET to improve 
strategic planning and implementation of a national CBNRM program, through provision 
of technical advisory services. 
2. 
Provision of support to conservancies including provision of operational support, 
and training, and carrying out of workshops. 
3. 
(a) Improvement of CBNRM monitoring and evaluation by MET staff, through 
provision of technical advisory services and training; and (b) development and 
implementation of a CBNRM knowledge management program. 
Part D: Project Management 
Support to the PO to manage and supervise Project implementation, through 
provision of technical advisory services, acquisition of goods and equipment, training, 
and operational support. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2009. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of Namibia and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national 
Page  18
-
17
-
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured from the United Nations Development Programme-Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Part A.1 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, as described in the CFFM. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (b) the first three contracts for goods and works 
procured under the National Competitive Bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Page  19
-
18
-
Part A
:
General
C
onsultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4. 
Workshops and Training
Page  20
-
19
-
The Recipient shall carry out workshops and training on the basis of programs, 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall, 
inter alia
,
identify: (a) the 
workshop or training envisaged; (b) the personnel to attend the workshop or training; (c) 
the selection method of institutions conducting such workshops or training; (d) the 
duration of the proposed workshop or training; and (f) an estimate of the cost. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2,3, and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
Page  21
-
20
-
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
I. Project 
Oversight
1. 
The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, a PO and appoint thereto, in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the PIM, staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Bank, including a project coordinator, a procurement officer, a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist, and an accounting officer.  
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, a PIM, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, setting out: (i) details of all procurement and 
disbursement arrangements for the Project; (ii) the performance indicators for the Project; 
and (iii) such other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as shall be 
required for the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule 4 and the procedures set out in the PIM, and shall not, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
may adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project. 
II. 
Environmental and Social Assessment, Resettlement Policy Framework
and Indigenous People Development Plan
4. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
take all action which shall be necessary under the ESA and the IPDP, and 
shall ensure that the Environmental  and Social Assessment are formulated and 
implemented with the full participation of the local communities, and in accordance with 
the Environmental and Social Assessment, and in compliance with the applicable 
legislation of Namibia, to identify potential environmental and social adverse effects and 
offset, reduce and/or mitigate them, and that any acquisition of land or other assets or 
resettlement of persons is carried out in accordance with the RPF; and  
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the implementation of the 
Environment and Social Assessment and the RPF. 
III. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects
Page  23
-
22
-
5. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a CFFM in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank setting out details of: (a) Micro-Grants, Sub-Projects 
and Beneficiaries eligibility criteria; (b) arrangements and procedures for preparation, 
appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of Sub-Projects; (c) Sub-Projects 
procurement, financial management and disbursement arrangements; (d) Sub-Projects 
performance indicators; (d) standard formats for Micro-Grant Agreement; and (e) such 
other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as shall be required for 
the Sub-Projects. 
6. 
The Recipient shall provide Micro-Grants to finance Sub-Projects in accordance 
with procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the CFFM which shall include, but not 
be limited to the following: 
(a) 
The procedures in the PIM shall be followed in identifying, processing 
and approving Subprojects under the Project;  
 
(b) 
Sub-Projects shall be economically, financially and technically viable in 
accordance with standards set forth in the CFFM; and 
(c) 
Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, a Sub-Project shall be initiated by a 
Beneficiary and its cost shall not exceed the equivalent of 20% of the Micro-Grant 
Category (5) as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
7. 
A Micro-Grant shall be provided through a Micro-Grant Agreement to be entered 
into between the Recipient (through the Ministry of Environment and Tourism) and the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include the 
following: 
 (a) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the Sub-Project in accordance 
with the CFFM, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-Project; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that: (i) goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Micro-Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-Project; 
 
(c) 
the right of PO to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if the Bank 
shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in the Sub-
Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
Page  24
-
23
-
(d) 
the right of PO to obtain all information as PO or the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions of the 
Sub-Project; and 
 
(e) 
the right of PO to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use 
the proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Micro-Grant Agreement.  
IV. 
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
8. 
The Recipient shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
9. 
Semi annual Reviews
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 1, and April 30 of each year a six monthly report, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank, no later than one month after the date of such 
report, the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
10. Midterm 
Review
:
(a) 
The Recipient shall not later than 36 months after the Effective Date, 
carry out jointly with the Bank a midterm review, which shall cover among other things: 
 
(i) 
progress in meeting the Project’s objective; 
(ii) 
overall performance as measured against the performance 
indicators referred to in paragraph 9 (a) of this Schedule; and  
Page  25
-
24
-
(iii) 
evaluation of the Project activities performed, referred to in 
paragraph 9 (a) of this schedule. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall thereafter, act promptly and diligently in order to take, any 
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement, such measures as may have been agreed 
between the Recipient and the Bank in furtherance of the objective of the Project.  
 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $350,000 until  the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  28
-
27
-
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Recipient agrees that Project 
performance will be measured annually against the following key performance indicators 
for which baselines will be established six months after Effective Date, unless otherwise 
agreed by the Bank. 
1. Around 
25,000 
km
2
of
communal land under integrated sustainable ecosystem 
management as defined by the National CBNRM Program. 
2. 
80 % of targeted conservancies committees are effectively managing and 
deploying efficiently and sustainably their natural, human, financial and other resources 
according to the objectives of their conservancy plans. 
3. 
MET as CBNRM lead agency has established effective partnerships with other 
agencies and institutions, including local governments, NGOs and private sector to 
enable achievements of project objective in an efficient and effective manner. 
4. 
Populations of targeted threatened fauna and flora remain at current levels or 
have increased in targeted conservancies (5 species specified). 
5. 
Biological monitoring indicates that the integrity of the target sites remains 
secure with no significant change in habitat.
 
